Document of
The World Bank                    FILE LUPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2700a-SE
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 19, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia] duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:           CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                 CFAF 210
CFAF 1,000               US$ 4.76
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg):         2.2 pounds
1 metric ton:            0.98 long tons
1 hectare (ha):          2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km):        0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDS             Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
(National Development Bank)
DFC              Development Finance Company
FAC              Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(Fund for Assistance and Cooperation - French)
FED              Fonds Europeen de Developpement
(European Development Fund)
ONCAD            Office National pour la Cooperation et d'Assistance au
Developpement (National Cooperative Organization)
PPA (F)          Bank Project Preparation Advance (Facility)
RDC              Rural Development Center
SAED             Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta
du Fleuve Senegal
SERAS            Societe pour l'Exploitation des Ressources Animales du Senegal
(National Livestock Products Company)
SODEFITEX        Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
(Cotton Development Agency)
SODESP           Societe pour le Developpement de l'Elevage en la zone sylvo-
pastorale (Sylvo-pastoral Livestock Authority)
SODEVA           Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
(Groundnut Basin Extension Agency)
SOMIVAC          Societe de Mise en Valeur Agricole de la Casamance
(Casamance Development Authority)
SONED            Societe Nationale d'Etudes pour le Developpement
(National Consulting Company)
STN              Societe des Terres Neuves
(Land Settlement Agency)



FOR OFFILCIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND            ............................................         1
A.  Project Background ...... ................                            1
B.  The Rural Sector ...... ................                              1
C.  Sector Strategy and Issues .............................    5
II. THE PROJECT.                                                                  7
A.  Objectives and Summary Description           .7
B. Detail and Features   9. . ...... 9
C.  Cost Estimates .......         ..................................   13
D.  Proposed Financing ...          ..................................   14
E.  Prbcuremesnt and Disbursement ....................       ..          16
F.  Accounts and Audit ..................................    17
III.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                      .......  18
A.  Project ]3xecution .......         ........................... ....   18
B.  Capital Replacement Accounts .....            ......................   20
C. The Smal:L Rural Project Cycle for Unidentified
Operati.ons .     ...........................................   22
IV.     TECI1NOLOGICAI. AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS           ................   23
V.    FINANCIAL RESULTS          ..........................................   25
A.  Demand, Marketing and Prices ........... .. ..............   25
B.  Financial Implications for Beneficiaries ........ ........   26
C.  Financial Implications for Government ....            ..............   30
VI.     BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS   ..........................              31
A.  Project Benefits    ................... ....................   31
B.  Economic Analysis .          .....................................   32
VII.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....             .................   33
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited Senegal
in June/July 1979 comprising Messrs. David Steeds (Bank) and Bernaard Adikpeto,
E.R. de St. Vincent, ]Dominique Gentil and A. Robert Whyte (Consultants).
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXE S
1.      Terms of Reference                                                  35
2.      Supporting Tables and Charts                                      37-44
3.      Selected Documents and Data in the Project File                     45
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
2.1     Summary Project Costs                                               14
4.1     Key Technical Coefficients                                          25
4.2     Production Volume, Value and Unit Prices                            27
5.1     Financial Features, Rent and Cost Recovery Indices                  29
LIST OF SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS (ANNEX 2)
Table 1 Project Costs by Subproject and by Year                             37
2 Project Financing by Expenditure                                    38
3 Project Financing by Year                                           39
4 IDA Disbursement Categories and Schedule                            40
5 Beneficiaries Incomes                                               41
6 Government Cash Flow                                                42
7 Prices of Overseas-Traded Outputs                                   43
8 Economic Costs, Benefits and Rates of Return                        44
CHART
21019: Organization Chart
MAP
14615R: Location of Appraised Operations



SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      In September 1976, Government informed IDA of its interest in
a follow-up project to the Drought Relief Fund (Credit 446-SE). This project,
through a successfu;L and innovative financial procedure, had financed rural
water supplies, firebreak construction and fire-fighting equipment, and a
one-year livestock vaccination campaign.  Government and the Bmnk agreed that
a follow-up project should emphasize more directly-productive activities
rather than infrastructure, and thus more direct participation by the project
beneficiaries. Detailed preparation studies were started in MaLrch 1978,
financed by an advance of US$142,000 from the Project Preparation Facility
and undertaken by a national para-public consulting firm SONED, with assist-
ance from staff of the Ministry of Rural Development and the BaLnk's Regional
Mission for West Africa. The preparation phase was unusually long because of
difficulties in deciding on an appropriate institutional framework and on
effective means of providing guarantees for credit to be extended to bene-
ficiaries. Preparation was finally completed in early June 1979, and an
appraisal mission visited Senegal in June-July. The project now proposed
focusses on channelling funds and technical services to small groups of rural
people who undertake to provide labor, and some funds, for the development of
directly-productive activities of which five types have been appraised.
The project: would also include village water supplies, an allocation for
further directly-productive activities to be identified and prepared during
implementation, and management services.
B. The Rural Sector
1.02      Human Geography.  Senegal has a population of about 5.2 million of
whom nearly 4 million live in rural areas. The country covers 200,000 km2,
of which about 70% is suitable for rainfed crop production.  Irrigation
potential is substantial, in excess of 200,000 ha along the Senegal Valley
alone. About 60% of the rural population is concentrated within about 150 km
of Dakar in the central Groundnut Basin; in this area, which covers 25% of the
country, local population densities often exceed 100/km2 and there is little
scope for further expansion of extensive farming.
1.03      Significance for the Economy.  Despite poor soils and erratic
rainfall, and although its contribution to GDP is much lower than in most
countries of West Africa, the rural sector remains a key sector in the
Senegalese economy. In the last five years, the sector accounted for about
35% of GDP; of this contribution crops accounted for 60%, livestock 18%,



- 2 -
fishing 15%, and forestry 7%; much of the rest of GDP is in the form of
processing and trade of commodities from the rural sector. The sector also
produces about half of export income (of which groundnuts 90%) and employs
about 70% of the labor force. In contrast to GDP per head of $?340 in 1978,
primary sector income per head of the rural population was only $150. The
relative poverty level in rural areas was about US$120. Almost all rural
sector output is produced by small-scale units, though there is some diversity
in farm size, productivity and income.
1.04      Policy-making and Technical Institutions.  The Ministry of Rural
Development has overall responsibility for development of the sector but
several other ministries, notably Human Affairs, Public Works and Water, and
the new Ministry of Forestry and Inland Fisheries, each have some responsibili-
ties for rural development. While the Ministries are responsible for policy,
responsibility for execution has over the last decade been increasingly
entrusted to regional development agencies rather than to Government Departments;
in practice, the distinction between policy and execution is not clear cut,
with the agencies much involved in investment planning and the Departments
having retained many field staff, primarily in the Rural Development Centers
(RDC - para. 1.06).
1.05      Regional Development Agencies.  These agencies include SAED for
irrigation in the Senegal Valley, SODEFITEX for extension work and cotton
marketing in the south-east, SODESP for extension work and cattle marketing in
the semi-arid north-center, SODEVA for extension work in the Groundnut Basin,
SOMIVAC for planning and project execution in Casamance, and STN for land
settlement, primarily in the south-east. These agencies are primarily concerned
with provision of services for crop production, but they are increasingly
providing services to other subsectors, notably cattle production. These
agencies' staffs are well paid and equipped relative to Government Departments,
but the agencies' financial soundness is unduly dependent on executing foreign-
financed projects; only SODEFITEX earns significant revenues. The agencies
have different degrees of financial and managerial autonomy. This is due in
part to their status as wholly Government-owned enterprises (SAED, SODESP,
SOMIVAC, STN) or mixed enterprises with minority private ownership (SODEFITEX,
SODEVA) but also to top management's style and willingness to take initiatives.
The agencies are not mere executing bodies and they all undertake investment
planning; SAED, SODEVA and SOMIVAC have set up well-staffed Planning Units,
each of which benefits from considerable foreign technical assistance. During
preparation of the proposed project, each agency was invited to and did in
fact make detailed proposals for small rural projects. Some proposals were
rejected, or deferred for further work, during preparation and appraisal as
the selection criteria became more clearly defined. The project, as now
proposed, would include two operations for which technical services would be
provided by regional development agencies, namely SAED for small rice peri-
meters and SOMIVAC for small banana perimeters.
1.06      Government Departments and Rural Development Centers.  Alongside
the broadening of the executive responsibilities of the regional development
agencies, some Government Departments have retained considerable though no



- 3 -
longer exclusive responsibility for execution. These Departments include
Fisheries, Forestry, Livestock and Water Supply. The Departments that no
longer have important responsibilities for field execution, notably Agricul-
ture, also retain a nationwide network of field staff. At the local district
level, staff from these Departments as well as from the Ministry of Human
Affairs are physically and organizationally grouped into Rural Development
Centers (RDCs). Physically, the RDCs comprise shared office, warehouse and
transport f'acilities, and staff housing, and have been installed in the 90
districts nationwide.  Organizationally, each RDC has a fulltime Chief, a
generalist rather than a technician, in most cases a graduate of the National
School of Applied Economics.  The technical staff of the RDC report both to
the Chief and to their superiors in their technical departments; the Chief
reports to the national Executive Secretary of the RDCs who is 'housed in the
Ministry of Rural Development and reports directly to the Minis ter. Although
based on the attractive idea of the coordinated provision of a jpackage of
technical knowledge at the district level, the RDCs have been gienerally
ineffective and, in contrast to the regional development agenci,es, increasingly
starved of operating funds. Now, the RDCs comprise about 500 juanior technical
staff whose abilitiçs are not being fully utilized despite the lheavy fixed
cost.  Leadership of preparation of the proposed project was assigned to the
Executive Secretary of the RDCs who invited proposals from the local RDC
chiefs as well as from other agencies including Government techmical Departments.
Many proposals, of differing detail and quality, were received and most were
rejected or deferred during the preparation and appraisal processes. In view
of the unequal quality of proposals, particularly from RDC chief;s, two-week,
Government-sponsored courses in project identification and preparation were
held for them in mid-1979 as a first step towards increasing their effective
participation in the small rural project cycle. The project as now proposed
would include one operation for which technical services would be provided by
RDCs, namely small vegetable perimeters; it would include two operations, in
fishing and beekeeping, for which technical services would be provided by
individual Government Departments, and a third operation, village water supplies,
which would be wholly undertaken by the Water Supply Department..
1.07      BNDS and ONCAD.  The National Development Bank (BNDS),! established
in 1964, assists development projects in agriculture, livestock, fisheries,
small industries, housing and handicrafts, and provides funds for agricultural
inputs supplied in kind to cooperatives. BNDS has not actively sought to make
loans directly to small rural producers since it considers the guarantees
offered too uncertain and the costs of debt collection too high.  With assist-
ance under Credit 140-SE, the Bank helped improve BNDS' financial and account-
ing procedures, and ithese aspects of its operations are now satisfactory.
The National Cooperaitive Organization (ONCAD), established in 1966, promotes
the establishment of cooperatives, procures and delivers farm inputs on credit
provided by BNDS and recovers such credit, and has organized nat:ionally the
marketing of groundnuts and cereals, including imported rice. ONCAD's overall
performance has been poor; in particular, its financial situation has become
critical due to poor management and inadequate financial control. Although it
has not made cooperalives into financially viable institutions or entities
that could mobilize :Local initiatives and support for development activities,



it has nonetheless done a reasonable job, albeit at high cost, of delivering
farm inputs and implements: ONCAD has distributed nearly 100,000 tons of
fertilizer per year since 1975. The project would make use of BNDS' estab-
lished financial channels and, for the two operations for which private input
supplies are inadequate, ONCAD's farm input procurement capability.
1.08      Local Government Institutions.  In 1972, Government launched an
Administrative Reform program to encourage greater popular participation in
the political process. The Reform specifically provided for local decision-
making on allocation of local tax revenues and on allocation of land. The
local decision-making bodies were to be elected councils for Rural Communities,
newly-defined local government units comprising about 10,000 people. One of
the few attempts to reorganize pre-independence structures of local government
in West Africa, this reform has now been implemented in six of the eight
Regions of the country, with the remainder scheduled to be completed by
1982. Despite the success of the reform, Government considers that it would
be premature for Rural Communities to, for instance, guarantee loans made to
small groups of Community members; during project preparation, this was one of
the means examined for provision of guarantees for credit to be extended to
project beneficiaries. The project would nonetheless work through Rural
Communities in a manner that would help to strengthen them. Their elected
councils would have to consider and pass judgment on all requests for demarca-
tion of land; for all requests for finance from small groups of producers for
as yet unidentified operations, the council would be the first forum in which
the request would be considered and questions of land allocation would be
resolved on that occasion. In addition, since the councils are devoting about
60% of their budgets to construction of traditional wells that are shallow and
short-lived, the village water supplies component would concentrate on improved
supervision of such construction so that such wells could subsequently be
deepened and thereby rendered permanent.
1.09      Managerial Institutions.  An increasingly large number of small
rural projects is being financed by bilateral and international agencies,
particularly by non-government organizations. To date, these operations
have been carried out or supervised by various units in different Ministries,
with the result that there has been some duplication of effort and, even,
competition between operations or their sponsors. There has been a growing
diversity of approach to planning and execution of the operations, parti-
cularly in respect of the participation in cash or in kind required of the
beneficiaries, and the extent of the financial and/or technical assistance
provided by the sponsors. To overcome these problems, Government has
grouped the planning and management of all small rural projects under a single
Department established, in January 1980, in the Ministry for Human Affairs;
the new Department of Small Rural Projects, through which the project now
proposed would be managed, would have the power of approval for all small
rural projects, and particularly the terms and conditions of financing by the
sponsor and of participation by the beneficiaries. The new Department would
include the Rural Projects for Youth program, presently administered by the
Ministry of Human Affairs, and the existing Small Rural Projects Section of
the Ministry of Planning.



C. Sector Strategy and Issues
1.10      Objectives and Strategies.  Government's various statements of
objectives for the rural sector, and the apparent objectives underlying major
policies, have included to: (a) socialize rural society; (b) increase home-
grown food and make output less dependent on rainfall; (c) diversify exports;
(d) increase rural incomes and restrain urban-rural income differences; and
(e) generate public savings from the rural sector.  Given changing priori-
ties assigned to these objectives, it has been difficult to devise a coherent
strategy, policies have been inconsistent, and many projects have had dis-
appointing results. The strategies adopted by Government include: (i)
increasing irrigated and rainfed cereals output; (ii) putting increasing
emphasis oln large-scale irrigation; (iii) promoting cotton and confectionary
groundnuts in addition to yield increases of groundnuts for oil; and (iv)
encouraging migration to the Senegal River Delta and to Eastern Senegal
Region.
1.11      Issues.  There are at present four main issues in the rural sector.
First, output from rainfed farming is stagnating since land intensifi-
cation thermes as presently defined are not being adopted. Government now
acknowledges the need to define improvements in respect of types of farming
systems (an agricultural research project focussing on farming systems was
appraised in December 1979), and has commissioned a study on farming incentives
that will f'or the first time examine in depth the problem of urban/rural terms
of trade. Second, the performance of ONCAD and the regional development
agencies has been disappointing, but Government recognizes that important
changes in their top management and structure are required to make them
effective; some steps have recently been taken in this direction. Following
agreement reached between Government, the Bank and other financiers of projects
executed by SAED, thLat agency is beginning to implement a reorganization plan
to decentralize decision-making, and to improve financial planning. Other
steps are being considered, notably for ONCAD, SODEFITEX and SODEVA. Third,
provision for re--~urrent cost financing is inadequate and the scope for increas-
ing public revenue is severely limited. Fourth, Government has recently
tightened up on agricultural credit, refusing it for the 1979/80 season to
cooperatives that had not paid at least 65% of all repayments due; also, the
possibility of levying user charges is being seriously examined. Fifth, the
cooperative movement as presently constituted has not developed local farmers'
organizations capable of organizing joint endeavors. In the current debate on
how to encourage grass-roots organizations, there is increasing recognition
that approaches other than cooperatives should be explored.
1.12      Previous Bank Group Involvement.  Bank group lending for the rural
sector has amounted to US$74.3 million, of which US$67.3 million through IDA
credits, for 12 operations as follows: (a) three projects for engineering and
construction of polders and large irrigation perimeters in the Senegal River
Delta were financed by Credits 350-SE (US$4.5 million, 1973), S-18-SE (US$1
million 1975), and 775-SE (US$20 million, 1978); (b) two projects for agri-
cultural credit financed by Loan 584-SE (US$3.5 million) and Credit 140-SE



(US$6.0 million) in 1969, and by Credit 404-SE (US$8.2 million, 1973);
(c) two projects for development of rice cultivation in the southern Casamance
Region under Credits 252-SE (US$3.7 million, 1971), and 647-SE (US$6.3
million, 1976); (d) two projects for settlement of farm families in the
thinly-populated Eastern Senegal Region under Credits 254-SE (IJS$1.4
million, 1971), and 578-SE (US$2.0 million, 1975); (e) the Sine Saloum
agricultural development project to intensify and diversify cropping in the
southern Groundnut Basin financed by Loan 1113-SE (US$7 million) and Credit
549-SE (US$7 million) in 1975; (f) a livestock development pro:ject in Eastern
Senegal Region financed by Credit 633-SE (US$4.6 million, 1976); and (g) an
emergency drought relief program under Credit 446-SE (US$3.0 million, 1973).
1.13      Performance Evaluation.  Project performance has been patchy,
management effectiveness deteriorating, and expected benefits increasingly
unrealized. Project Completion Reports have been issued for five projects:
First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 584-SE and Credit 140-SE); First
Casamance Rice Project (Credit 252-SE); Terres Neuves I Resettlement Project
(Credit 254-SE); Drought Relief Project (Credit 446-SE); and Senegal River
Polder Project (Credit 350-SE). The main shortcomings mentioned in the
Project Performance Audit Reports for these projects concern (i) the quality
of engineering design and supervision of construction of project works, (ii)
marketing, unremunerative prices and input distribution, and (iii) the need to
investigate more thoroughly the social aspects involved in project planning
and execution. While these lessons are not generally relevant to the small,
discrete operations that constitute the project now proposed, the experience
acquired with rural development fund-type projects in West Africa, including
the Drought Relief Project, is of relevance. 1/ Accordingly, particular
attention was paid during appraisal to measures to ensure souncd engineering
preparation and supervision of small rural works, to arrangements for financing
recurrent costs of small rural projects, and to delivery of effective technical
assistance to beneficiaries during and after construction. Senegal's Drought
Relief Project was, moreover, more successfully executed than similar projects
undertaken in the other five Sahelian countries. The quality of supervision
of well construction was, however, inadequate; the village water supplies
component in the proposed project has been designed to overcome this failing.
1.14      Sector Lending Strategy.  Future Bank Group investments in the
rural sector would continue to give priority to rainfed agriculture in the
welL-watered southern one-third of the country and to irrigation along the
Senegal River. Since results from existing projects have not been as good as
ant:icipated, future investments in follow-up projects would include appropriate
I/ Audit Report on Upper Volta Rural Development Fund (Credit 317-UV), Mali
Drought Relief Fund (Credit 443-MLI), Mauritania Drought Relief Fund
(Credit 444-MAU), Niger Drought Relief Fund (Credit 441-NIR), Upper Volta
Drought Relief Fund (Credit 442-UV), as well as Senegal Drought Relief
Fund (Credit 446-SEN): ongoing experience with Upper Volta Rural Develop-
ment Fund II (Credit 640-UV), Chad Rural Projects Fund (Credit 664-CD),
Cameroon Rural Development Fund (Credit 723-CM), and Chad 'Sahelian Zone
Project (Credit 739-CD).



measures to improve performance such as: decentralizing executive authority,
promoting farmers' organizations, and undertaking more practical staff training.
Investment opportunities will also be explored in livestock, forestry and
fishing, particularly where the Bank has a contribution to make by way of new
technology and/or improved institutions. Alongside this classic approach,
new-style Lnvestments will also be considered in cases where Government is
manifestly committed to the project concept, as for the project now proposed
and for the nutrition project that is currently under preparation. Other
projects being prepared include a rainfed agricultural development project in
Eastern Senegal Region and part of Casamance Region, a further irrigation
project along the Senegal River, and a national project for reafforestation.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
2.01       Objectives.  The broad objectives of the proposed project are to
encourage local initiatives and thereby broaden popular participation in
decision-making on investments in the rural sector, and to undertake only
those smalL rural projects that are manifestly in the interest of the bene-
ficiaries (para 2.03). The main specific objectives are to render small
groups of producers creditworthy in the judgment of the local banking system,
and to strengthen the existing Senegalese capacity for identification and
preparation of smal] rural projects.  Increased crop and animal production is
a necessary but incidental project objective.
2.02       Summary Description.  The project, to be implemented over four years
by a Project Management Unit in the Department of Small Rural Projects in the
Ministry oiE Human Af fairs, would include the following specific items:
(a) construction, equipment and technical services for 30 peri-
me, ers of 20 ha each for irrigation of rice in the Galenka
Valley in Fleuve Region;
(b) construction, equipment and technical services for 18 peri-
meters of 2 ha each for irrigation of vegetables in Thies
and northern Sine Saloum Regions;
(c) construction, equipment and technical services for 15 peri-
meters of 4 ha each for irrigation of bananas at Sedhiou in
Casamance Region;
(d) construction, equipment and technical services for beekeeping
and processing of honey and wax for four groups of beekeepers
at Bignona in Casamance Region;
(e)  provision of 20 small fishing boats with outboard motors
and ancillary equipment in Louga Region;



- 8 -
(f) provision of equipment for an open well brigade, construc-
tion of 50 new wells and deepening of 50 other wells in Sine
Saloum Region;
(g) unidentified activities;
(h) provision of a management structure with the required techni-
cal and administrative staff and logistical support, including
the capability for identifying, preparing, appraising and
evaluating small rural projects.
The Project's directly-productive, appraised activities, namely operations (a)
through (e) above, would benefit some 2,400 families or 24,000 people, nearly
all presently having incomes at or below the relative poverty level of CFAF
26,500 (US$120 - para 1.03). Assuming a similar cost per beneficiary for the
unidentified activities, some of which would likely be expansions of appraised
operations, the total number of beneficiaries would be 4,200 families or
42,000 people. In addition, about 100,000 people would benefit from permanent
village water supplies.
2.03      Selection Criteria and Initiatives.  The criteria used for select-
ion of the appraised operations were that they be: (a) directly productive;
(b) financially and economically profitable, with a net income per labor-day
at full development of at least CFAF 275 (US$1.31), being 25% more than the
nationwide average rural income, and an internal economic rate of return of at
least 10%; and (c) requested by, and manifestly in the interest of, a group or
groups of producers. These criteria would be retained during project imple-
mentation for preparation and appraisal of currently unidentified activities.
An exception to the criteria has been made for village water supplies, because
of the difficulty in assessing the indirect benefits of this investment in
addition to reducing costs, incurred by Rural Communities and individuals, for
water transport to villages in the dry season. The extent to which the
appraised operations have been requested by groups of producers is in all
cases imperfect since the initiative for identification and preparation came
largely from technical services - regional development agencies, Government
technical departments and RDCs. Their initiatives did, however, reflect ideas
expressed in meetings between field staff and producers.  Once the proposed
project is underway, one of the main tasks of project management will be to
diffiuse information on project selection criteria and the procedures (para.
3.10) to be followed from initial conception through to appraisal. Producers
can" moreover, be expected to propose project ideas more readily once there is
a tangible body in place with funds available; until now, there have been no
clear procedures, little diffusion of information and only vague prospects of
obtaining funds. It is expected that the allocation for unidentified opera-
tions would be used for small rural projects in which the producers had taken
the key initiatives. The same tests of manifest interest on the part of the
beneficiaries would apply, namely: (a) a commitment to provide all unskilled
labor during construction with no remuneration, either in cash or in kind;
(b) lump sum cash payments into special Capital Replacement Accounts (para.
3.07) prior to the initial installation of medium-term assets; and (c) under-
takings to provide for replacement of such assets by making an annual payment,



- 9 -
calculated at replacement cost, into each group's Capital Replacement Account.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the three above criteria
and the three tests of manifest interest would be followed in selection of
additional small rural projects to be financed from the allocation for un-
identified activities. Paragraphs 2.04-2.15 describe the key features of the
six appraised operations; the general location of each operation has been
fixed (see Map) but not all specific locations of particular subprojects
have been decided; such locations would be determined by project management
depending on the interest manifested by particular groups of producers.
B. Detail and Features
2.04      Small Rice Perimeters.  Along the Galenka, a tributary of the
Senegal River, 30 groups of producers would be assisted to construct and
operate irrigation perimeters with full water control. There are about
12,000 people in the area presently cultivating millet on the sand dunes in
the rainy season and sorghum and other crops in the valley bottoms as the
floods recede in the dry season.   Production and income vary wLth the rains
(annual average: 350 mm) and the floods, and there is much emigration
from the area. An operation similar to that proposed for the Gialenka was
started in 1975 at Matam, about 200 km upstream on the Senegal River, where
there are now 36 perimeters being cultivated by 700 farmers; the success
achieved there prompted demand both from the people and the regional develop-
ment agency, SAED, for the Galenka perimeters.
2.05      The project would provide a small base for SAED operations at
Thille Boubacar and, at each of the 30 perimeters: (a) soil and topographical
surveys; (b) construction of the water distribution network, with earth canals
to individual plots 'but all structures in reinforced concrete; (c) installa-
tion of a 15 HP pump on a floating base; (d) plantation of a 2 ha equivalent
woodlot with half as windbreaks; and (e) inputs for 20 ha of rainy season
paddy, and 6 ha of dry season crops of which 4 ha maize and 2 ha rice (the
targeted cropping intensity is thereby 1.3, which is already being surpassed
at Matam). SAED would be responsible for undertaking the surveys (an addi-
tional PPF advance of US$20,000 was approved in January 1980 to finance this
effort), supervising the construction, providing technical assistance during
initial farming operations, holding a stock of pump spare parts for sale,
training pump operators in routine maintenance, delivering inputs on behalf of
ONCAD, and purchase of paddy and tomatoes on behalf of the processing plants
located downstream. SAED is already performing these functions satisfactorily
at Matam and elsewhere along the Senegal Valley, and would assign the follow-
ing staff to Thille Boubacar: an agricultural engineer, an accountant, a
mechanic, a purchasing officer, a surveyor, five extension workers and support
staff. Under the le;adership of the agricultural engineer, and iLn the framework
of SAED's overall decentralization, this team would be given suifficient opera-
tional autonomy to work effectively; an assurance to this effect- was obtained
at negotiations. Producer groups would be responsible for proviiding all
unskilled labor for perimeter construction, performing all farmiing operations,
paying for operation and maintenance of their pump (for which, fiollowing
the Matam experience., the project would provide no seasonal credit), and
providing in cash and in kind for maintenance of the water distribution



- 10 -
system. Land allocation within the perimeters would be decided by the group
of producers; if the Matam experience is followed as is expected, each group
would have about 40 mrembers who would each receive 0.5 ha. The construction
cost per ha would be CFAF 470,000 (US$2,200), or about half the costs gen-
erally incurred on large irrigated perimeters. Further detailed features are
at Working Paper 1.A and costs are detailed at Working Paper 5, Table 1.
2.06      Small Vegetable Perimeters.  In the area bounded by Thies, Joal and
Fatick, about 80 km from Dakar, 18 groups of producers would be assisted to
construct and operate small irrigated vegetable perimeters, with water
to be supplied by manually-powered pumps erected on open wells. There is
already much vegetable development in and between the subproject area and
Dakar; irrigation techniques include water extraction by hand from shallow
hand-dug wells in depressions, manual as well as mechanical pumping from
open wells, diesel-electric submersible pumps on perimeters of about 20 ha, as
well as large commercial units. Performance of mechanical pumps has, however,
been disappointing, and labor productivity with manually-operated pumps that
can deliver only 2.5 m3/hour when powered by four men, has been too low to
sustain much interest.  There is now much demand from groups of small pro-
ducers for an improved method of water extraction for irrigating vegetables.
Recent improvements in the design of manually-operated pumps have increased
delivery, with power provided by four men, to 5 m3/hour at 15 m depth.
Commercial nanufacture of one such pump has just begun at Thies and this is
the type of pump that would initially be made available under the project.
Since further technical advances in stall-scale pumping can be expected, no
single type of pump would be imposed.
2.07      The project would provide modest additional facilities for the
existing RDCs that would provide technical services to the operation and,
at each of the 18 perimeters: (a) two open wells of about 20 m depth each
equipped with two manually-operated pumps; (b) two large and six small water
storage tanks in reinforced concrete, constructed to existing standard
designs, connected by plastic piping; and (c) a store, tools, fencing and
windbreaks. Water would be carried by hand from the storage tanks to the
crops. Inputs per 2 ha, on which the main crops would be potatces, onions,
tomatoes, cabbage and beans, with a targeted cropping intensity of 1.5 after
three years, would be purchased by farmers from private suppliers who are
well represented in the area; similarly, outputs would be sold to the well-
established network of private buyers. RDCs would be responsible for supervi-
sion of construction and providing technical assistance during initial
farming operations. Given the existing underutilization of staff, no addi-
tional managerial or accounting staff would be required. Extension agents
would, however, be reassigned so that there would be one agent per three
perimeters. Producer groups would be responsible for proxriding all unskilled
labor for construction, perforrming all farming operations and paying for
maintenance of their pump and water distribution facilities. Land allocation
within the perimeters would be decided by the group of producers and it is
expected that each group would have about 20 members who would each receive
0.1 ha. In contrast to low operating costs, construction cost per ha would be
CFAF 5.2 million (US$25,000) due, above all, to provision of one well and two
pumps per ha. Further detailed features are at Working Paper 1.B and costs
are detailed at Working Paper 5, Table 2.



- il -
2.08    Small Banane Perimeters.  In the Sedhiou District, 15 groups of
producers would be assisted to construct and operate irrigated banana
perimters, with water supplied by mechanical pumping. Water would be
obtained not from the Casamance River, because the dry-season salt water
intrusion penetrates too far upstream, but by pumping from depressions.
Although the Casamance climate is marginal for banana cultivation, the crop
has developed over the last 10 years through private investment in small
perimeters, FED-assisted perimeters of about 10 ha, and an ongoing FED-
assisted perimeter of 80 ha. There is now much demand from groups of pro-
ducers for further investments, but in smaller-scale perimeters.
2.09    The project would provide at each of the 15 perimeters:  (a) an 8
HP pump delivering 50 m3/hour; (b) a water distribution system in plastic
piping up to tertiary earth canals; (c) a banana sorting and treatment center,
and store; (d) mater ials and supplies for the nursery and initial plantation;
and (e) inputs for upkeep of the plantation and prepartion and packaging of
bananas for sale. SOMIVAC would be responsible for supervising construction
and initial plantation of bananas, providing technical assistance during
initial operations, and delivering inputs on behalf of ONCAD. At its Sedhiou
office, SOMIVAC would provide an agronomist, a rural engineer, and three
extension worker; purchasing, accounting and mechanical services would be
supplied by existing staff, and technical expertise in banana cultivation
would be on call in the nearby FED-financed perimeters. Producer groups would
be responsïble for providing all unskilled labor required for perimeter
construction, performing all farming operations, paying for operation and
maintenance of their pump (for which no seasonal credit would be provided),
and providing in cash and in kind for maintenance of the water distribution
system and the banana sorting and treatment center. Land allocation within
the perimeters wouldL be decided by the group of producers and it is expected
that each group would have about 40 members who would each receive 0.1 ha.
The construction cost per ha would be CFAF 2.4 million (US$11,000), of which
34% for the sorting and treatment center. Further detailed features are at
Working Paper 1.C and costs are detailed at Working Paper, Table 3.
2.10    Beekeeping.  In the Bignona District, four groups of producers would
be assisted to instaîll and operate 500 hives, and four honey and wax extraction
facilities. Collection of wild honey and wax is a traditional occupation in
the subpro ject area and, in the last decade, some modern hives have been
installed as well as an extraction center with quality control and packaging
facilities, managed by the Livestock Department.  There is now great demand
for more oif the modern, locally-designed and constructed hives and, from
groups of producers, for more honey and wax extraction facilities.
2.11       The project would provide for:  (a) installation of four honey and
wax extraction centers for four groups of 25 beekeepers; (b) installation of
five hives per beekeeper and provision of mesh frames, fumigators and protec-
tive clothiLng; and (c) rehabilitation of the existing extraction center which
would serve as a regional quality control and packaging center.  The Livestock
Department in CasamaLnce Region would be responsible for installing the
facilities, and would provide technical assistance for both production and
marketing. Two beekeeping specialists on the headquarters staff of the



- 12 -
Livestock Department would be on call for technical expertise. Producer
groups would be responsible for performing all beekeeping and processing
operations, and for paying for maintenance of their extraction facilities.
Detailed costs are at Working Paper 5, Table 4.
2.12      Fishing.  At Lampoul and Tare on the coast of Louga Region, 20
groups of five young men would be provided with fishing canoes equipped with
20 HP outboard motors and fishing equipment. There are several hundred
fishermen in the subproject area but they did not benefit from the recent
Canadian-assisted five-year project for motorization of traditional canoes.
Nationwide, over 70% of the 6,500 fishing canoes are now equipped with
outboard motors and a further Canadian-assisted project, just starting, would
improve fish distribution facilities.  In early 1979, Government funded
provision of four motorized canoes to groups of young fishermen at Tare; the
demand to participate has been overwhelming, mainly due to the organizing
abilities of the recently-created Provincial Fisheries Department at Louga.
2.13      The project would provide to each group of five young men:  (a) a
canoe equipped with a 20 HP outboard motor; and (b) a complete set of nets.
At each of Tare and Lampoul, the project would provide common drying stands,
salt tanks and other processing equipment. The Fisheries Department in Louga
Region would be responsible for installing the facilities, and would provide
technical assistance for both processing and marketing. Producer groups would
be responsible for all fishing and processing operations, and for paying for
maintenance of their boats, nets and processing equipment. Detailed costs
are at Working Paper 5, Table 5.
2.14      Village Water Supplies.  In Sine Saloum Region, the Water Supply
Department's existing open well brigade at Kaolack would be strengthened to
enable it to construct 50 new open wells and deepen at least 50 other wells.
In contrast to the Drought Relief Project (Credit 446-SE) which financed well
construction in five regions, works would be concentrated in one region,
and in only one district per year; this would permit improved quality control
of work, whereby the aquifer would be properly penetrated by 6 m, and improved
pace of work since plant and equipment could be maintained more readily. In
the long term, however, the role of the open well brigade would increasingly
be: (a) supervision of rural water supply works executed by private con-
tractors; and (b) execution of works that are difficult to contract out,
such as major repairs, deepening of existing wells, maintenance and, even,
construction of new wells in isolated cases where contract lots are unattrac-
tive. Given the substantial volume but poor technical specifications
of work now being undertaken in rural water supply, particularly by Rural
Communities, the open well brigade could aid in improving the effectiveness of
those investments. Adoption of these long-term objectives would be phased in
after taking account of the acquired experience of the staff of the open well
brigade; this has so far been primarily in new well construction.
2.15      The project would therefore provide for the construction of new
open wells and the deepening of existing unfinished open wells but, increas-
ingly over the implementation period, also for supervision and subsequent
deepening of wells constructed by small contractors with financing from Rural
Communities. Such contractors do not possess the equipment required to



- 13 -
penetrate the aquifer beyond the depth in which a man can stand. Specifi-
cally, the project would provide:  (a) additional offices at the Kaolock base
and establishment of' a small records center at Dakar; (b) vehicles, plant and
equipment; (c) materials and supplies for well construction and deepening; (d)
additional staff for repair and maintenance of plant and equipment, and for
on-site supervision of well-digging teams. The Water Supply Department,
through its Kaolack base, would be responsible for execution, and the project
would finance the services of a works manager, internationally-recruited in
agreement with IDA, to be responsible for sound technical execution of all
operations (Terms of Reference are at Annex 1). Further detailed features are
at Working Paper 2.A and costs are detailed at Working Paper 5, Table 7. The
critical factors for selecting a type of well for particular clusters of
villages are discussed at para 5.07, as part of the financial implications.
2.16       Urnidentified Activities.  During project preparation, many promising
ideas for small rural projects were considered and rejected, sometimes for
conclusive reasons but often because of incomplete preparation. The files
contain many proposals that are not yet appraisable, quite apart from the
probable strong demand for more of the kinds of operations that have been
appraised. The proposed Credit would therefore provide for a large allocation
(30% of total project costs) for financing additional directly-productive
small rural projects to be identified, prepared and appraised during implemen-
tation, foilowing the procedures specified for the small rural projects cycle
at para. 3.10.
2.17       Management Structure.  The Project Management Unit would include, in
addition to the project manager, four technical specialists of whom two would
be expatriates, an accountant, three bookkeepers and support staff. The
project would provide office accommodation, vehicles, equipment and furniture,
and would aLlso include accounting and audit services, consultants and materials
for training, office operating facilities, and staff travel.
C. Cost Estimates
2.18       Total project costs for the four-year disbursement period beginning
mid-1980 are estimated at CFAF 3 billion (US$14.1 million) with a foreign
exchange component of 52%. Costs exclude identifiable taxes and duties
from which the project would be exempt; confirmation of Government's agreement
on this point was obtained at negotiations. Base cost estimates reflect
July 1980 prices, the expected date of Credit effectiveness. Physical contin-
gencies include 10% on civil works and equipment but no provision for staff or
inputs since specifications and quantities are clearly establis'hed. Expected
price increases are compounded at 9% for 1980, 8% for 1981, and 7% per year
thereafter; total expected price increases amount to 17% of base project cost
estimates, excluding the provision for unidentified activities. The project
would provide for 12 man-years of technical assistance at a unit cost of
US$80,000, of which about 60% in salaries. Costs are detailed at Annex 2,
Table 1 and summarized at Table 2.1.



- 14 -
TABLE 2.1 SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS
SHARE
OF
TOTAL FOREIGN
LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL  LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL  COST   EXCHANGE
----(CFAF Million)---  -----(US$ '000)            (%)      (%)
Small Rice Perimeters            212      221     433  1,010    1,052   2,062   15           51
Small Vegetable Perimeters        94     119      213    448        567   1,015    7         56
Small Banana Perimeters          106      105     211    505        500   1,005    7         50
Beekeeping                        13       il       24     62        52      114    1        44
Fishing                           12       10       22     57        48      105    1        44
Village Water Supplies           150.    208      358    714        990   1,704   12         55
Project Management               196      199     395    933        948   1,881   13         50
Unidentified Activities          445      482      927  2,119    2,298   4,417   31          52
Refunding PPA                     15       16      31      71        76   _ 147    1         50
Base Cost Estimate             1,243   1,371   2,614  5,919    6,531  12,450   88            52
Physical Contingencies            29       36       65    138       172      310    2        55
Expected Price Increases         135     146      281    643        697   1,340   10         52
Total Project Cost             1,407   1,553   2,960  6,700    7,400  14,100  100            52
D.  Proposed Financing
2.19       It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$11 million be rnade to
Government on standard terms to finance 75% of project costs. Additional
external financing would be provided by French technical assistance, which
would finance one technical specialist over the four-year project period, at
an estimated cost of US$0.4 million. Total external financing would be
US$11.4 million, or 81% of total costs, covering 100% of foreign exchange
costs (US$7.4 million) and 60% of local costs. Government would contribute
US$2.4 million which would primarily finance operating costs including all
incremental local staff and incremental input subsidies. BNDS would contrib-
ute US$0.1 million which would finance incremental inputs supplied as credit-
in-kind. Beneficiaries would contribute US$0.2 million which would finance
operating costs of pumps for small-scale irrigation (65%) and incremental cash
purchases of inputs (35%). The financing plan is detailed at Annex 2, Tables
2 and 3, and summarized below.



- 15 -
TOTAL    IDA      FAC   GOVT   BNDS   BENEFICIARIES
-----------------------(US$ million)---------------
Small Rice Perimeters          2.1      1.3       -    0.6      0.1        0.1
Small Vegetable Perimeters    1.0       0.8       -    0.2        -          -
Small Banana Perimeters        1.0      0.8       -    0.1        -         0.1
Beekeeping                     0.1      0.1       -       -       -           -
Fishing                        0.1      0.1       -       -       -           -
Village Water Supplies         1.7      1.6       -    0.1        -           -
Project Management             1.9      1.2     0.3    0.4        -           -
Unidentified Activities        4.4      3.7       -    0.7        -           -
Refunding PPA                  0.2      0.2       -       -       -           -
Contingencies                  1.6      1.2     0.1    0.3        -           -
Total                         14.1    11.0      0.4    2.4      0.1         0.2
Percentage                     100       78       3      16       1           2
2.20      The project's financial procedures would be similar to those set up
for the Drought Relief Fund (Credit 446-SE, para. 1.01). Two project accounts
would be opened, one for the handling of Government funds, the other at
BNDS for withdrawals from the IDA Credit Account. The latter would be designated
a "Special Account", into which payments could be made directly from the
Credit Account without passing through Government's Treasury Department;
confirmation of Government's agreement on this point was obtained at negotia-
tions. For both accounts, Government's Chief Financial Controller would
exercise a posteriori control of expenditures, not a priori; confirmation of
Government's agreement on this point was also obtained at negotiations. The
pre-financing of project expenditures would require an initial deposit of CFAF
160 million (US$760,000). This amount would be paid into their respective
project accounts by Government and IDA in the ratio of 15:85, being about the
same proportion as Senegal's and external financiers' contributions to project
costs. Opening of the project accounts and Government's payment of its
initial deposit of CFAF 24 million (US$110,000) would be a condition of
effectiveness. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the project's
Government account would be replenished at least quarterly by Government on
the basis of supporting documentation for expenditures incurred and cash
forecasts made by project management in order to have sufficient funds to meet
projecit expenditures for the following three months. IDA would replenish the
project's IDA account on receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures
were eLigible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit. Should,
however, any disbursement out of the IDA account fail to meet this condition,
Government would deposit the corresponding amount into this account. An
assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.



- 16 -
E. Procurement and Disbursement
2.21      Experience acquired with procurement of civil works for rural
projects in Senegal shows that foreign firms are not likely to bid unless a
contract is worth over US$1 million. Since contract lots for civil works
under the proposed project would be much smaller, the largest single contract
being for wells worth about US$240,000 in small vegetable perimeters, procure-
ment of civil works (estimated cost US$4.0 million) would be by competitive
bidding through local procedures. These procedures are acceptable to IDA.
Procurement of vehicles and equipment (estimated cost US$3.9 million) would be
through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines in
the case of contracts over US$100,000 (approximately US$2.1 million); competi-
tive bidding in accordance with local procedures would be usecd for contracts
less than US$100,000 (approximately US$1.6 million) and, for contracts less
than US$25,000 (approximately US$0.2 million), competitive shopping would be
employed; domestically-manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference or
the applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Investments other than civil
works and vehicles and equipment, for example surveys, initial upkeep of
banana perimeters, and tree planting (estimated cost US$0.4 million) would be
undertaken by force account by the respective technical servic:e agencies as
specified in their contracts with project management (para. 3.03). The
services of the internationally-recruited agricultural economist and works
manager for village water supplies and locally-recruited consultants (estimated
cost US$0.9 million) would be obtained following procedures acceptable to IDA.
Well deepening and construction (estimated cost US$1.1 million) would be
undertaken by force account, with materials and supplies procured by competitive
bidding through local procedures. The remaining items to be procured with IDA
funds, namely office accommodation, overheads and staff travel for the manage-
ment team, as well as materials for training (estimated cost US$0.7 million)
would not be suitable for competitive bidding.
2.22      Each of the six appraised operations would constitute a disbursement
category. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed to cover:
Category I:    Small Rice Perimeters; 95% of expenditures on civil
works, vehicles and equipment, surveys and tree planting
(US$1.3 million);
Category II:   Small Vegetable Perimeters; 95% of expenditures on civil
works, vehicles and equipment (US$0.9 million);
Category III:  Small Banana Perimeters; 95% of expenditures on civil
works, vehicles and equipment and the first year's opera-
tion of each perimeter (US$0.9 million);
Category IV:   Beekeeping; 95% of expenditures on civil works, vehicles
and equipment (US$0.1 million);
Category V:    Fishing; 95% of expenditures on boats and equipment
(US$0.1 million);



- 17 -
Category VI:   Unidentified activities; 95% of expenditures on civil
works, surveys, vehicles and equipment, and other asso-
ciated costs to be specified (US$3.0 million);
Category VII:  Village Water Supplies; 95% of expenditures on civil
works, surveys, vehicles and equipment (US$1.4 million);
Category VIII: Project management; 95% of expenditures on vehicles and
equipment, training, accounting and audit, consultancy,
office accommodation and overheads and staf'f travel
(US$0.9 million);
Category IX:   Expatriate Staff; 100% of expenditures (US$0.6 million);
Category X:    Initial Deposit into Special Account to pre-finance items
under specific categories (US$0.65 million);
Category XI:   Refunding of the PPA (US$162,000);
Category XII:  Unallocated (US$988,000).
Disbursement categories together with estimated quarterly disbursements are
shown at Annex 2, Table 4. Disbursement requests would be fully documented;
disbursement for force account works, training, management's office accommoda-
tion, overheads and staff travel would, however, be made against certified
statements of expencliture for which the documentation would not be submitted
to IDA but retained by the Borrower and made available for quarterly verifica-
tion by the external auditors (para. 2.24) as well as inspection by IDA
supervision missions. These controls together with Government's capability,
demonstrated under the Drought Relief Fund (Credit 446-SE), are adequate to
ensure that the Statement of Expenditure procedure would be properly used.
F. Accounts and Audit
2.23       Project accounting would be under the overall responsibility of the
Project Manager who would prepare annual budgets, ensure that proper accounts
are kept of each operation by the agency concerned, that expenditure returns
with adequate justif'ication are submitted to him monthly, and that consoli-
dated monthly and arnual accounts are prepared.  The accounts would provide,
as simply as possible, the information needed by the Project Manager to plan,
record and control project expenditure and financing, and support disbursement
requests. Suggestecl formats for the accounts are shown in Working Paper 4.
Trading accounts, cash and bank balances, and profit statements for each group
of farmers would be the responsibility of that group, and project management's
role would be limited to advising and assisting when requested in designing a
suitable system.
2.24       An internationally-reputed f irm of auditors, of which there are
several wilth offices in Senegal, would be engaged to: (a) provide assistance
in establishing the accounting system; (b) verify each quarter the project
expenditure statements which support the disbursement applications; and (c)



- 18 -
audit the annual accounts of the project to certify whether they conform to
normally accepted accounting principles, and to report on the accounting
procedures in force. Terms of reference for the provision of these services
are at Annex 1. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that: (i) the project account were verified quarterly and audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) the report of the independent
auditor would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each
project financial year; and (iii) the report of the auditors would be of such
scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request, including an opinion
on the accurancy of statements of expenditures.
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Execution
3.01      The Managerial Task.  The project would be executed by the Project
Management Unit, existing technical service agencies, and groups of producers.
Execution would include the carrying out of the six appraised operations
detailed at Chapter 2.B and the identifying, preparing and appraising of as
yet unidentified operations and their subsequent execution. Each operation
would be confined to a limited area, with field execution undertaken by one
technical service agency and any number of groups of producers; these producer
groups would be akin to subprojects in DFC-type projects. Including the
unidentified activities, there would likely be a total of ten operations and
about 150 groups of producers, averaging about 30 participants per group.
3.02      Central Organization.  While project implementation would involve
several agencies, the ultimate responsibility for project execution would rest
with the Project Management Unit, which Government has established in the new
Department of Small Rural Projects in the Ministry of Human Affairs. The Head
of the Project Management Unit has been appointed, is acceptable to IDA, and
he participated in negotiations; detailed Terms of Reference have been discussed
and agreed with the Government.  Government intends to create a Small Rural
Projects Interministerial Management Committee, of which theCChairman would be
the Minister for Human Affairs.  Other members would include representatives
of each of the Government Departments dealing with rural development, of BNDS
and ONCAD, and each of the Provincial Governors.  This Committee, which would
meet at least twice a year, would: (a) review and approve the project's
annual work program and budget; (b) review semi-annual and annual progress
reports, (c) consider and pass judgment on each new operation proposed for
financing from the allocation for unidentified activities; (d) periodically
review the appropriateness of the terms and conditions of small rural project
financing and report to IDA; and (e) examine the status of each Capital
Replacement Account (para 3.09) and issue the necessary instructions to take
appropriate action in the case of delinquent accounts.  Government has prepared
a draft decree, that is acceptable to IDA, for the creation of the Committee.
Official publication of this decree would be a condition of effectiveness.



- 19 -
3.03       Responsibilities of the Project Management Unit.  For each appraised
operation, the Unit would be responsible for: (a) making a contract for
provision of technical services with the selected technical service agency,
such contract to serve as the basis for disbursements by the project manager
to the agency in respect, notably, of staff, vehicle and other operating
costs; (b) drafting a contract, of which a model is annexed to Working
Paper 3, to be made between the technical service agency and each group of
producers, specifying the rights and obligations of each party; (c) acting,
wherever the project: manager deems appropriate, as procurement agent for the
technical service agency, (d) regularly supervising the operation's physical
and financial execution; and (e) proposing and supervising adequate monitor-
ing, and undertaking periodic evaluation. For the as yet unidentified opera-
tions, the Unit wou]id be responsible for diffusing information on project
selection criteria, terms and conditions of financing, and procedures to be
followed through to approval, as well as for assisting technical service
agencies and groups of producers in project preparation, by issuing guidelines
and undertaking formal training courses. The Unit would also be responsible
for undertaking an appraisal of each new operation proposed for financing from
the allocation for unidentified activities and for reporting thereon to the
Interministerial Committee. The Unit's other main responsibilities would be
to prepare the annual work program and budget, and semi-annual and annual
progress reports which would include the consolidated project accounts and a
statement of the status of each Capital Replacement Account (paras 3.06-3.09);
these reports would be submitted simultaneously to the Interministerial
Committee and to IDA. The project manager would be responsible, and an
assurance to this ef fect was obtained at negotiations, for preparing a project
completion report within six months of the closing date.  To carry out these
responsibilities the! Unit would comprise six key people who would work
exclusively on the project: The project manager, two rural engineers, two
agricultural economists, and an accountant; an assurance to this effect was
obtained at negotiations.   All support staff, who would include three book-
keepers, woùld be engaged on f ixed-term contracts.
3.04       Responsibilities of Technical Service Agencies.  For the appraised
operations, the agencies responsible for provision of technical services would
be:
Small Rice Perimeters                    SAED
Small Vegetable Perimeters               Rural Development Centers
Small Banana Petrimeters                 SOMIVAC
Beekeeping                               Livestock Department, Casamance
Fishing                                  Fisheries Department, Louga
Village Water Supplies                   Water Supply Department, Sine Saloum
The extent of the agencies' responsibility for execution of the operations
would vary, depending on the complexity of the operation and the producer
groups' activities, from direct management of the first year's establishment
of plantations in small banana perimeters, to the relatively light managerial
input in fishing. The remuneration of technical service agencies would take
account of this diversity; specified in the contract with the Project Manage-
ment Unit, such remuneration would cover only the additional direct costs



- 20 -
incurred, with no contribution to overheads; an assurance to this effect was
obtained at negotiations. For each operation, the technical service agency
would keep the accounts for project-financed expenditures, verify the capital
replacement accounts maintained by groups of producers, and report quarterly,
following the model formats annexed to Working Paper 3, to the project manager.
At the discretion of the project manager, an advance of up to three months'
cash expenditures on execution of the operation would be made to the technical
service agency; the advance would be replenished by the project manager on
receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures were eligible for financing
under the project.
3.05      Responsibilities of Groups of Producers.  The responsibility of
groups of producers would vary as a complement to the responsibility of the
technical service agencies. For all operations, however, and for each sub-
project, the producer group would have to organize itself to: (a) provide all
unskilled labor required during construction; (b) collect the cash amount
required to be deposited prior to initial installation of medium-term assets,
and subsequently to collect the annuity to be paid; (c) allocate land; (d)
devise and make operative rules for access to common goods and services;
and (e) collect the cash and/or provide the labor for operation and mainte-
nance of shared facilities. To exercise these responsibilities, the group
would not necessarily have to be a de jure entity, and would require only a de
facto identity with an appropriate operational structure, including the
capacity to enter into contracts with the technical service agencies providing
assistance under the project. The operational structure would include, as
appropriate, a general assembly, a management committee, and members elected
for particular functions such as financial control and water distribution.
The form of remuneration, if any, to members elected to perform particular
functions would be a matter for each group alone to decide. Each group would
have to maintain simple accounts for common expenditures and receipts, and
draw up an annual or seasonal financial statement and forecast. The technical
service agency would assist as requested, using guidelines already developed
for small rural projects. Each group would have at least one bank account,
the capital replacement account, and at the option of the group a second
operating account. While the Project Management Unit and the technical
service agency would advise groups of producers on selection of an appropriate
legal status and an operational structure, the decision would be the responsi-
bility of each particular group. Following the Matam experience, each producer
group would be free to decide how to exercise its collective responsibilities.
B. Capital Replacement Accounts
3.06      One of the innovative features of the proposed project would be that
provision of medium-term assets to groups of producers would be made through
capital replacement accounts instead of medium-term credit. The total value
of such assets, at current prices, would be about CFAF 210 million (US$1
million). The idea behind capital replacement accounts is to avoid some of
the shortcomings experienced in Senegal with orthodox medium-term lending for
rural equipment. First, as banks cannot get adequate security and guarantees
on such lending, they are reluctant to channel the funds; second, collection
performance of such medium-term credit as has been extended by institutions



- 21 -
otiier than banks has been disappointing and such loans are no longer perceived
Ps being necessarily repayable; and third, small rural projects have often
started up well and then collapsed because the original medium-term equipment
was not replaced. With capital replacement accounts, the Project Management
Unit would retain ownership of the equipment that would be lent to groups of
producers, while each group would be required to build up enough savings to be
able to purchase the replacement equipment when it becomes needed, generally
four years after the original equipment had been put into service.
3.07      For each mediurm-term asset to be provided, the producer group would
open a capital replacement account at the nearest branch of BNDS; power of
withdrawal from such accounts would be vested exclusively in the group. As a
condition for receipt of the asset, the group would pay into its capital
replacement account an amount of at least 5% of the delivered cost of the
asset; suchi payments would be verified by project management and an assurance
to this effect was obtained at negotiations.  The asset would remain the
property of the Project Management Unit until such time as the group had put
sufficient funds itito the account to replace the asset. The first and sub-
sequent replacements of the asset would be financed by the group's savings in
its capital replacement account.  Savings would accumulate through annual
payment of an annuity calculated at replacement cost, inflation being estimated
at 10% per year, interest on deposits at the prevailing BNDS rate (currently
5.5% per year), and the useful life being estimated conservativaly. The
contract between the technical service agency and the producer group would
specify the amount of the annual payment and the date payable, and an assurance
to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
3.08      Ihe concept of an annuity would, however, be difficult to explain to
all groups of farmers; in addition, since replacement cost has to be esti-
mated,? there would be much scope for debate on the amount from which the
annuity would be calculated. Given these practical problems, payments to be
made into capital replacement accounts would be presented to groups of pro-
ducers in a simplified manner, the principle being to calculate the required
annuity and then to find the most readily comprehensible means of presenting
it.  The Project Management Unit would provide appropriate guidelines to
technical service agencies. For a typical example of a pump with a four-year
life, the presentation would be as follows: (a) an initial payrment of 5% of
delivered cost; (b) annual payments of one-third of the initial cost except
that, for the first year, the initial payment of 5% would be deducted,
the payment due at end-year being 28%. This schedule of payments would yield
an end-Year 4 balance in the capital replacement account of 3% more than the
estimated replacement cost.
3.09      The status of all capital replacement accounts, with attention
drawn to any instancies of overdue accounts, would be reported by the technical
service agencies in their quarterly reports to the project manager who would,
in turn, report at leaast semiannually to the Interministerial Committee. The
project manager would notify groups of producers whose accounts were in
arrears that their equipment, of which ownership was vested in the Project
Management Unit, cou:Ld be seized unless the arrears were paid off by the time
of the next meeting of the Committee. In the case of any accounts still in
arrears, the Committtse (para 3.02) would issue the necessary instructions to



- 22 -
take appropriate action, such as seizure of the eq-uipment. An assurance to
this effect was obtained at negotiations.   In addition, IDA supervision
missions would carry out a systematic review of the capital replacement
accounts and report on their status, and make periodic judgments on whether or
not mediumterm assets should continue to be provided through capital replace-
ment accounts.
C. Small Rural Project Cycle for Unidentified Operations
3.10      Unidentified operations would be subject to the selection criteria
and the tests of manifest interest by beneficiaries specified at para. 2.03.
The cycle of initiation, preparation, appraisal and approval would comprise
the following phases. First, initiation would stem increasingly from groups
of producers in response to the diffusion of information on eligibility
for funds by the Project Management Unit. A technical service agency would
not be prohibited from initiating a project idea but, during preparation, it
would have to provide evidence that groups of producers were seriously committed
to it. Second, preparation would be undertaken by groups of producers who
would enlist the help of a local technical service agency, often the RDC,
which would write-up an outline project proposal. This proposal would be
distributed for comments simultaneously to the Rural Community Council,
district and provincial officials, and the Project Management Unit. The Unit
would facilitate the preparation process not only by (a) providing early
feedback on the suitability for project financing and (b) providing detailed
information on techniques and costs, but also more generally by: (c) providing
simple guidelines on project content; (d) holding training sessions for
leaders of producer groups and local technical staff; and (e) undertaking
frequent field trips to review ongoing preparation. The final. product of
the preparation phase would be a request for financing. Third, appraisal of
the request would be undertaken at three levels, namely the Rural Community,
the Provincial Development Committee chaired by the Governor, and the Project
Manager. Fourth, power of approval would be vested in the Interministerial
Committee subject to IDA approval (a) of all operations other than extensions
of appraised operations and (b) in the case of extensions of appraised opera-
tions, only where the cost per group of producers exceeded CFAF 20 million
(US$95,000) or the cost per participating family exceeded CFAF 630,000
(US$3,000), subject to a maximum of US$2 million (CFAF 420 million). An
assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations. As soon as a proposed
operation is approved, project management would make a contract with the
technical service agency and draft a contract to be made between the agency
and the groups of producers. Generally, these contracts woulcl be confirmations
of agreements reached during preparation except in cases where important
modifications had been made during the appraisal and approval processes; in
such cases project management would ensure that the changes are explained to
the producer groups and any disagreements resolved, if necessary by resubmitting
a revised request for financing rather than going ahead with an investment to
which the substantive commitment of the producer group had not: been obtained.
Further detailed features of the small rural projects cycle are at Working
Paper 3.



- 23 -
3. i~  This cycle is well adapted to Senegalese administrative procedures
which require that maany agencies and levels of authority be given the right
of consultation if not review and approval of proposed development activities.
The cycle imay nonetheless prove to be too cumbersome for reasonably speedy
processing of requests for funding from the allocation for unidentified
operations. In view of this uncertainty, a review of the efficacy of the
small rural projects cycle would be undertaken jointly by Government and IDA
by June 30, 1982; an assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
3.12      Training.  As part of its task of diffusing information on eligibil-
ity for fuunding, the Project Management Unit would conduct training courses
on selection criteriLa, the small rural projects cycle, and the rights and
obligations of the various participants. These courses would be held initially
for staff at the provincial level, and then for members of Rural Cornmunity
Councils and technical staff at the district level. Courses would be given at
appropriate places in the provinces and districts by the project management
team assisted by locally-recruited consultants. As experience is acquired
with project implementation, and results of monitoring become available,
course conltent woulcL be amended to highlight the lessons to be applied to
further project preparation and execution.  The project would not provide
technical training to staff, either of the Unit or the technical service
agencies, because the staff are technically qualified to provide the services
expected of them.
IV. TECHNOLOGICAL AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
4.01      Inputs.  The technological and production specifications for the
appraised operations are based on acquired experience with similar small-scale
projects in or close! to the areas where the proposed operations would be
implemented. There would be no innovations in respect of input types or
quantities except irLsofar as technical service agencies came up with new,
widely-applicable evidence that changes were warranted; such changes would be
introduced generally, not just in the particular operations envisaged in the
proposed project. Inputs for small vegetable perimeters and fishing would be
selected and purchased by producers from private suppliers who are well
representecl in the areas where these two operations would be undertaken.
For small rice perimeters, rice would be transplanted, and inputs would
include: rice: 250 kg/ha of 16.48.0 and urea; maize: 150 kg/ha of 16.48.0,
100 kg/ha of potassium chloride and 150 kg/ha of urea; and tomatoes: 450
kg/ha of 16.48.0, 350 kg/ha of potassium chloride and 100 kg/ha of urea.
These inputs would be ordered by SAED from ONCAD and delivered by SAED to the
perimeters. Pesticides and sprayers as well as rice seed, for which SAED
produces its own selected seed, maize seed and tomato seed would also be
stocked by SAED for sale to producers. Inputs for small banana perimeters,
where banarnas would be planted out at 2500 plants per ha, would include a
basal application of one ton/ha of each of rock phosphate and lime, and 500
kg/ha of magnesium sulphate, and an annual application of two tons/ha of
10.10.20 at flowering time; these inputs would be ordered by SOMIVAC from
ONCAD and clelivered by SOWIIVAC to the perimeters. Initial planting naterial
would be purchased by SOMIVAC from existing banana producers. Tlhe banana
plants would be replaced every four years, producers using their own offshoots.



- 24 -
4.02      Production Methods.  Based on acquired experience, the production
methods in the three kinds of small-scale irrigation operations would be quite
different. In small rice perimeters, irrigation would be by flooding of
hand-levelled plots of five ares. In small vegetable perimeters, water would
be carried by hand from storage tanks to the crops. In small banana peri-
meters, water would be distributed by furrows between each two rows of
bananas, sprinkler irrigation having been tested but recently abandoned due to
increased incidence of banana diseases. Apart from fishing, which would be a
full-time activity, the other appraised operations would be complements to
existing production systems. Questions of labor allocation between existing
and new activities would therefore arise, particularly for work to be under-
taken during the rainy season. The adequacy of labor is not, however,
considered to be a problem in view of the participation in existing small
rural projects and the demand for more. The adequacy of incentives is
examined at paras. 5.04-5.06.
4.03      Yields.  Yield forecasts (Table 4.1) are based on acquired experi-
ence with similar small-scale operations in or close to the areas where the
appraised subprojects would be implemented. In practice, there have been
many instances where the forecast yields have been exceeded though average
yields have often been lower. Low average yields have usually arisen from
controllable factors such as inadequate provision for replacement of medium-
term assets; in the case of irrigation pumps, for example, continued use of
old pumps gives rise to frequent breakdowns with direct effects on crop
output. The financial arrangements in the proposed project are, however,
designed to ensure continuity of operations through adequate provision for
replacements. Given this, the yield forecasts are reasonable and sustainable,
and would be exceeded by the more efficient groups of producers.
4.04      Output.  Since individual subprojects would be small and the share
of particular participants in project-created assets would also be small, the
incentive would be to make full use of the land or asset from the outset.
This has been the experience with existing small rural projects. Immediate
full utilization is expected in each of the appraised operations with the sole
exception of small vegetable perimeters, where the cropping intensity is
expected to rise over three years from 1.0 to 1.5. Forecast yields would not,
however, be attained in the first season. With the sole exception of fishing,
there is expected to be a gradual buildup over a few years to full development
yields. Full development output would not therefore be reached until the
sixth year of the project. Production by volume and value is summarized at
Table 4.2 where the volume data are incremental for the particular commodities
shown and the value data reflect those volumes.



- 25 -
Table 4.1 KEY TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Years to Full    Yields through
Unit   Development    Full 'Development
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3
Small Rice Perimeters
Paddy                           tons/ha        2        2.5       4        4
Maize                           tons/ha        2        1.5       2        2
Tomatoes                        tons/ha        2       16.0      20       20
Cropping intensity              factor         1        1.3       1.3      1.3
Small Vegetable Perimeters
Potatoes                        tons/ha        3       12        16       20
Onions                          tons/ha        3       15        20       25
Tomatoes                        tons/ha        3       15        20       25
Cabbages                        tons/ha        3       15        20       25
Beans                           tons/ha        3        3.6       4.8      6
Cropping intensity              factor         3        1.0       1.2      1.5
Small Banarta Perimeters
Bananas                         tons/ha        2        0        20       20
Beekeeping
Honey                           kg/hive        3       20        30       40
Wax                             kg/hive        3        0         2        3
Fishing
Annual catch                    tons/canoe    1        40        40       40
V. FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Demand, Marketing and Prices
5.01      Demand.  F'or the appraised operations, outputs would be either
import substitutes (paddy, maize, tomatoes for paste, bananas) or additional
supplies to the domestic market (vegetables, honey and wax, fish).  Output
volumes would be small in aggregate (Table 4.2), and very small per perimeter
or group of: producers. Much of the output is likely to be consumed by the
producers themselves, or close to the production sites in small towns that are
presently poorly supplied. Apart from this local demand, nationwide urban
demand is strong and fast-growing for the project commodities, and income
elasticities are high for all except paddy. However, project output of paddy
would be onily 2,400 tons, against the imported annual equivalent of 300,000



- 26 -
tons of paddy. The only operation whose scale has been restrained in view of
a possible demand constraint is small banana perimeters. Banana consumption
is estimated at 6,000 tons per year, of which imports now account for 4,000
tons but ongoing and recently approved projects would increase domestic
production from 2,000 to 5,000 tons.  Therefore, the banana subproject has
been scaled to produce 1,000 tons per year even though there is some scope to
increase sales in some outlying towns that are at present irregularly
supplied.
5.02      Marketing.  For all project outputs, producers would be free to sell
to private buyers.  For some outputs, producers would also have the option of
selling to parastatal agencies:  SAED for paddy and tomatoes and SERAS for
honey and wax. These agencies are participants in a competitive commercial
structure that functions reasonably efficiently and is unlikely to undergo
substantive change: Government increasingly recognizes that the role of
parastatal agencies should be to compete with, not to supplant, the private
sector. Some groups of producers, notably for bananas and vagetables, may
elect to constitute marketing cooperatives; the project would not attempt to
influence such decisions but would, through existing local cooperative staff,
provide technical assistance during implementation.
5.03      Prices,  Official producer prices are declared for paddy and maize,
and the respective parastatal agencies set their own prices for honey,
wax and tomatoes for paste. Since the marketing structures are reasonably
competitive, however, actual prices may differ and producers would not thereby
suffer from unduly low prices. Official, actual and economic producer prices
in 1979 are shown at Table 4.2, for overseas-traded outputs. For these
outputs, namely rice, maize, bananas and tomato paste, economic producer
prices are calculated on a 1985 import substitution basis, it being assumed
that rice and maize would be consumed in or close to the production area, but
that bananas and tomato paste would be consumed in Dakar. For outputs that
would constitute additional supplies to the local market, incremental produc-
tion would be negligible in comparison to actual production; 1985 economic
producer prices in 1979 terms are taken to be identical to 1979 financial
prices.
B. Financial Implications for Beneficiaries
5.04      Beneficiaries annual incremental incomes net of cash inputs and
payments into their capital replacement accounts are detailed at Annex 2,
Table 5 and summarized at Table 5.1, with other financial features of the
project. These incomes, calculated on the assumption (para 5.05) that pre-
project income would be unaffected by the project, would vary from CFAF 55,000
(US$260) per participating family in small rice perimeters to CFAF 136,000
(US$650) in fishing, with a weighted average of CFAF 76,000 (US$360). Nation-
wide average rural incomes in 1979 were about CFAF 300,000 (US$1,430) per
ten-member family, but with considerable variation between localities re-
flecting rainfall and proximity to the capital. Pre-project incomes of
beneficiarv families would vary from about CFAF 200,000 (US$950) in the
Senegal Valley for small rice perimeters to about CFAF 350,000 (US$1670) in



- 27 -
Table 4.2 PRODUCTION VOLUME, VALUE AND UNIT PRICES
YEARS   1        2        3       4        5        6         7
Production                        -----------------(tons)-------------------__._
Small Rice Perimeters
Paddy                         -       -       500    1300    2100    2400         2400
Maize                         -       -        60      140      220      240       240
Tomatoes                      -       -       320      720    1120    1200        1200
Small Vegetable Producers
Vegetables                    -      120      339      706      938    1091       1091
Small Banana Producers
Bananas                       -       -        -       560    1200    1200        1200
Beekeeping
Honey and wax                 -        3        6       12       17       20         22
Fishing
Fish                          -       -       40f      600      800      800       8D0
Value                             -----------------(CFAF million)-------------------
Small Rice Perimeters
Paddy                         -       -        21       54       87      100       100
Maize                         -       -         2        5        8        9          9
Tomatoes                      -       -         5       il       17       18         18
Subtotal                      -       -        28       70      112      127       127
Small Vegetable Per:Lmeters
Subtotal                      -        8       22       45       60       70        70
Small Banana Perimet:ers
Subtotal                      -       -        -        42       90       90        90
Beekeeping
Subtotal                      -        1        2        4        5        6          7
Fishing
Subtotal                      -       -        18       27       36       36         36
Total                             -        9       70     188       303       329       330
Paddy      r-Maize    Bananas       Tomatoes for Paste
Unit Prices                              ------------------(CFAF/kg)------------------------
Price used in farm budgets 1/               41.5        37           75                  15
Price used in economic analWs- 2/           55          71           75                  22
Economic price, 1979 basis -                50          60           71                  22
Actual producer prices, 197e/               50          50           75                  60
Official producer prices, 1979-             41.5        37           75                  15
1/  And used for the valuation  shown above; prices for locally-traded outputs are (in CFAF/kg):
vegetables 64; honey 300; wax 500; fish 45.
2/ Based on 1985 prices in constant 1979 terms, detailed at Annex 2, Table 7.
3/ Based on 1979 reference prices.
4/  Harvest prices reflecting, for paddy, naize and tomatoes, consumption of ail current output
in the immediate vicinity of the production site (tomatoes as fresh or driErd).
5/  Adopted for farm budget analysis since these prices are based on urban consiumption for
which project outputs would, at the margin, be destined. Actual prices would not be
lower and they could be higher.



- 28 -
the vicinity of small vegetable perimeters near Dakar. Project-generated
incomes would be 28% and 35% respectively of pre-project incomes.
5.05      The assumption that pre-project income would be unaffected by the
project rests on two observations. First, the incremental labor input per
family, as nuch as 180 labor-days per year in small rice perimeters at full
development, is not large in relation to the labor resources of a ten-member
family; equivalent to 1200 labor-days per year, the family would have to spend
15% of its time or, plausibly, increase its work output by 15%, to participate
in small rice perimeters.  Second, most of the incremental labor input would
be needed in otherwise slack seasons, namely the dry season in small vegetable
perimeters and before the floods, recede in small rice perimeters.  The extent,
if any, to which pre-project income has declined in the existing srall rice
perimeters at Matam is not known; that the change is acceptable, if not
negligible, is shown by the finding from site inspections and land productiv-
ity data that the producers do indeed choose to allocate ample labor resources
to their small rice perimeters. The existing perimeters at Matam are, more-
over, the closest to those envisaged under the project in respect of the terms
and conditions of financing and beneficiary participation. A non-zero oppor-
tunity cost of labor has nonetheless been assumed in the economic analysis
(para. 6.03).
5.06      Table 5.1 shows that net income per labor-day at full development
would be in the range CFAF 300-800 (US$1.43-3.81), with the exception of small
banana perimeters at over CFAF 1,200 (US$5.71). The special feature of small
banana perimeters is that they require a massive labor input in the first
plantation year, four times the annual input required for upkeep in subsequent
years, and that there is a full twelve-month delay before any income starts to
be generated; for those able and willing to undertake this effort, the subse-
quent rewards are high. Yet for all the appraised operations including
bananas project-generated incomes are not high relative to the official
minimum wage of CFAF 860 (US$4.10) per day.  Employment opportunities at this
rate are, however, limited and little is known about effective wages in the
informal sector. In addition, although daily hire rates of CFAF 1,000
(US$4.76) for farm labor have been reported during the brief seasonal peaks,
remuneration of regular farm labor is both in cash and in kind and difficult
to express in monetary terms; it is certainly much less, perhaps only one
fifth, of the peak rates.  Another approach to the adequacy of the incentives
provided by expected net income per labor-day is the existing and foreseeable
demand to participate in small rural projects.  Ongoing expansions of existing
rice perimeters at Matam, banana perimeters in Casamance, and vegetable
perimeters in Thies are oversubscribed. Under the proposed project, the
producers would take the key initiatives and the project would intervene only
after they had manifested their interest in receiving assistance.
5.07      Cost and rent recovery under, for instance, the Debi-Lampsar Irriga-
tion Project (Credit 775-SE), provides for the setting of water charges and
their periodic review to achieve adequate cost recovery while maintaining
sufficient incentive for participating farmers; the charges envisaged were
estimated to cover operation and maintenance costs, and about 12% of capital
costs. The proposed project would adopt a different approach to the same end
by obliging beneficiaries to make direct provision, in cash or in kind, for



- 29 -
TABLE 5.1  FINANCIAL FEATURES
Unit          Rice       Vegetables      Bananas        Beekeeping     Fishing
Total Base Cost                            CFAF million           433           213           211              24            22
Beneficiary Families                      No.                   1,200           360           600             100           100
Cost per Family                            CFAF '000              361           592           352             240           220
US$                  1,720         2,820         1,680           1,140         1,050
Specific Operations                       No.                      30            18            15               4            20
Families per Operation                    No.                      40            20            40              25             5
Cost per Operation                        CFAF million             14            12            14               6             1
US$ '000                67            57            67              29             5
Income and rent at full development
Net Income at Full Development i/    CFAF '000/Year             55           124            82              52           136
Labor Input at full development        Labor-days/Year         181           161            66              65           210
Income per labor-day                   CFAF                    304           770        1,240              800           648
Rent at Fuil Development 2/            CFAF 'OOO/Year           31           109            51              48           174
Source: Working'Paper 4, Table 2.
1/ Net of cash inputs and payments into capital replacement accounts.
2C Cross income less cash input costs, inputed values of family labor and management, allowance for risk, and general taxes.



- 30 -
specific items of capital and operating costs that are commonly provided by
the public sector, with the costs recovered through water charges. Because of
the planned beneficiary participation, the public sector (a) would not have to
replace medium-term assets, (b) would not finance any operating costs of, for
instance, water pumping nor any maintenance costs of, for example, main
carnals, and (c) would not incur such high initial construction costs since
groups of producers would provide unskilled labor without remuneration.
5.08      Village Water Supplies.  In keeping with current nationwide policy,
there would be no direct contribution from beneficiaries to costs of village
water supplies. There would nonetheless be important financial implications
for beneficiaries, deriving from the characteristics of the two types of open
wells. A simple well dug by a small local contractor will cost about one-tenth
of a modern concrete-lined well, but provides only one-sixth of the volume
of water and dries up in summer. For an individual village, simple wells
would be the least-cost solution in isolated villages with up to 700-900
people, depending on the depth to water and the cost of transporting water in
summer. For clusters of villages in close proximity, thé general case in
Sine Saloum Region, the choice of type of well is more complex and a method
for approaching the problem is detailed at Working Paper 2.B. The critical
factors are dry-season supply and demand for water, and the cost of transport
to localities whose existing watering points dry up in the dry season. The
50 modern wells to be constructed under the project would be sited by apply-
ing the outlined method which would maximize transport cost savings; such
savings, with a present value at 10% over 40 years of at least CFAF 4 million
(US$19,000) per well, would accrue to Rural Communities that presently hire
transporters to distribute water, and to individuals who pay in cash or in
kind for delivery of water to their villages. The 50 wells to be deepened
under the project would generate other savings for Rural Communities and
individuals since they would provide, at the marginal cost of deepening, a
permanent watering point capable of delivering six times the volume of water
obtainable from an undeepened well. These savings cannot be quantified but
are considered substantial, not just in amount but, more important, because
they would be obtained from application of new methods and techniques that
would later be employed elsewhere in the country. The direct beneficiaries
from this subproject would number about 1,000 per well, or 100,000 in total.
C. Financial Implications for Government
5.09      There would be no directly-generated revenue to Government since
none of the project outputs are commodities on which cesses are levied.
Beneficiary incomes would, however, increase by about 30%, thereby raising
their incomes above the relative poverty level by about the same proportion,
and expendituires on consumer goods subject to indirect taxation can therefore
be expected to be significant. This effect cannot be quantified with much
accuracy but an estimate, based on expenditure of 50% of increinental net
incomae on goods taxed at 20%, is included in the Government cash flow at
Arinex 2,  Table 6. This estimate is about half the 23% share in GDP of Govern-
ment current revenue. Beyond Year 4, the cash flow would be negative at CFAF
50 million (US$240,000) per year in 1985 prices.  Post-project annual outflow



- 31 -
other than service charges would be CFAF 65 million (US$310,000), of which
fertilizer subsidies alone would account for CFAF 43 million (US$205,000).
The cash fLow net oi fertilizer subsidies would be scarcely negative.
VI. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Project Benefits
6.01      By channe]ling funds and technical assistance to groups of producers
for the preparation and execution of small rural investments, the project
would establish an institutional framework for the encouragement and support
of local initiatives in such investments. By instituting capital replacement
accounts and ensuring that they work, the project would help render small
groups of producers creditworthy in the judgment of the local banking system.
These would be the two most important of the project's benefits.  By focussing
on the principle that beneficiaries manifest, both in cash and in kind, their
interest in participation, the project would enable Government to clarify the
present diversity in the terms and conditions of financing for small rural
projects. It is considered that financiers of such projects would welcome
clear, Government-prescribed guidelines and the total amount of funding for
small ruraL projects can be expected to increase. The project would have no
adverse environmental effects.
6.02      Distribution of Benefits.  Assuming that the cost per beneficiary in
the unidentified operations would be the same as that in the appraised opera-
tions, the project would benefit about 4,200 families, or 42,000 people.
Including project management costs, the cost per beneficiary family would
be US$2,260 in 1979 prices, about double that incurred in typical agricultural
developmenit projects based on improving rainfed farming in West Africa, but
less than a quarter of costs incurred in large-scale irrigation projects.
In addition, about 100,000 people would benefit from permanent village water
supplies, at a cost per beneficiary of US$170. With the possible exception of
small banana perimeters, nearly all of the likely beneficiaries have incomes
at or below the relative poverty level. It does not necessarily follow that
project beneficiaries would be among the poorest of the poor, since those who
choose to take advantage of the investment opportunities afforded would likely
be among the more enterprising and innovative.  Recipients of project funds
are likely to be either groups of similarly-enterprising individuals or of
people organized anci motivated by a few or even only one entrepreneurial type.
In the latter case, the leader(s) would plausibly take a disproportionate
share of revenues accruing and/or pay an unduly low share of the group's
obligations. Such rewards may nonetheless be a necessary incentive for the
emergence of local leadership.



- 32 -
B. Economic Analysis
6.03      No attempt has been made to measure the main project benefits stated
at para 6.01. Otherwise, the following major assumptions are used: (a)
project life of 20 years with no residual values; (b) shadow price of foreign
exchange: 1.25; and (c) opportunity cost of all labor except in small banana
perimeters: CFAF 120 (US$0.57) per day to reflect dry season income foregone;
in small banana perimeters: CFAF 360 (US$1.71) to reflect part-time but
year-long income foregone. Based on these assumptions, the economic rates of
return arè as follows, where the unidentified operations are assumed to have
the same return as that found for the sum of the appraised operations:
Operation                              % of Project Cost            Rate of Return
Small Rice Perimeters                           19                         18%
Small Vegetable Perimeters                       9                         12%
Small Banana Perimeters                          9                         19%
Beekeeping                                       1                         12%
Fishing                                          1                         60%
Sum of the above                                39                         17%
Sum of the above, with 50%
of project management costs                   47                         15%
Unidentified, with 50% of
project management costs                        38                         13%
Sum of the above                                85                         14%
Further details are in Working Paper 6.  The remainder of project costs
is made up of village water supplies (14%), for which no economic rate
of return can be calculated, and the refunding of the project preparation
advance (1%).
6.04      Risks.  Experience acquired with other rural development fund-type
projects in West Africa suggests that there would be three main risks. First,
small rural works have often been poorly constructed due, mainly, to the
difficulty of supervising work at many dispersed sites. To offset this risk,
while the six appraised operations are geographically dispersed, subprojects
within a given operation would be concentrated in a limited area. Second,
technical service agencies have often assumed full responsibility for execu-
tion, as well as for preparation; keen to get on with the job, they have often
paid scant attention or even ignored beneficiary participation and initiative.
Assessment of this risk was one of the key issues at appraisal, and the
mission became convinced of Government's commitment to the primacy of the
objective of encouraging local initiatives in small rural investments.
Third, the terms and conditions laid down for beneficiary participation have
not always been respected due, mainly, to the large number of Government and
external agencies involved in small rural projects and, thereby, the diversity



- 33 -
in terms and conditions of assistance, as well as the proclivity of Govern-
ments to retreat from enforcing rigorous financial discipline. In Senegal,
however, Government recognizes that it has not had clear policies toward
participat:Lon in small rural projects and that the present disarray of terms
and condit:ions stems largely from its own lack of guidance; the new Department
of Small Rural Projects would be the instrument through which such leadership
would be exercised.  The common risks of cost underestimation and production
overestimaition are less disturbing with the proposed project than with many
other rura:L sector projects; an unusually sound data base was available for
estimating costs ancL, because none of the appraised operations is innovative,
production estimates are based on acquired experience.  Sensitivity tests,
detailed at Working Paper 6, show that a 10% reduction in benefits would
entail a relative decline of 21-28% in base rates of return, while a 10%
increase in costs would entail a relative decline of 19-25%; the project
could, therefore, retadily withstand the foreseeable risks. In addition, the
discrete nature of the operations implies that failure of one operation would
not have serious repercussions on the others.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
on the following principal items:
(i)  for selection of small rural projects to be financed from the
allocation for unidentified activities, the criteria would be
that the projects were: a) directly productive; b) financially
and economically profitable, with a net income per labor-day at
i-ull development of at least CFAF 275 (US$1.31) and an internal
economic rate of return of at least 10%; and c) requested by, and
manifèstly in the interest of, a group or groups of producers,
such interest to be manifested by (i) a commitment to provide all
umskilled labor during construction with no remuneration either
iLn cash or in kind, (ii) a lump sum cash payment prior to the
initial in,stallation of medium-term assets, and (iii) an undertaking
to provide for replacement of such assets by annual payment of
an annuity calculated at replacement cost (para. 2.03);
(ii) SAED's team of staff for the small rice perimeter operation would
be given sufficient operational autonomy to work effectively
(para 2.05);
(iii)  the project's Government account would be replenished at least
*quarterly by Government on the basis of cash forecasts made by
project management, and for any disbursement out of the project's
IDA account that may be found to be ineligible for financing under
the Credit., Government would deposit the corresponding amount into
this account (para. 2.20);



- 34 -
(iv) as a condition for provision of medium-term assets to any group of
producers, the group would open and pay into its capital replacement
account an amount of at least 5% of the delivered cost of such
assets, and such payments would be verified by the Project Management
Unit (para. 3.07);
(v) each contract between a technical service agency and a producer
group would specify the amount of the annual payment and the date
payable into the group's capital replacement account (para. 3.07);
(vi) for each capital replacement account to which payments were overdue
at the time of any meeting of the Interministerial Committee, the
Committee would issue the necessary instructions to take appropriate
action to make up the arrears (para 3.09); and
(vii)  power of approval of operations to be financed from the unidenti-
fied category would be vested in the Interministerial Committee
subject to IDA approval (a) of all operations other than extensions
of appraised operations, and (b) in the case of extensions of
appraised operations, only when the cost per group of producers
exceeded CFAF 20 million (US$95,000) or the cost per beneficiary
family exceeded CFAF 630,000 (US$3,000), subject to a maximum of
US$2 million (CFAF 420 million) (para 3.10).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:  (i) two project accounts
had been opened and Government had paid in its initial deposit of CFAF 24
million (para. 2.20); (ii) the decree creating the Interministerial Committee
had been published officially (para. 3.02).
7.03      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA credit on standard terms of US$11 million equivalent to
the Government of Senegal.



ANNEX I
- 35 -                        Page 1
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS
TERMS -OF REFERENCE
1.   Terms of Reference for Accounting and Auditing Services
The firm appointed to provide accounting and audit services to the
Project will carry out three distinct though related tasks: first, it will
advise and assist in establishing a budgeting, accounting, internal control
and management information system and will thereafter monitor the implementa-
tion-of the system; second, it will carry out a quarterly verification of
project expenditures; and third, it will carry out an annual audit of the
Project's financial statements and report thereon. These tasks are more fully
described below:
(a) A system will be established which will ensure that expenditures
on each operation and for the project as a whole are properly budgeted,
accounted for, and controlled. Annual budgets will be prepared by the Project
Manager for each operation and the whole project and these will be agreed
with the agencies responsible for provision of technical services. The
agencies will ensure that separate accounts are kept for each operation, and
that monthly returns of expenditure are submitted to the Project Manager. The
Project Manager will prepare monthly expenditure statements for each operation
which will show actual expenditure for the month and for the year to date
against the budget for the year, and for total expenditure on the operation
to date (including prior years) against the total budget for that operation.
The Project Manager will also prepare a consolidated expenditure statement.
The system should provide adequate internal control over expenditures on each
subproject and over assets acquired, ensuring that such expenditure and assets
are used only for the purposes of the project. The information needed by
management to plan and control project expenditures should be furnished
through the budgets and periodic expenditure statements, together with such
additional analysis and commentary as the statements may call for. In the
course of carrying out the quarterly verification of expenditure and annual
audit, the firm would be expected to review the accounting procedures and make
such recommendations'fot improving and supplementing them as it considers
appropriate.
(b)  The firm will carry out a quarterly verification of project expendi-
tures to ensure (i) that expenditure returns submitted by executing agencies
are supported by adequate documentary evidence; (ii) that the monthly expendi-
ture statements have been properly prepared; (iii) that applications for
disbursements from the IDA Credit are supported by the books of account; and
(iv) that evidence is provided of cash in hand and at banks. Normally the
quarterly verification of expenditure will be carried out at project headquar-
ters and only exceptionally will field visits be required. The firm will
provide a brief report on the quarterly verification to the Project Manager
and the Minister for Human Affairs.



ANNEX I
- 36 -                         Page 2
(c)  The firm will carry out in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards an annual audit of the project financial statements (expen-
diture statement and balance sheet), and will certify whether or not they
present fairly the financial position of the project; in particular the firm
should satisfy itself as to the existence of assets financed under the
project and of cash and bank balances. The firm should submit a report to
the Project Manager and the Minister on its findings commenting on such
matters as the accounting organization, budgeting control, control by and
over executing agencies, disbursement applications and internal control.
The report will include a specific opinion on the accuracy of statements of
expenditures furnished to support applications for disbursements from the
IDA credit.
2.   Terms of Reference for a Works Manager for Village Nater Supplies
Under the direction of the Sine Saloum Provincial Wlater Supply
Officer, he would be responsible for:
(a) undertaking a well inventory and keeping it up-to-date;
(b) organizing procedures for control, regular maintenance and timely
repair of vehicles and equipment of the Pural Water Supply Section
of the Sine Saloum base;
(c) organizing procedures for stock control;
(d) planning the phasing of work at all work sites;
(e) managing and supervising all work sites, with special attention
paid to well deepening.
He would have the following specific executive functions, to:
(a) approve the statements of work accomplished for forwarding to
the Project Manager for payment;
(b) approve the statements of salaries;
(c) sign all purchase orders;
(d) be consignatory of an imprest account maintained at Kaolack.
The main qualifications and experience of the Works Manager would be:
(a) hydrogeologist, mining engineer, geologist or similar level;
(bh. practical experience for-at least five years in the management of
well construction and deepening, preferably in the Sahel;
(c) good knowledge of French.



ANNEX 2
- 37 -                                                       T      N
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS
Project Costs by Subproject and by Year
FOREIGN
Project Component                       Py 1           PY 2           PY 3            PY 4           TOTAL            TOTAL        EXCHANGE
------------ (CFAF million)-------------------------                      (US$ '000)         (M)
Investments                                  26             85             85             85             281              1338             55
Incremental Inputs                           --             22             23             23              68               324             65
Operating Costs                              21             21             21             21               84              400             3
Sub-Total                                47            128             129            129             433              2062             51
Small Vegetable Perimeters
Investments                                  52             62             73             --             187               890             60
Incremental Input:s                         --               2              3               3               8                38            65
Operating Costs                               2              4              6               6              18                86             il
Sub-Total                                 54             68             82              9             213              1015             56
Small Banana Perimelcers
Investments                                   4             68             90             14              176              838             53
Incremental Inputis                          --             --             --             12               12                57            65
Operating Costs                                3              7              7              6              23               110            17
Sub-Total                                  7             75             97             32             211              1005             50
Beekeeping
Investmfents                                  9              6              4               4              23               110            42
Operating Costs                              --             --             --               1               1                 5            60
Sub-Total                                  9              6              4              5              24               114             44
Fishing
Investments                                   1             il              5               5              22               105            44
Sub-Total                                 1             1                5              5              22               105             44
Village Water Suppliies
Investments                                  92             57             73             66              288              1371            45
Works Manager                                18             17             18              18              70               333           100
Sub-Total                               110             7.4             91             83             358               1704            55
Project Management
Salaries - local staff                       19             21             23             23               86               410             °
-expatriates                       33             33             33             33             132                629           100
Vehicles, Furnitture and Equipment           23             --             --             --               23               110            68
Training                                     10              8              8               7              33               157            20
Accounting and Atudit                         6              4               3              4              17                81              °
Overheads and Travelling                     26             26             26              26             104               495             44
Sub-Total                               117              92             93             93             395               1881            50
Non-Identified ProjetctS                        --             232            463            232             927               4414            52
Refunding PPA                                    31             --             --             --              31                147            50
Total Base Cos:ts                       376            686             966            588            2614             12450             52
Physical Contingencies                            9             22             24             10              65                310            55
Expected Price Increases                         15             58            104            104             281               1340            52
Grand Total                             400        _   766            1092            702            2960              14100            52
Source: Working Paper,No. 5 Tableas 1-9.



- 38 -                                                 ANNEX 2
Table 2
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS
Project Financing by Expenditure
TOTAL        GOVERNMENT       BNDS           BENEFICIARIES        FAC           IDA
__ ___________________---(CFAF '°°°)--------------------------
Small Perimeters
Investments                                281,435       14,072 (5%)                                                       267,363
Incremental Inputs                          67,772       18,451          21,120         28,201
Operating Costs                             83,644       83,644
Sub Total                               432,851      116,167          21,120         28,201                             267,363
Vegetables
Investments                                187,209        9,360 (5%)                                                       177,849
Incremental Inputs                           7,920          --                           7,920
Operating Costs                             17,732       17,732
Suh Total                              212,861        27,092                          7,920                             177,849
Bananas
Investments                                175,840        8,792 (5%)                                                       167,048
Incremental Inputs                          11,920        2,590           4,928          4,402
Operating Costs                             23,447       23,447
Sub Total                              211,207        34,829           4,928          4,402                            167,048
Beekeeping
Investments                                 23,210        1,160 (5%)                                                        22,050
Operating Costs                                726          726
Sub Total                                23,936        1,886                                                             22,050
Fishing
Investments                                 21,560        1,078 (5%)                                                        20,482
Sub Total                                21,560        1,078 (5%)                                                        20,482
Village Water Supplies
Investments                                287,905       14,395 (5%)                                                       273,510
Supervision                                 70,224          --                                                              70,224
Sub Total                               358,129       14,395                                                           343,734
Project Management
Salaries - local staff                      87,412       87,412
- expatriates                    132,000                                                           66,000         66,000
Vehicles, Furniture & Equipmnent            23,045        1,152 (5%)                                                        21,893
Training                                    33,000        1,650 (5%)                                                        31,350
Accounting and Audit                        17,050          852 (5%)                                                        16,198
Overhead and Travelling                    103,840        5,192 (5%)                                                        98,648
Sub Total                              396,347       96,258                                              66,000        234,089
Non - Identified Projects                    926,736      148,278 (16%)                                                      778,458 (84%)
Refunding PPA                                 31,240                                                                          31,240
Total Base Costs                           2,614,867      439,983          26,048         40,523               66,000     2,042,313
Physical Contingencies                        65,012        3,251                                                             61,761
Expected Price Increases                     280,828       50,041           5,639          8,575               10,647        205,926
Grand Total                                2,960,707      493,275          31,687         49,098               76,647     2,310,000
US$'OOO                                       14,099        2,349             151            234                  365         11,000
Source: Working Paper 5, Tables 9 and 11



SENEGAL
SMALL RuRAL PROJECTS                                     ANNEX 2
Project Financing by vear
Table 3
PY 1             PY 2             PY 3             PY 4           Total
(CFAF -OOO)-___________-___________
Government
Base Cost Estimate                                   58,026          112,457          155,879          113,621          439,983
Physical Contingencies                                  425            l , iU            1.9&              518             3,251
Expected  Price iLncreases                            2,484            9,234           16.512           21.811           50,041
Total                                            60.93512,gpr                      173S85                             1, 2 7
BNDS
Base Cost Estimate                                                     7,040            7,040           11,968           26,048
Expected Price Increases                                                 850            1 402            3^.387           5,6 q
Total                                                               7.&9Q           8.442            15.355           31.687
Beneficiaries
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Cost Estimate                                                    11,600           12,040           16.883            40,523
Expected Price Increases                                               1.400            2.397            4.778            8.5 75
Total                                                             13,000          1.437             21.661           49.098
FAC
Base Cost Estimate                                   16,500           16,500           16,500           16,500            66,000
Expected Price Increases                                701            1,992            3.285            4.669           10.647
Total                                            17,201           18.492           19.785            21,169           76.647
IDA
Base Cost Estirmate                                301,828          538,939           772,224          429,272        2,042,313
Physical Contingencies                               8,077           21,159            22,682            9.843           61.761
Price Increases                   _1143                          _ 44,120             80,770            69,193          205,926
Total                                           321,748          604268           875,676           508,308        2,310,000
Total       Base Costs                               376,354          686,586          963,683           588,244        2,614,869
Contingencies - Physical                   8,502           22,273           23,876           10,361           65,012
- Price                    15,028           57,595          104,366          103,839          280,828
Grand Total                                          399,884           766,454       1,091925            702.444        2.960.707
Source: Working Paper 5, Tables 9 and 11



- 40-                                        ANNEX 2
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS                                    Table  4
IDA Disbursement Categories and Schedule
Disbursement                                  Disbursement                              Base Cost                       Rounded for
Categories                                    Percentage                (CFAF millon)              (US$ '000)            Schedule
(US$'000)
I. Small Rice Perimeters
Civil works, surveys, vehicles
and equipment, and tree planting         95                        267                     1,271                 1,300
II- Smail Vegetable Perimeters
Civil works, vehicles, and equipment  95                            178                      848                   900
III. Small Banana Perimeters
Civil works, vehicles and
equipment,and first year's
operation of each perimeter             95                        167                       795                   900
IV. Beekeeping
Civil works, vehicles and
equipment                               95                         22                       105                   100
V. Fishing
Boats and equipment                     95                         21                       100                   100
VI. Village Water Supplies
Civil works, surveys, vehicles
and equipment                           95                        274                     1,305                 1,400
VII. Project Management
Vehicles and equipment, training and
audit, consultancy, office accomodation,
operating costs, and travel              95                        168                       800                   900
VIII. Expatriate Staff                           100                        136                       648                   600
IX. Refunding PPA                             100                         --                       162                   162
X. Non-identified Projects
Civil works, surveys, vehicles, equip_ 95                           778                     3,705                 3,000
ment, and other associated costs to
be specified                                                                                                        650
XI. Initial Paymient intoSpecial Account        85                                                                       6
XII. Unallocated                                 --                       268                     1,276                    988
Total                                                              2,310                    11,000                11,000
IDA Disbursement Schedule
Ouarterly        Cumulative
----(US$ million-
FY 1981 lst Quarter            0.8                0.8
2nd                    -                 0.8
3rd                   0.4                1.2
4th                   0.4                1.6
FY 1982 Ist Quarter            0.7                2.3
2nd                   0.7                3.0
3rd                   0.8                3.8
4th                   0.9                4.7
FY 1983 lst Quarter            0.9                5.6
2nd                   0.9                6.5
3rd                   0.9                7.4
4th                   0.9                8.3
FY 1984 lst Quarter            0.8                9.1
2nd                   0.7                9.8
3rd                   0.5               10.3
4th                    0.4              10.7
FY 1985 lst Quarter            0.3               11.0



-41 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 5
SElEGAL
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS
Beneficiaries' Incomes
Gross       Input          Capital Replacement          Total        Net
Income      Cost       Initial  /      Annuity 2/       Cost       Income
-__;______- _______  _   ( CFAF '000)----------------------------
Small Rice Perimeters
Per Family (0.5 ha)
Year 1                             69          41            1                8            50         19
Year 2 on                         1055/        41             -               9            50         55
Small Vegetable Perimeters
Per Family (0.1 ha)
Year 1                             77          22            5               31            58         19
Year 2                            124          26             -              36            62         62
Year 3 on                         193   /      33             -              36            69        124
Small Barana Perimeters
Per FamilY (01 ha)
Year  1                                         -5 _          1               8              9        f9)
Year 2                            150          59             -               9             68        82
Year 3 on                         150           59            _               9             68        82
Beekeeping per Family
(5 hives)
Year 1                             30           8            1                7            16         14
Year 2                             50           8             -               8            16         34
Year 3 on                          68   /       8             -               8            16         52
Fishing Fer Young Yen
(0.2 boat)
Year 1                            360         160           10               54           224        136
Year 2 on                         360         160             -              64           224        136
Source: Working Papeir 4, Table 1
ij  Initial payment into the capital replacement account: 5% of delivered and installed cost of the
medium-term asset.
g/  28% of initial cost at end-year 1, 33% of initial cost at the end of the next three years:
replacement cycle then begins again.
G/ Cross income increases due to yield improvement, inputs constant.
G J  ross income increases due to yield improvement and improved cropping intensity- latter
requjires more inputs.
/ Planitation in Year 1, no income and no input costs but the required labor input is 240 days;
may or may net entail cash costs for hired labor for 5'normal" farming activities
depending on how the family organizes its labor use; subsequent labor input is 66 days per year.
/ Gcross income increases due to yleld improvement, inputs constant.
,/ For a family that fully adopts the specialized breeding herd option; all values ore incremental
with respect to x;ithout-project pastoralism; linear growth of gross income and input costs other
than water over five years; most families would not fully adopt specialized breeding and incomes
would be between A and B (see 1l/).
O Of which tubewell operation 9.
5/ An exception to the initial contribution rule; set on the basis of estimated will]ingness to pay
and treated as pre-payment towards tubewell operating costs.
Io/ Six-year annuity ta replace the engine, watering troughs and piping. equivalent to 28% per year
of their initial cost.
11/ For a family that does not change its production technique.



ANNEX 2
SENEGAL                               Table 6
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS
Government Cash Flow
PY 1     PY 2      PY 3      PY 4     PY 5      PY 6 - 10      PY 11 - 20
Inflow                         -------------(CFAF trillions)-----------------------------------------
IDA Credit 1/                 322      604       876       508
FAC Grant 1/                   17        18       20        21
BNDS 1/ 2/                                8        8        15
Beneficiaries 1/ 2/                      13       14        2-.
Indirect Taxes 3/                                                     30           30             30
Total                         339      643       918       566        30           30             30
Outflow
Project Costs 4/              400       766    1,092       702
Post-project Costs 5/                                                 65           65             65
IDA Service Charges 6/          1        3         9        12       15           17              40
Total                         401       769    1,101       714        80           82            105
Surplus (Deficit)
Annual                        (62)    (126)    (183       (148)      (50)         (52)           (75)
Cumulative                    (62)    (188)    (371)    (519)    (569)           (829)       (1,579)
1/  Per Working Paper No. 5, Table 11.
2/ Incremental inputs only
3/ Assuming 50% of incremental net income spent on goods taxed at 20% inflated to PY 5 at 7% a year.
4/ Per Working Paper No. 5, Table 8.
5/ Working Paper No. 5, Table 10, of which fertilizer subsidies CFAF 43 million
6/  0.75% of average disbursements outstanding years 1 - 10 plus 1% per year of principal years 11 - 20.
Source: Working Paper 5, Tables 10 and 13.
>   .                                                        f       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 43 -                                        ANNEX 2
SENEGAL                                      Table 7
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS
Prices of Overseas-Traded Outputs
Rice         Maize          Bananas                     Tomato
Paste
------------------- -- (1979 US$/ton
FOB 1985 Reference Price 1/             460.0          165.0           325.0                      780.1
Quality Adjustment 2/                  (207.0)          31.3            26.0                       39.0
Ocean Freight and Insurance 3/           54.3           43.4            60.0                       96.8
CIF Dakar                               307.3          239.7           411.0                      915.9
----------- ------- (CFAF '000/ton) --        
CIF Dakar 4/                             67.6           52.7            90.4                      201.5
Port handling to Dakar warehouse 5/       6.5            6.5             3.5                       40.0
Transport (to)/from Dakar 6/              9.0            9.0           (10.0)                      (6.2)
Wholesale value Dakar/locally            83.1           68.2            83.9                      235.3
Unprocessed equivalent 7/                54.0           68.2            78.2                       42.4
Processing Cost 8/                        (-)            (-)            (5.0)                     (17.6)
Primary marketing costs 9/                (2.7)         (3.4)           (3.9)                      (2.8)
By-product value 10/                      5.1            6.5              -                          -
Economic farmgate price                  56.4           71.3            75.0                       22.0
Price used in economic'analysis          55             71              75                         22
Note:
Economic Farmgate Price 1979 Basis 11/   50             60              71                         22
Official Producer Price 1979 Rarvest     41.5           37              75 12/                     15
ActualProducerprices 1979                50             50              75                         60
Price used in farm budgets               41.5           37              75                         15
Economic Farmgate Prices 13/
1985 Basis/1979 Basis -                1.12           1.17            1.06                       1.00
1990 Basis/1985 Basis                  1.03           1.02            0.96
1/ Rice: Thai 5% broken, FOB Bangkok; Maize: US No. 2 Yellow, Fub  uut ports;
Bananas: Central and South America, FOB in 40-lb boxes; Tomato Paste: FOB, NW Europe,
5kg cans, per Report No. 1685a-SE, Appraisal of the Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project,
converted from 1978 terms to 1979 terms at 1.086 plus currency conversion.
2/ Rice: 45% discount, the average price relationship between brokens and 5% broken;
Maize: 15% premium (on FOB and ocean freight and insurance) to reflect consumer preference
for local coarse grains over imported feedgrains; Bananas: 8% premium to allow for purchase
in small lots; Tomato paste: 5% premium for small lot purchase.
3/ Rice: actual 1978 bulk grain rates were about US$ 50/ton; converstion from 1978 to 1979
constant terms at 1.086; Maize: actual 1978 bulk grain rates were about US$40/ton;
conversion at 1.086; Bananas: estimated; Tomato Paste: 1978 rates per Debi-Lampsar converted
at 1.086 plus currency conversion; for all commodities: no real price change assumed after
1979.
4/ CFAF 220: US $1.00
5/ CFAF 3,500/ton plus, for rice and maize, bagging at CFAF 3,000/ton; Tomato Paste:
per Debi-Lampsar.
6/ Rice and Maize: 450 km (Thille Boubacar)  from Dakar, CFAF 20/ton-km; Bananas:  500 km
(Sedhiou)to Dakar, CFAF 20/ton-km; Tomato Paste: 310 km (Savoigne)from Dakar,CFAF20/ton-km.
7/ Paddy: 65%; Tomatoes: 18%.
8/ Paddy: hand-processed; Maize: hand-shelled or consumed on-the-cob;-Bananas: grading
and packing; Tomato paste: processing CFAF 14,000/ton, cans CFAF 3,600/ton.
9/ 5% of wholesale value unprocessed equivalent: Tomatoes: 140 km at CFAF 20/ton-km.
10/  Rice and maize: stubble for grazing, husks and shells for fuel ; 10% of primary
market value.
11/  Using 1979 Reference Prices (in 1979 US$/ton): rice: 388.9; maize 120.0
bananas 3 2.5 ; Tomato Paste: 780.1.
12/  CFAF 91/kg less rejects and transport to Dakar.
13/  Ratios show expected real price movements; Tomato Paste: not available for 1990.



- 44 -
ECONOMIC COSTS BENEFITS AND RATES OF RETURN                                                        IaNEX 2
Table 8
Years    1           2          3          4        5        6        7              Year 1Il/
------------------------------CFAF' million)>-----------------------------
Smail Rice Perimeters
Incremental Coste                  51        147        148       181        86      124      142               132
Incremental Benefits               -          -          49       122      195      219       219               219
Net Benefits                      (51)      (147)       (99)       (59)    109        95       77                87
smeotI Vegetable Ferimetere
Incremental Caste                  61         81        101        26       42        40       43                27
Incremental  aenefits              -           8         22        45       60        70       70                70
Net Benefits                      (61)       (73)       (79)        19       18       30       27                43
Small Banana Perimeters
Incremental Coste                   8         91        118        58       54        63       66                53
Incremental Benefite              -           -          -         53      113      113       113               113
Net Benefits                       (3)       (91)      (118)        (5)      59       50       47                6o
Beekeeping
Incrementa1 Caste                  il          7          5          6        2        3        3                 3
Incremental Benefits               -           1          2          4        5        6        7                 7
INet Benefits                     (11)        (6)         (3)       (2)       3        3        4                 4
Feihing
Incremental Casts                   1         12         14         19       24       21       27                23
Incrementai Benefits              -           -          18        27        36       36       36                36
N4et Benefite                      (1)       (12)          4         8       12       15        9                15
Total of the above
Incremental Casts                132         338        386       290       208      251      281               238
Incremental Benefits               -           9         91       251       409      444      444               444
Net Banefits                     (132)      (329)       (295)      (39)    201       193      163               206
Project Management
50% of Incremental Costs           50         39         39         39       -        -        -                 -
Unidentif ied
incremental Costsl.'               49        143        306       344       229      164      198               188
lacremental Benefits               -          -           7         72      198      323      351               351
Net Benefits                      (49)      (143)      (299)      (272)    (31)    159        153               163
Total
Incremental Cots                 (231)      (520)      (731)    (673)   (437)  (415)    (479)                  (426)
Incremental Benefite               -           9         98       323       607      767      795               795
Net Benefits                     (231)      (511)       (633)    (350)    170        352      316               369
Economic Rates of Return
se -~-~ -  ZiE60w l-ro h?flts3F142Z     -~ -.o6 up    a%                              b  ets Lggen rTN'ar
_   ()-3/      (_        ca   e )L-(b)L/   kc Wl_                                 (a)3       b)-4/   (c ).Sel
îimall Bice Perimeters                18.1                13.0        5.1      28                13.5       4.6      25                 11.7       6.4      35_/
nmasl VegetabIs Perimeters            12.2.                 9.4       2.8      23                 9.6       2.6      21                  9.1       3.1      25
Sma1  BNnans Perimetere               18.5                i4.6        3.9      21                15.0       3.5      19                13.2        5.3      29
Beekeening                            12.0                  9.5       2.5      21                 9.7       2.3      19                  9.2       2.8      23
Fiehineg                              59.8                 44.5      15.3      26                46.0      13.8       23               26.3       35.6      56W
Sum of the above                      17.4                 13.1       4.3      25                13.5        3.9      22                11.9       5.5      32
Sum of above with
503 of management coste               14.5                 10.6       3,9      27                10.9        3.6      25                10.0       4.5      31
Unitdejti! ted, wiLth 50%
of management costs                   13.1                  9.3       3.8      29                 9.7       3.4       26                 8.9       4.2      32
Total with 100% of
management costs                      14.1                 10.2       3.9      28                10.6        3.5      25                 9.7       4.4      31
1/ Representation of years 8 through 20.
2/  Including reraining 50% of pwject management costs.  Other costs and benefitc   estimated pro reta with ehare of appraised
and unidentified subprojects in project casts, legged by one year, it being assumed that the rate of return to the unidentlfied
subprojects is virtually the same as for the five appraised subprojects.
3/  Economic rate of retutn for  the condition specified
4/  Absolute decline frem base case.
5/ Percentage declise from base case;
6/  The timing of benefits and cants is not independent to the extent that coste are for recurrnet Inputi   and the lag between
such expenditures and the ensutng benefits is short; thia ia particularly the case in fishing.



- 45 -                                ANNEX III
SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
A.l  Etude dLu Projet de Petites Aides au Monde Rural, SONED September 1978
(4 volumes) plus Addendum, December 1978.
A.2  Projet Petites Aides au Monde Rural, SONED, May 30, 1979 (supplementary
feasibïlity studLy).
B.   Working Papers
1. Technical aLnd Managerial Aspects of Small Scale Irrigation (in French)
A.   Small Rice Perimeters
B.   Small Vegetable Perimeters
C.   Small Banana Perimeters
2.   Technical and Managerial Aspects of Rural Water Supplies (in French)
A.   Village Water Supplies
B.   Criteria and Method for Choice of Type of Open Well
3.   Structure and Procedures for the Small Rural Projects Cycle (in French)
4.   Financial Arrangements and Results
5.   Project Costs and Financing
6.   Economic ArLalysis






SENEGAL
SMALL RURAL PROJECTS
ORGANIZATION CHART
Ministry of Rural                                           Ministry of Public                         Ministryo     l                Ministry  of           [    Mnistrv of                       Other
Development                                                   Works and Water |Human Affairs                                            Interior                      Finance                      Ministries
vestoc           Fsers                   Water Supply                                                          |
SAED  RDÇ          SOMVAC  D1        e artente       Department                Department                         |      Proiect
l  I   l     l   lL- Management
River     e  n        ~~Cusmance        Casamance           LougaeiaSaon
{~ ~ ~~~n    Oum        Csmne||Csmac                                 og                    Sine Saloum                                                        rovincialevelopment Committees (8)
P| ovo           in    o          Province         Province         Province                   Province
Provincial Supervisors, Rural Development Centers
Provincial Representatives of Technical Agencies
maI            Sal              Smaul
Rice     l    Vegetable         Banana         Beekeeping          Fishing               Annual Program 
Perimters        Perim eters     Perimenters                                                   b  Dis-Prct
Chief, Rural Development Center
Local Representatives of Technical Agencies
Presidents of Rural Community Councils
|   |               |                 | ~~~~~~~~~~~Well Construction                                                uri abu  mmunit pe000poupcle)s
l   l               g                 ! ~~~~~~~~~~~and Subsequent !ot40 i                                                     tper 10,00  eop-
|Technical Secretary (Chief, Rural Developrnent
Groups of Producers                                                                                                                   r  _
----Technical Service Agreements
World Bank - 21019






'W            SENEGAL                                                                               M  A U R  ' T  A  N'   A
-SMALL'RURAL PROJECTS                                                                              ~O?t 
SMALL RICE PERIMETERS
SMALL VEGETA8LE PERIMETERSS
SMALL RANANA PERIMETERSSE                                                                                                                                                                   L
BEEKEEPIN BA
iDFISHING EOATrS                                    s    /          o    ue                                               4_                                                 0      re ir                      Yao_- 
-16 5          VILLAGE WATER SUPPLYEA5E BAS .E,o                                                                                                                                                                  Coa,î tana v,
11é  >   <                o          \                             >          <             050 D 0    ~~~~~~           ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A t / t  2  Crere  
POPIJLaTION DENSITY  K.e                                                                                                                                                                                               Eq. R-
!i  2  4a
O YO 20 30 40 'iO 60 70 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~./Q80 010 "dr <__, O/lray
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,e OTo>                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sor_G    N are AStt;.    , ;C_; 
SAVEb.  BOATS
K,d..~ ~~~~~~~~..Rark
-.ITRNAVLIONAD  BmNARE
CONSIAUCTION  Tit#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UTBOr1/



