Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19990-RW
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.1 MILLION
(US$ 35.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FORA
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 8, 2000
Human Development, Group IV
Country Department 9
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 8, 2000)
Currency Unit = RWF (Rwanda Franc)
RWF I = US$ 0.0028
US$ 1 = RWF 359
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank                               NCB            National Competitive Bidding
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy                            NEC            National Examination Council/Center
CDA            Community Development Agent                            NGO            Non Govemmental Organization
CDC            Community Development Committee                        NTB            National Tender Board
CDP            Community Devlopment Plan                              NUR            National University of Rwanda
CEAPS          Cellule d'Etude et Appui au Prescolaire                PA             Project Account
CFO            Chief Financial Officer                                PER            Public Expenditure Review
CNDP          National Curriculum Development Center                  PHRD           Policy and Human Resource
CQ             Selection Based on Consultanfs Qualifications                         Development Fund
CRDP          Community Reintegration and Development Project         PIM            Project Implementation Manual
CSRDP          Community-Based School Rehabilitation and              PMR            Project Management Report
Development Program                                    PNLS           Projet National de Lutte contre le SIDA
DFID          Department for International Development (UK)           PPF            Project Preparation Facility
ECCD          Early Childhood Care and Development                    PPN            Project Procurement Notice
EFA           Education For All                                       PPPSNE         Pre-Primary, Primary and Special Needs
EPO           Education Project Office                                               Education
ETO           Ecole Technique Officielle                              PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
FAWE          Forum for African Women Educationalists                 PRA            Participatory Rural Appraisal
FESP           First Education Sector Project                         PTA            Parent Teachers' Association
GPN            General Procurement Notice                             QBS            Qhality-Based Selection
HIPC          Highly Indebted Poor Countries                          QCBS           Quality and Cost-Based Selection
IBRD          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and                RHRDP          Rwanda Human Resource Development
Development                                                           Project
ICB            International Competitive Bidding                      RWF            Rwandan Francs
ICR            Implementation Completion Report                       SA             Special Account
ICT           Information and Computer Technology                     SFB            Selection under a Fixed Budget
IDA           Intemational Development Association                    SIL            Sector Investment Loan
KHI           Kigali Health Institute                                 SNE            Special Needs Education
KIE            Kigali Institute of Education                          SOE            Statement Of Expenditure
KIST          Kigali Institute of Science and Technology              SPN            Special Procurement Notices
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative                   SWAP           Sector Wide Approach Program
LCS            Least Cost Selection                                   SWIP           Sector Wide Investment Program
LIL            Leaming and Innovation Loan                            TTC            Teacher Training College
MIJESCOP    Ministry of Youth, Sports and Culture                     UNESCO         United Nations Educational andCultural
MINAFASO    Minstry of Social Affairs                                                Organization
MINALOC        Ministiy of Local Govemment                            UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
MINEDUC       Ministry of Education                                   UNDP           United Nations Development
MINISANTE   Ministry of Health                                                       Programme
MTEF          Medium Term Expenditure Framework                       UPE            Universal Primary Education
NBF            Not Bank-Financed
Vice President:         Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager/Director:             Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Peter Ngomba



RWANDA
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      11
3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           17
2. Financial                                                                          1 9
3. Technical                                                                          20
4. Institutional                                                                      20
5. Environment                                                                        23
6. Social                                                                             23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25
2. Critical risks                                                                     26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     26



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             27
2. Other                                                                               27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           29
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            43
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     52
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        53
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    66
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             69
Annex I 1: Update of Country Situation                                                    71
MAP(S)



RWANDA
Human Resources Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH4
Date: May 8, 2000                                Team Leader: Peter N. Ngomba
Country Manager/Director: Emmanuel Mbi           Sector Manager/Director: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: P045091                              Sector(s): EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
El Loan       [Z Credit        L Grant        El Guarantee    Oi Other (Specify)
For LoanstCredits/Others:
Amount (USSm): US$ 35 million
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                             Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0                                    Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Sourie                                   Local        Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                    2.07           0.00          2.07
IDA                                                           12.03         22.97         35.00
Total:                                                        14.10         22.97         37.07
Borrower: GOVERNMENT
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY          200 1       2002,        2003        004        200(
Annual     3.0          6.0         11.0        9.0         6.0
Cumulative     3.0          9.0        20.0        29.0        35.0
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PAD F-n, Rev. Maeh, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objective of this project is to assist Rwanda in its efforts to develop and implement a sustained
program of capacity building through education and skills development in order to redress human resources
deficiencies and develop a critical mass of trained human resources. Specific actions will be geared
towards: (i) increasing access to primary and secondary education through the involvement of local
communities in school rehabilitation and construction; (ii) improving the quality of primary and secondary
education; (iii) heightening awareness of HIV/AIDS and promoting behavioral change prevention strategies
among children and youth; (iv) building capacity within the education sector and the overall economy
including support for the provision of focused training in key areas; and (v) undertaking analytical work
and experimentation in preparation for a Sector-Wide Investment Program.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators include the following: (i) at least ten sub-projects planned and executed by
local communities every year until the end of the project; (ii) in-service training provided to 1000 teachers
every other year until the end of the project; (iii) primary pupil/textbook ratio of 2:1 in mathematics and
one teacher's guide per teacher by 2004; (iv) at least 70% of schools with functioning anti-AIDS clubs by
the end of the project, with an approach appropriately targeting girls and boys; (v) an average of at least
20% of planned training programs executed every year until the end of the project; and (vi) Sector-Wide
Investment Program prepared and adopted, and implementation initiated by the end of the project.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS document number: IDA/R99-135                    Date of latest CAS
discussion: 06/29/99
The CAS Progress Report (June 1999) for Rwanda identifies the acute lack of human capacity, poor health
standards, and the high prevalence of HIV/AIDS as major constraints to fighting poverty. The Government
has put very high priority on human development - education, training, knowledge development, and all
aspects of health including sanitation, nutrition and population. In education and related fields, the
immediate priorities are to: (i) strengthen primary and secondary education, with relevant curricula,
instructional materials, trained teachers and better resource management; and (ii) address the shortage of
skilled manpower by improving quality and relevance at tertiary levels, and strengthening education in
science, technology, management and vocational training. The project supports the two CAS goals in
education and the HIV/AIDS prevention effort. During the CAS progress report discussion in June 1999,
it was agreed to provide a concise update on the situation in Rwanda in the context of presenting the last
operation in FY00. This update is in annex 11.
-2-



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Capacity Constraints: Rwanda is recovering from tragic human and economic destruction that has few
parallels in history. The country's human resource base, institutional capacity, and economic and social
infrastructure were devastated by the war and genocide of 1994. Large population movements into and
back from neighboring countries have continued to cause disruptions. Building the capacity to manage
effective government services is critical to Rwanda's recovery and transformation. Capacity constraints are
acute and a major factor constraining efforts to improve Rwanda's public sector management and the
productivity and competitiveness of its private sector. Major additional investments are necessary to
expand social sector provision and to improve quality of service provision.
Education sector issues: The war and genocide of 1994 had a major impact on the education sector in
terms of its impact on children and young adults and its impact on the education system. The average gross
enrollment ratio at the primary education level dropped from about 80% before the crisis to around 40%
during the crisis and is only now slowly recovering. In 1997, the average gross enrollment ratio was about
70%. In addition, the quality of education provided by the public school system is a major cause for
concern. Between 1991 and 1996, and as a direct result of the genocide, the percentage of qualified
primary school teachers dropped from about 59% to 33%. Furthermore, only 28% of the need in school
books for teachers is covered, while textbooks for students are also in even shorter supply.
Other problems within the education sector include the: (i) low and uneven distribution of intake capacity;
(ii) inadequate information and planning systems; (iii) shortage of students in priority disciplines; (iv) high
wastage rates (high repetition and dropout rates) and poor adaptation of curricula; and (v) highly
centralized system of management. Success rates in national examinations and overall quality remain
limited at all levels and all sub-sectors.
Post-conflict issues: The war and genocide of 1994 resulted in an erosion of social capital which
encompasses those organizations, networks, and unwritten mores and rules that facilitate coordinated action
and enable people to undertake.cooperative ventures for mutual advantage. Since coming to power in
1994, and in particular since the massive return of refugees in 1996/1997, the Government of Rwanda
faces internal and regional security issues that remain a threat to peaceful development. Since 1998, the
country's internal security situation has improved dramatically. National reconciliation is a central theme
in the Government's agenda which recognizes that persistent efforts must be made to reach out to
communities and social groups in order to build an environment of partnership and mutual trust.
In the post-genocide era, the reintegration of vulnerable groups such as, female heads of household,
unaccompanied children, orphans, out-of-school youth, internally displaced people and returnees, is a major
challenge for the Government of Rwanda. Innovative, quick-impact, non-formal education and training
programs are required to provide vulnerable groups with the skills needed to meet their own survival needs
and contribute to the development of their communities and the country as whole. The rebuilding of
Rwanda's social and economic fabric is also dependent on the development of capacities at the national and
local levels for justice and governance, and for dealing with the psychological impact of the conflict and
diffusing messages of peace, ethnic tolerance and respect for human rights.
Public expenditure issues: One reason for the trends and inadequacies within the education sector is that
the conflict in the early nineties culminating in the genocide of 1994, has caused the allocation of public
funds to be less oriented towards basic social services and poverty reduction and more towards security
expenditures. In recent years, however the social sectors have become a priority for the Government of
Rwanda with budgeted expenditures increasing substantially in the 2000 budget. Unfortunately, actual
-3 -



expenditures are very low in comparison to needs. Reduced donor support for education following the
1994 Genocide, and its slow resumption since, have exacerbated the problem. Compounding the generally
low levels of overall education expenditure, the intra-sectoral allocation between the primary, secondary
and tertiary sub-sectors, and the allocation between salary and non-salary recurrent expenditures have not
been adequate. The situation has however been improving in recent years.
Poverty issues: The profile of poverty, measured in terms of household expenditure, has worsened rapidly
since the beginning of the crisis in the early nineties. More than 50 percent of all Rwandans live below the
poverty line (see annex 10). The incidence of both rural and urban poverty have increased while poverty
depth is estimated to be among the highest in sub-Saharan Africa. Typically, the poorest households are
those with the least access to education and health, thus perpetuating the inter-generational cycle of
poverty.
Gender Dimensions: Following the Genocide in Rwanda, a large proportion of the population is now
female; a large percentage of women are widows, and 50% of all households are headed either by women
or children. While the female primary enrollment rate remains high, only a small proportion of Rwandan
girls and women move on to higher education. Thus, while primary school girls are estimated to be about
51% of the total number of students, the figure drops to 15% in upper secondary school and only 10% at
the university and other tertiary education institutions.
A number of socio-economic and cultural factors have been identified as contributing to this sharp decline
in female enrollment rates at higher secondary and tertiary levels. Given their multiple roles, women
generally find it difficult to make time for their own education or the education of their children. Other
factors include: (a) the high cost of school fees and school uniforms, (b) distance to school, (c) lack of
gender awareness among educators, (d) curricula and materials biased towards boys,, and (e) lack of
confidence in girls' academic abilities.
Given the preponderant role of women in Rwanda's social and economic development, the government is
committed to ending all forms of discrimination, improving the access of girls and women to social and
economic opportunities and services, increasing enrollment, retention and progression of girls in
educational institutions, and strengthening non-formal education geared towards the needs of rural women.
HIV/AIDS and the need for AIDS Education, Prevention, Counseling and Testing: The problem of
AIDS, initially regarded as a health issue, has become a major development constraint for countries like
Rwanda. Since the discovery of the first cases of AIDS in Rwanda in 1983, the infection has spread
throughout the country. From a 1997 survey, 1 1. I percent of the population 12 years old and above,
approximately half a million persons, was found to be seropositive. An estimated 22,000 people between
15 and 49 years of age died of AIDS in 1998. In Rwanda as elsewhere, HIV prevalence is not uniformly
distributed, with high rates among females between 25 and 34 years of age (20 percent infected), males
between 40 to 49 years (18 percent), commercial sex workers, people with sexually transmitted diseases
and military personnel. Involuntary migration, war, poor education, and separation of families, are
catalysts for HIV infection. However, among men, HIV infections are also higher for wealthy and
well-educated middle age groups.
The last twelve years have witnessed efforts by the Government, with the support from its external
partners, including the World Bank, to monitor and stem the spread of AIDS. Campaigns have been
organized to promote public awareness on its prevention. Notwithstanding these efforts, progress has been
slow. This is in part due to the low level of human, material and financial resources allocated to the health
sector and the lack of an adequate AIDS education and prevention strategy. However, to a large extent,
-4 -



slowing the transmission of HIV resides outside the realm of health services. Approaches that induce
behavioral changes are essential and this requires the active involvement of various key sectors in the
development process. Among these, education, in particular HIV/AIDS education and prevention, is key.
Donor Coordination: Currently, donor support for the education sector in Rwanda is fragmented. There
is a need for donor coordination. The Government has developed a framework for improved donor
coordination, and for interaction between donors and government. The Rwanda Human Resource
Development Project (RHRDP) is envisaged as a precursor to a broader Sector-Wide Approach (SWAP)
that will coordinate all donor education assistance in support of the policies and strategies elucidated in the
Ministry of Education's Policy Framework. As such, it will help reduce the fragmentation of human and
financial resources brought by multiple and disparate donor projects.
Government strategy: The Government of Rwanda has set objectives and targets for improving access
and quality of education and training in all sub-sectors. The government plans to: (i) raise net primary
school enrollment ratios from 65% in 1998 to 80% by the year 2005 and 95% by 2010, through the
strengthening of teaching personnel, the mobilization of internal resources and raising awareness of parents
regarding the importance of school and the improvement of internal efficiency; (ii) increase secondary
school admissions of primary school leavers from about 35% now to at least 50% by the year 2005, by
encouraging parents to contribute more towards financing their children's education, enhancing the quality
and efficiency of education and adapting technical and vocational training to the real needs of the country;
and (iii) improve admissions to institutions of higher education by increasing the number of places in line
with the needs and capacity of the economy and the job market.
To meet the above targets, the Government of Rwanda has requested IDA support to finance an interim
human resources development operation as a precursor to a sector-wide program (SWAP) to be developed
in a few years. Before a SWAP can be undertaken and attract significant donor attention, a sound and
sustainable policy framework should be fully articulated, costed out, and agreed by all major donors in the
education sector. The Government of Rwanda has taken important steps to this end by undertaking
numerous preparatory studies and producing documents that include sectoral reviews, analyses of
education expenditure, and diagnostic studies of specific educational inputs.
The review of education expenditures is part of a larger Government-wide effort to improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of public expenditures. The Education Public Expenditure Review (PER) has both a
backward looking and a forward looking element. Key elements of the backward look will be budget
execution and performance and assessment of impact on beneficiaries. The forward look, which will use
the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) approach, will consider the appropriateness of
intrasectoral allocation of budget resources in light of sector objectives and priorities. In light of the
existing high unit costs of tertiary education and the presumed scope for cost reductions, the government
plans to take measures to contain the costs of tertiary education. Understanding the nature of high tertiary
expenditures and developing policy options to limit future expenditures is the subject of studies (Higher
Education Unit Cost Study and Higher Education Funding Study) envisaged by the Government.
Meanwhile, under the RHRDP, financing will be set aside to ensure that expenditure and budget
management reviews are undertaken on an ongoing basis. It is expected that the reviews will produce
information that the Ministry will utilize in prioritizing and re-allocating annual expenditures. In
collaboration with the central ministries, the reviews will provide the foundation for an MTEF that matches
expected resources with required expenditures and provides an essential foundation for moving towards a
SWAP that donors can support in future lending.
- 5 -



Furthermore, the Government, aware of the seriousness of HIV/AIDS and the key role of education in
prevention, has established an AIDS unit in the Ministry of Education. Its strategy is to foster
prevention-oriented behavioral change through integration of HIV/AIDS into curricula at all levels of
education; heightened AIDS awareness and promotion of attitude change among education officials,
teachers, students and out-of-school youth; establishment of anti-AIDS clubs in primary and secondary
schools; and development of supporting educational materials.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Rwanda is regarded as a special case for assistance to overcome the legacy of the genocide. As a
consequence of the genocide and conflict of 1994, there are large numbers of children and youth who have
received no education at all. Only 30 percent of children who enter primary school complete it, often
repeating several grades, and very few children enter secondary school. Only about 30 percent of teachers
are trained and the already low human resource capacity (e.g. managers, teachers, administrators) was
lowered even further through loss of life, displacement of people, HIV/AIDS and other factors. As a first
order of importance, the access to, and quality of, education requires urgent improvement.
Since Rwanda is a special case, some immediate quick, short-term interventions are required for the
development of human resources. It is imperative that the short-term interventions do not plant "bad seeds"
and that whatever is done helps overcome difficulties in the long as well as in the short term. For example,
the Govemment has indicated that it wants the Rwandan economy to become more competitive through the
development of value-added services such as data processing. Although Rwanda already has good
telecommunications infrastructure, it lacks human resources. To accomplish its goals, the Rwandan
government will have to ensure that schools and tertiary institutions are able to produce a workforce with
the necessary technology, communications and problem-solving skills.
The overall approach being taken to assist the Rwandan government in meeting the country's human
resource needs, consists of developing a targeted lending operation on a fast-track basis. This project will
serve as an interim or bridging operation between the First Education Sector Project, that closed on
September 30, 1999, and a SWAP to be developed within three to four years. It is clear that country
conditions are conducive to action with strong support and political commitment within Rwanda for
change. Consequently, the country team has chosen to meet the challenge in a flexible, innovative and
responsive way with interventions using community-based approaches, linking a short-term urgent with a
long term development perspective, supporting plans to appropriate innovation and experimentation funds,
and anticipating smooth integration into the forthcoming HIPC initiative.
The project will address many of the post-conflict transition issues facing Rwanda, building on previous
efforts including the emergency program supported by the Emergency Recovery Credit and existing credits
such as the First Education Sector Credit, and the transitional program now supported by the Economic
Recovery Credit (ERC). Support for the introduction of special programs within the regular formal
education system (peace education in schools, mainstreaming of the handicapped into the formal school
system), and-non formal education, will assist the victims of conflict and genocide to rebuild their lives.
Finally, the project will also pursue some of the public expenditure and donor coordination issues that have
been raised in the social sector expenditure study carried out in FY99. Given the fast-track nature of this
operation, no attempt will be made at this point to achieve full donor coordination through a comprehensive
sector investment program but to help build the capacity and lay the foundation for such future
coordination. IDA and DFID are taking the lead and it is expected that other donors will become involved
-6 -



by the time of implementation.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost.
breakdown):
Project Component 1- COMMUNITY-BASED SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM (CSRDP)
The main objective of the CSRDP is to support local community initiatives and demand-driven sub-projects
such as the rehabilitation of classrooms, the provision of equipment, and the construction of new schools.
The grant is part of the first pillar of an education strategy for Rwanda which includes: (i) participation of
communities in the rehabilitation, extension and construction of community primary and secondary schools;
(ii) generation of employment and rural liquidity; and (iii) generation of resources to restore and improve
the delivery of adequate levels of essential private and public education services. This approach is in line
with the Rwandan government's decentralization policy which is currently under preparation. This
component will build on the successful experience under the Bank-financed Community Reintegration and
Development Project (CRDP) which was developed as a learning and innovation loan (LIL). The CSRDP
will comprise the following main activities:
* Development of Community Development Plans (CDPs) through execution of Participatory Rural
Appraisals (PRAs) in some pre-identified communes in marginalized prefectures.
a Construction and equipment of school infrastructure through the Community Development Committees
(CDCs) with an active involvement of the beneficiaries.
e   Strengthening the capacities of communities (including the CDCs) and their nearest local governmients
in participatory planning through training in project cycle management.
i Strengthening the responsiveness and inclusiveness of local governments and their administrative and
fiscal capacity via policy, fiscal, institutional and public administration reform, and via capacity
building of the key institutions in charge of decentralization.
• Provision of support to demand-driven community-based activities for school rehabilitation and
development through the provision of matching grants.
e Monitoring, evaluation and program adaptation.
* Facilitation of the involvement of communities in school management through Parent Teacher
Associations (PTAs).
Project Component 2 - SCHOOL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
The main objective of the School Quality Improvement Program is to raise the quality of education in
Rwanda by improving the quality of inputs to the education system. These inputs are: (a) teachers and the
quality of their training; (b) textbooks and teaching materials; and (c) curricula, supervision, and
monitoring and evaluation. The impact of these inputs on Rwandan education is to be strengthened by
improving working conditions in the classroom, improving personnel management and rationalizing the
objectives and organization of the examinations administered at the end of each cycle.
Teacher training: The program aims to develop and implement a program of in-service teacher training,
including the provision of adequate pedagogical support to all teacher. In order to do so, it will identify the
training needs of teachers in the twelve Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs) and the Kigali Institute of
Education (KIE) and the needs of teachers in schools. A reorganization of the TTCs is envisaged with a
- 7 -



view to providing them with the staff and facilities to carry out formal training of teachers and in-service
training on a regular basis. The overall objective is to reach every teacher once a year with a one or two
week in-service program.
Curriculum development. The program aims to establish a structure charged with initiating, developing,
producing, experimenting, and ensuring the follow-up of all curricula, textbooks, teachers' guides and other
educational materials.
Textbooks and pedagogical materials. The program aims to improve the availability of textbooks through
the provision of mathematics books in Kinyarwanda, French, English and other local languages as well as
to build capacity in textbook writing, illustration, design, distribution, use, and evaluation.
Strengthening the examinations/assessment svstem: In order to ensure that Rwanda's education system has
a clear and objective evaluation mechanism, the program aims to draw up an organizational chart for the
National Examination Council and construct a National Examination Center (NEC).
Improving qualitv of teaching in science and technolo,a: In order to address the new development needs
of Rwanda, the program aims to improve the quality of science teaching through the provision of reference
books for science teaching, the training of teachers, the provision of equipment, including computers and
laboratory equipment, and the development of a National Science and Technology Research Plan.
Project Component 3 - HIV/AIDS
The main objective of the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Education component is to protect children and youth
- both in school and out of school - and teaching staff from the AIDS epidemic. Past programs have
demonstrated the difficulty of changing high risk adult behavior. This effort will attempt to promote
knowledge, ideals, and models of less vulnerable lifestyles among the young. This is part of the
multisectoral approach to HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation in Rwanda. The activities of this
component are grouped into the following categories:
Sensitization activities: Seminars and conferences will be conducted for education officials and local
authorities to increase understanding of the negative impact of AIDS in the country and to enhance
commitment to the key role that education can play in changing lifestyles to reduce risk of HIV
transmission. Students will be informed through class instruction and anti-AIDS clubs.
Curriculum development and teacher training: Facts about HIV/AIDS and life skills for avoiding high
risk situations for HIV infection will be integrated into the curricula of appropriate subjects at all levels
from primary school through university. The Ministry will collaborate with schools in the private sector
and those of NGOs such as the churches.
Materials production and dissemination: To enhance the effectiveness of learning in the classroom as well
as in anti-AIDS clubs, a variety of culture-sensitive materials will be developed, pre-tested and
disseminated. Radio, theater, music and art will be channels of communication as well as written
materials. Out-of-school youth will also be targeted. Examples of materials used in other countries will be
collected and adapted to the Rwanda environment.
-8 -



Strengthening AIDS program management. To manage a much expanded and comprehensive AIDS
prevention program in the Ministry, the project will support: (i) the expansion of MINEDUC's management
and technical capacity with respect to AIDS management through increased staffing, the provision of
technical advisory services, the acquisition of equipment and materials, the provision of training to staff as
well as the organization of study tours abroad on AIDS prevention programs; and (ii) the carrying out of
studies and consultations with donors and other key stakeholders to assess and develop possible curative
HIV/AIDS programs.
Counseling, Caring and Testing: The project will assist students and teachers infected and affected by
HIV/AIDS to access quality counseling, caring and testing through the support of social services, partner
NGOs, and local and regional health facilities. The project will associate student, parent and teacher
associations in the process of strengthening the community based approach to HIV/AIDS prevention and
mitigation in the area.
Project Component 4 - CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM, STUDIES AND DEVELOPMENT OF A
SECTOR WIDE APPROACH (SWAP)
Strengthening capacities for educational management and planning: The program aims to strengthen
capacities for information management in the education system and capacities for formulating and orienting
educational policy by seeking the support of international, regional and national expertise, and conducting
studies and surveys on teaching conditions.
Reinforcing the system of decentralization and general inspectorate: In order to ensure that the system of
decentralization, general inspectorate, and educational follow-up are performing well through regular
school visits and the provision of methodological advice to teachers, the program will equip the inspection
team with logistical materials, train inspectors, equip certain municipal inspectors' offices and provide
transport for the general inspectorate.
Focused training and staff development in kev institutions: The program aims to support the provision of
focused training and management capacity building within the education system in the short- to
medium-term. It will also support staff development and the recruitment of adequate temporary teaching
staff at key tertiary education institutions.
Studies and policv development: A comprehensive studies program to support the development of the
SWAP is being developed. Among others, the program will include the development of the following
studies and plans, some of which will be supported by DFID:
*   Barriers to Access Study (DFID)
*   Cost and Financing of Higher Education (DFID)
*   Studies on various aspects of the quality of education
*   Training Needs Assessment
*   Economic and Financial Analysis of the Education Sector and links with MTEF, PRSP, and HIPC
* Institutional Analysis and Organizational Structure
*   Development of a National Science and Technology Plan
*  Early Childhood Care and Development Policy and Strategy
*   Designing a National Plan for Combating Illiteracy
*   Development of an Experimentation and Innovation Fund
-9-



Project Component 5 - PROJECT TECHNICAL SUPPORT, MONITORING & EVALUATION
The project will provide critical equipment, materials and supplies to the Education Project Office (EPO)
as well as cover its operating costs to enable it to effectively carry out its coordination and monitoring
responsibilities. It will also finance two external evaluations (mid-term and final) and annual external
audits as well as training for its staff.
Conipon             4:   g        ;~US$    Total    financin       %oafin
1. COMMUNITY- BASED                 Human                 8.48       22.9       7.70      22.0
SCHOOL REHAB. & DEV.                Resources
PROGRAM
2. SCHOOL QUALITY                   Other Education      17.17       46.3      16.11       46.0
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
3. HIV/AIDS & EDUCATION             AIDS, STDs            3.31        8.9       3.29        9.4
PREVENTION
4. CAPACITY BUILDING                Human                 6.64       17.9       6.56       18.7
PROGRAM, STUDIES & SWAP             Resources
DEVELOPMENT
5. PROJECT TECHNICAL                Institutional         1.47        4.0       1.34        3.8
SUPPORT, MONITORING &               Development
EVALUATION
0.00        0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Project Costs                     37.07      100.0      35.00      100.0
TotalFinancingRequired                        37.07      100.0      35.00      100.0
- 10-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
In the current socio-economic situation, it would appear difficult to try to simultaneously resolve all the
many human resource development issues facing the nation. It is therefore necessary to prioritize the needs
and identify the problems and challenges which must first be addressed in order to rekindle the education
system. Primary education is of major importance, not only with regard to economic development but also
for the revitalization of the social life of the country. Secondary and higher education are also of
considerable importance for Rwanda, in particular for the development and diversification of the economy.
With regard to secondary education, in view of the growth of private and community schools in Rwanda,
the state could encourage and support the development of these schools while at the same time ensuring that
they comply with rules, standards, and a minimum compulsory curriculum. In higher education, it is
necessary to favor a focused training approach geared towards promoting those disciplines considered to be
priorities for the development of agriculture, the agro-industrial sector, economic management, teacher
training, and the conceptual and technical support for bilingualism. The development of the education
system is inconceivable without the strengthening of human and institutional capacities. The improvement
of management, administration and planning capacities would enable the authorities to better determine the
bottlenecks in the system, increase the efficiency of investment and speed up the rehabilitation of
educational services, as well as avoid duplication of effort and waste of resources. By the same token, the
development of human, technical and material resources in local administrative structures is a key
component in the effort to promote joint ownerhsip of the development process through the participation of
local communities.
In sum, the project will focus on addressing issues of capacity rebuilding and improvement, human
resource development at all levels of the education system, gender and regional equity, and the special
education needs of vulnerable groups.
An important strategic issue relates to the level and execution of social sector expenditures. Government
policy regarding public expenditures has been to progressively shift spending from security to the social
sectors and other priorities such as justice, reintegration and governance. Implementation of this policy has
been mixed. While budget allocations reflected the policy, actual spending often did not. The
discrepancies were due to a combination of poor budgeting and implementation capacity, shortfalls in
external financing, and security expenditures in excess of the budgeted amounts, reflecting the conflicts in
the region. Nevertheless, expenditures on the social sectors have been increasing in real terms, although at
levels below budget allocations. In 1999, the Government decided to ring-fence social sector budgets to
ensure that outcomes are consistent with allocations. The Government, with the assistance from the Bank
and the IMF, is closely monitoring expenditures on the social sectors and security. The outcomes of the
1999 expenditures are consistent with the initial and revised budget estimates. The budget for the
education sector received a substantial increase (15.8%) in the 2000 budget.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: By making primary and secondary education more efficient and post secondary more responsive
to the needs of the public and private enterprises, the project would contribute to lower unit costs and
produce quality graduates better able to meet changing labor market needs. By increasing access to
education, with special attention to the poorest members and regions of the country, the project will
improve equity of service delivery.
Target populations: (i) Short- and medium-term beneficiaries: education institutions and the students
utilizing better quality education; and (ii) long-term beneficiaries: employers and citizens at large.
- 11 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: The project will be implemented during the period 2000-2005.
Executing agency: The Ministry of Education will have overall responsibility for executing the project.
Project Management and Implementation: The overall management, coordination and implementation of
the RHRDP will be handled by the Education Project Office (EPO). This office was established in the
Ministry of Education under a previous IDA operation and was responsible for managing the recently
completed First Education Sector Credit. It is headed by a Project Manager reporting directly to the
Secretary General. The EPO will provide the linkage between the Government and IDA and will
coordinate the implementation of both the community based and non-community based aspects of the
project. The EPO will consist of about half a dozen key professional staff (detailed terms of reference in
the PIM) including an architect or engineer, a Chief Financial Officer (CFO), an accountant, an education
specialist and a social scientist or public relations officer.
The EPO Project Manager will:
(i) Assist each Directorate and implementation agency in the preparation of annual work programs and
budgets for the implementation of each project component or activity;
(ii) Coordinate all aspects of project implementation with the relevant Government entities;
(iii) Coordinate the community-based aspects of the project with relevant CDCs and MINALOC;
(iv) Ensure that those responsible for each component carry out their functions effectively;
(v) Prepare all necessary documentation for the annual review of the Action Plans (procurement and
financial management) made jointly by the Government and IDA, and act as the secretariat of the
Government's oversight committee;
(vi) Supervise the preparation of bidding documents and handle the procurement of civil works, goods and
specialist services in line with IDA's guidelines;
(vii) Plan and carry out all procurement functions under the non-community-based components and ensure
that goods and services procured under the project are delivered to their destination;
(viii) Arrange for the recruitment of personnel and specialists required by the project;
(ix) Monitor and administer the specialist service contracts for both qualitative and quantitative conformity
with contract obligations (short-term as well as long-term) and training/fellowship programs (local and
abroad);
(x) Ensure adequate Government counterpart funding is budgeted and monitor the satisfactory flow of
funds for the project components (from counterpart and IDA sources);
(xi) Prepare and maintain all project accounts, following accepted accounting formats and procedures;
(xii) Prepare all necessary documents for withdrawal of funds from the local project accounts (Special
Account for IDA financing and separate account for counterpart funds) and for submission of withdrawal
applications to IDA;
(xiii) Arrange for annual audits of all project accounts by auditors selected following IDA guidelines and
ensure that such audit reports are forwarded to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year;
(xiv) Keep records, including financial records of the project, and submit to IDA semi-annually progress
reports on project implementation and a completion report no later than six months after completion of the
project; and
(xv) In collaboration with the Planning Department of MINEDUC, arrange for the preparation of the
proposed future Sector-Wide Approach Program (SWAP) for the education sector.
- 12 -



Implementation of Non-Communitv-Based Components: For non-community-based components and
activities, project implementation will be carried out by the appropriate institutional units of MINEDUC.
This will ensure that the necessary skills and experience are acquired by staff in these units which will be
relevant to help them prepare and implement a more ambitious subsequent sector-wide program.
Specifically, project implementation would be undertaken as follows:
Activit                                 Implementing Unit
A) School Quality Improvement Program
(i) Teacher Training                         -Teacher Training Dept. in MINEDUC
-Kigali Institute of Education (KIE)
-Dept. of Primary Education (PPPSNE)
(ii) Curriculum Development                  -National Curriculum Development Center (CNDP)
(iii) Strengthening the Examinations/Assessment   -National Examination Council (NEC)
System
(iv) Textbooks and Pedagogical Materials     -CNDP, Dept. of Primary Education (PPPSNE)
(v) Improving Teaching in Science and Technology  -Dept. of Secondary Education
-Relevant Tertiary Institutions
-Dept. of Research, Science and Tech.
B) HIV/AIDS                                  -AIDS Unit in Dept. of Planning (coord.)
-Depts. of Primary (PPPSNE), Secondary and
Higher Education.
C) Capacity Building, Studies and Development  -Dept. of Planning
of SWAP                                      -Dept. of General Inspection
-EPO
-Tertiary Education Instiutions
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that adequate staff and associated resources would
be made available to the relevant implementing departments and units in MINEDUC. It also provided
assurances that it will maintain the EPO with adequate professional and support staff, under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA, and will consult IDA for any changes in EPO staffing and responsibilities
Implementation of the Communitv-Based Component: The CSRDP will be implemented through the CDC
structures at communal level, with support from MINEDUC staff at central, prefecture and local level.
Local populations - particularly those groups clearly defined as beneficiary groups of a school, for instance
- will be actively involved in the project cycle of a sub-project according to the policy and decision of the
CDC of concern.
Decision-making responsibility for all projects undertaken at the communal level will lie with the CDCs.
The generic structure of the CDCs includes both elected members and representatives of the local
administration (maximum 2). Each secteur in a commune is in turn represented by two members in the
CDC. The CDC elects: (a) a management sub-committee; and (b) an administration sub-committee.
Nominations to the CDC and the two sub-committees are held every two years.
- 13-



The MINEDUC inspector at prefecture level will work in close collaboration with the burgomaster and
president of the CDC, regarding coordination with other line ministries and NGOs. The regional
directorates will assist the CDC in the implementation of proposed interventions. Activities will include the
following tasks: (a) financial control and monitoring; (b) consolidation of the education component of the
community plans into area development plans; (c) project and sub-project monitoring; (d) project
confirmnation; and (e) provision of specialist services upon request.
Community development plans (CDP) will be validated at the commune level with the participation of the
regional and communal education inspectors, the burgomaster, the president of the CDC and the CRDP
Community Development Agent (CDA). The validation will be based on a set of criteria spelled out in the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM). After validation the CDP will be sent to the EPO for approval and
funding. If approved based on the eligibility criteria (see PIM), a grant agreement will be entered between
the EPO and the CDC.
Proposals for construction will be prepared by the beneficiary community in close collaboration with the
CDC and partner agencies (NGOs, private sector consultants - if necessary - etc.). The sub-project will
then be submitted to the commune project approval committee through the regional education inspector
(composition of the approval committee is described in the PIM). If approved, the sub-project will be sent
to the CDC for financing. The CDC will then issue a decision setting out the modalities and conditions of
sub-project implementation. Communities involved in this types of projects will have to contribute at least
10%, in kind or cash, of the overall project cost.
Regarding proposals for sub-projects with general interest, such as the construction of a vocational training
school or secondary school, CDCs involved in such projects will form a Project Management Committee
(PMC) (see PIM for detail, criteria and functioning of the PMC). The PMC will work in collaboration
with the regional education inspector and provide support to the design and implementation of the
sub-project. The sub-project will go through the same procedure as sub-projects at the commune level for
appraisal by the approval committee (see criteria and composition in the PIM). The sub-project will then
be sent to the EPO for review and financing. The PMC will contract partner agencies, i.e. NGOs or private
sector agents, to implement the project under the supervision of the regional inspector of education.
Partner Agencies (PAs): are defined as international or local NGOs or private sector or religious
organizations already doing community development work in Rwanda. Such potential Partner Agencies
(PAs) will be identified in the field by the CDCs to provide the technical assistance they need to implement
their development plans. PAs will be selected based on their ability to provide support to communities and
build their capacity in project management and planning. PAs will be contracted by the CDCs on behalf of
the beneficiaries. The modalities and the criteria of their participation will be stipulated in the PIM.
Project Guidance and Oversight: An oversight committee is being established to provide project guidance
and oversight during implementation. This will be a semi-formal forum chaired by a senior representative
from MINEDUC and will include the heads of all relevant Departments and Units of MINEDUC
(Planning, General Inspection, Primary Education (PPPSNE), Secondary Education, Higher Education,
Teacher Development, CNDP and NEC). It will also include representatives from MINALOC,
MINISANTE (PNLS), Ministry of Youth, Culture and Sports and MTNECOFIN (CEPEX), as well as
representatives from relevant non-governmental organizations, the private sector and the donor community,
especially DFID which is currently providing parallel financing. Other Ministries dealing with human
resource development issues such as the Ministries of Gender, Social Affairs and Agriculture should also
be represented when appropriate. The Oversight Committee will meet twice yearly or more often if needed.
- 14 -



The committee will basically be a body for monitoring, sharing information and providing advice.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: Evaluation and monitoring of project performance and outcomes will
be carried out by the implementing units over the life of the project. Key project-related performance as
well as some sector-wide indicators (inputs, outputs, process, and outcomes) are shown in Annex 1. The
Department of Planning, in collaboration with the Education Project Office (EPO), would organize joint
IDA-Government annual reviews, and a mid-term review of project implementation, the results of which
will be incorporated in an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for further implementation of the project. Joint
IDA-Government supervision missions would also be organized at least once a year. During negotiations
the Government gave assurances that it would submit an Implementation Completion Report (ICR), in
accordance with applicable guidelines for preparation of completion reports within four months of project
completion.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main alternative considered is a traditional education project (with a focus on the formal sector and on
one or two levels of education) in continuation of the ongoing education project which closed on September
30, 1999. This alternative was dropped because it would not adequately address the human resource
development issues facing Rwanda. There is a need for special, innovative and holistic approaches to deal
with the kinds of issues facing Rwanda. The idea of a holistic and flexible approach which begins to lay
the basis for a future (medium to long term) broader sectoral approach to investments in the sector was
proposed. In this regard, a more comprehensive Human Resource Development - Specific Investmnent
Operation SIL - was preferred to a limited, single-level SIL. While addressing critical and urgent human
resource development needs in a flexible and innovative way, the project also lays the foundation for a
SWAP to be developed in three to four years.
A Ministry of Education "supply-driven approach" to classroom construction was considered whereby the
central ministry would predetermine the number and placement of classrooms to be built and hire central
contractors to undertake construction. Such an approach might be faster and more expedient but little
community ownership would be built. Recent experience suggests that maintenance and sustainability is
better when communities are involved from the beginning in determining the number and nature of
classrooms to be built and contributing to their construction. This project therefore uses a
community-based approach to school rehabilitation and development.
- 15 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
S4ctor Issue           I         Prjeit                   (PSR0 Ratigs 
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
First Education Project           Cr.567-RW                        S             S
Second Education Project          Cr. 1263-RW                       S            S
Third Education Project           Cr. 1683-RW                       S             S
First Education Sector Project    Cr. 2227-RW                       S            S
PNAS                              Cr. 2388-RW                       S            S
CRDP                              Cr.31380-RW                       S            S
Other development agencies
AfDB Ongoing Education Project
AfDB Education III Project
UNICEF
UNESCO-HCR
FED
ACCT
DFID
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned from the implementation of about half a dozen education or education-related projects in
Rwanda over the past years include the following: (a) the need for decision-makers and other stakeholders
at the prefecture and commune levels to take ownership of the project, and to develop mechanisms for
effective collaboration; this should involve community participation in the identification, design,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of education-related sub-projects and the management of
schools; (b) the need for stronger donor coordination; (c) the need for project objectives to be scaled to take
into account local implementation capacity so that, if complex project activities need to be included in the
project, these are scheduled to commence once the technical and implementation capacity has reached the
required level; (d) the need for flexibility in order to respond adequately to substantial changes in
implementation conditions; (e) the need to emphasize quality improvement since it is not cost-effective or
educationally sound to focus exclusively on expanding access at the expense of maintaining or establishing
minimum quality standards and minimum sector management capacity; and (f) the need to make sure that
adequate maintenance of schools is incorporated in the project in order to enhance physical sustainability of
assets created.
The design of the proposed project has incorporated these lessons: (a) total ownership of the project by the
Rwandese at various levels has been ensured since project identification during a mini-retreat in May 1999;
(b) donor coordination is being strengthened, with the Bank and DFID taking a lead under this operation
and the proposed follow-up SWAP; (c) the project's objectives have been simplified and components
streamlined to take into account local implementation capacity; (d) flexibility has been built into various
- 16 -



aspects of the project design including the setting aside of a sizeable unallocated category; (e) education
quality improvement activities take up over 50% of the total project; and (f) physical sustainability of
assets created under the project would be ensured through adequate provisions for community participation
in the maintenance of schools.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Rwanda has designated human resource development as a top priority and has
demonstrated its determination to move this sector forward. Since the present system of education does not
help face the challenges of the new era, the Government has requested from IDA support to assist with the
increase of access and the strengthening of the quality of education, and with the development of the needed
human resources. Several discussions were held with Government officials, professionals from the
university, the private sector, NGOs and civil society, to identify and articulate the critical issues of the
sector. These culminated in a mini-retreat in May, 1999, bringing together stakeholders from the public
sector, the private sector, the donor community, and representatives from NGOs, religious organizations
and civil society. In December 1999, there was a follow up workshop on human resource development
(HRD) in Rwanda organized by the government in collaboration with UJNDP and UNESCO. The Bank
participated actively in both the mini-retreat and the HRD workshop.
The Government of Rwanda has also given a clear indication of its recognition of the seriousness of the
AIDS epidemic and its commitment to addressing the epidemic through a multisectoral approach. The
Government's commitment is reinforced by the Ministry of Education's appreciation that one of the most
successful strategies to combat AIDS in other countries has been to focus on behavior change among
children and youth, and its determination to expand its contribution to an effective response.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA support and participation are needed to effectively promote a sustainable education and training
system in the country. The demand-driven, community-based approach to educational rehabilitation and
development is designed to facilitate the ongoing process of government decentralization in the education
sector. As a key partner of the government in strategic planning and the establishment of macro-economic
policy, IDA's continued support to human resource development, and to education sector development in
particular, would encourage other donors to actively join in support of the country's program.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The RHRDP is envisaged as a precursor to a broader Sector-Wide Approach (SWAP) that will coordinate
all donor education assistance in support of the policies and strategies elucidated in the Ministry of
Education's Policy Framework and reduce the fragmentation of human and financial resources brought by
multiple and disparate donor projects. Before a SWAP can be undertaken and attract significant donor
attention, a sound and sustainable policy framework should be fully articulated, costed out, and agreed by
all major donors in the education sector. The Government has taken important steps to this end. However,
Rwanda's nascent education policy would be greatly assisted by additional economic analysis that provides
more justification, prioritization, and realistic timing and sequencing, for the proposed strategies. The
- 17 -



economic analysis undertaken to date, as well as that envisaged under this project, aims to strengthen
MlNEDUC's ability to develop a coherent, responsive, cost-effective and sustainable strategy in support of
the sector and in preparation of the SWAP.
The extent to which the education system promotes social and economic development in a country depends
on the system's efficiency and accessibility. Allocation of public resources should serve to increase the
number of children reached, especially in the lower income groups, as well as the quality and efficiency of
schools. Expenditure that is targeted to these ends will maximize the social returns to investment in
education. Rwanda's education data suggest that significant strides remain to improving the quality,
accessibility and efficiency of the sector. With primary net enrollment rates of only 65%, efficiency gains
that reduce the number of over-age students and raise the net enrollment rates are needed. With only about
90,000 secondary students, scope to increase access at this level is similarly large. The existence of vast
numbers of untrained primary and secondary teachers is also evident in the very high ratio of pupils to
trained teachers (125:1 and 54: 1, respectively), producing and retaining adequate numbers of trained
teachers is thus a main challenge.
Compounding an already difficult situation, the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic will have serious
consequences for Rwanda's education sector. The percentage of adults living with HIV has reached an
estimated level of about II percent, and there is little reason to believe that this percentage would be very
different among teachers. The supply of teachers may be reduced by illness, death and absenteeism due to
funeral attendance and the need, especially for female staff, to care for family members. Consequently, this
would have serious consequences for the planning of the number of teachers to be trained. On the demand
side, the projected number of children requiring education may decline. Declining birth rates, increasing
child mortality rates and increasing numbers of orphans are important underlying factors. There is a real
danger that families affected by AIDS will be forced to keep children out of school for a variety of reasons:
to care for ill household members, to replace lost labor, to care for other children, or for financial reasons.
Similarly, an increased number of drop-outs may be anticipated in these situations.
Meeting Rwanda's education needs will require increasing the supply and the demand for education through
such measures as constructing additional classrooms in partnership with communities, increasing the
quality and relevance of education provision and, perhaps, reducing or eliminating primary school fees.
The intermediate and end targets of these initiatives, as well as their cost and sustainability, are being
assessed through a Policy Simulation Model that was introduced during project preparation and will
continue to be used and updated during the RHRDP. To date, three main scenarios have been introduced:
(i) a core scenario simulates the quantitative implications of attaining UPE by 2010; (ii) an alternative
scenario simulates the efficiency gains from more ambitious objectives with respect to repetitions/drop-out
rates; and (iii) a third scenario estimates the budgetary impacts of making primary education free in line
with Government's longer term objectives of increasing equity and access. Each of these scenarios envisage
significant boosts to primary and secondary enrollment and expenditures, and could impose a heavy burden
on an economy expected to grow at 5 to 6 percent per year. Further iterations and scenarios will be
undertaken to support relevant and sustainable policy development.
The simulations include the tertiary sub-sector. In each scenario, tertiary expenditures are expected to rise
to meet the increased demand and expectations of growing numbers of secondary graduates. However, in
light of the existing relatively high unit costs of tertiary education and the presumed scope for cost
reductions, tertiary expenditures do not increase at the same rate as primary and secondary education,
thereby reversing recent intra-sectoral trends in expenditure. Understanding the nature of high tertiary
expenditures and developing policy options to limit future expenditures is the subject of a consultancy
- 18-



agreed by Government and financed by the Bank and DFID.
Under the RHRDP, financing will be set aside to ensure that expenditure and budget management reviews
are undertaken on an ongoing basis. It is expected that the reviews will produce information that the
Ministry will utilize in prioritizing and re-allocating annual expenditures. In collaboration with the central
ministries, the reviews will provide the foundation for an MTEF that matches expected resources with
required expenditures and provide an essential foundation for moving to a SWAP that donors can support
in future lending.
In addition to the ongoing revision of the education simulation model and of the public expenditure
analysis, several other types of economic analysis have been initiated and will be undertaken during the
project. While insufficient data currently exist to undertake traditional cost-benefit analysis and benefit
incidence analysis, Rwanda's household survey will be strengthened to permit such analysis in future. In
particular, information on household's access to and expenditure on education, will be developed to
determine the effect of income, location, gender, etc., on access to and progression in education. Given that
only 30 percent of children who enter primary school complete it, a study will be undertaken to determine
why retention rates are so low and dropout rates so high. In addition, a Social Assessment is underway to
identify issues related to disadvantaged groups, especially orphans and child-headed households, and
develop intervention strategies to widen their access to education and training. Development of the MIS,
already begun during project preparation, will be an ongoing and important feature of the project. Finally,
the AIDS epidemic and its impact on the demand for education and in the supply of labor will be further
analyzed. Specifically, insight will be sought on: (i) the mechanisms by which households react to the
impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, with regard to household members' access to education; (ii) aspects that
relate to the quality of teaching and learning; (iii) the special needs of marginalized families and children
(e.g. severely impoverished households, child-headed households, street children); and (iv) relevant and
feasible risk-reduction strategies, both for teachers and pupils.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Decentralization should facilitate the transfer of funds to the prefectures and communes which would take
responsibility for managing local activities. To this end, the project will develop the capacity to manage
and audit the regional authorities. The project would review the Government's cost recovery policies within
the sector to ensure that no children are excluded from primary education because of fees and that children
at higher levels of education pay their fair share.
Fiscal Impact:
Rwanda's education expenditures have grown significantly over the past decade and, in 1999, constituted
17 percent of total recurrent government expenditures. Within the education sector, tertiary expenditures
have grown most rapidly. Partly, this reflects the significant start-up costs of a number of new institutions.
However, student bursaries at the tertiary level have grown to account for over 13 percent of the total
recurrent budget in education which is equivalent to the whole of the secondary education budget. The
Ministry has made a decision in principle to move these costs to the students through a student loan
scheme. The mechanisms and timing of this policy must be further explored and is the subject of a
forthcoming consultancy supported by the Bank and DFID. The amount of recurrent resources used for
salaries has remained fairly constant in nominal terms over the past several years, and have fallen as a
proportion of education expenditures. However, growth in the future teacher wage bill is likely, as more
teachers are trained and recruited under the project. Books, learning materials, furniture and equipment
- 19-



have grown as a share of education expenditures, however, much of this growth reflects funds associated
with the new tertiary institutions.
There is no doubt that the continued operation of the education sector in Rwanda is due to the support of
parents and the wider community at all levels, however it is difficult to assess the actual contribution of
these categories as the level and nature of contributions varies widely between schools and prefectures. A
program of fee exemption is in place for poor children who have been deeply affected by the war, but both
its success, and the wider question of how many children are out of school as a result of their inability to
pay fees, is unknown. The Ministry has commenced research to assess community contribution, and the
Bank has agreed to support additional work in this area.
Rwanda initiated development of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in 1998, with an early
focus on the education sector. A draft report lays out several priority reforms needed to make the links
between budget, expenditure, and outcomes more obvious and transparent, and projects medium term
expenditures (1999-2003) dependent on several policy scenarios the Ministry of Education pursues.
3. Technical:
Since the country has a weak capacity for carrying out education sector analyses, capacity would be built
through creation of a pedagogical committee whose purpose would be to: (i) define, establish and carry out
education sector analyses; (ii) improve data collection; (iii) propose a management information system;
and (iv) monitor the creation and implementation of this system. Perhaps more importantly, the Innovation
and Experimentation Progam Fund will provide funds to undertake pilot activities that generate experience
and lessons and build the capacity of those involved.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
MINEDUC has overall responsibility for the RHRDP. An EPO has been established within MINEDUC
which reports directly to the Secretaire General. The EPO has overall responsibility for project
management and implementation. It will collaborate with relevant departments within MfNEDUC, other
line Ministries, and institutions to ensure the timely execution of project activities.
4.2 Project management:
The EPO will be in charge of the day-to-day management of the project. Key areas of the financial
management have already been assessed during the project appraisal to ensure agreement with the Bank's
established procedures. The EPO will: (a) coordinate individual project activities; (b) prepare and
supervise the execution of contracts between the project and project partners; and (c) prepare the project
annual work program, annual budget, accounts and financial statements; progress reports; disbursement
applications and procurement plan and execution. The role of the ministry's departments in their support
to the EPO will take into account a smooth transfer in future of EPO responsibilities to relevant Ministry of
Education Units regarding efficient preparation, management, coordination and implementation of all
activities.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment was undertaken in November of 1999. It highlighted a number of issues which
would need to be addressed in order to ensure the efficiency of procurement arrangements under the
- 20 -



RHRDP. The following issues were identified:
(i) The need to recruit personnel with the requisite, procurement, financial management and accounting
skills;
(ii) The need for financial management and accounting manuals of sufficient quality;
(iii) The weakening of the construction sector during the war and genocide; and
(iv) The inadequacy of the existing regulatory framework for procurement.
In response to these issues, an action plan for improving procurement arrangements under the current
project was adopted as a condition of negotiations and is in the process of being implemented. The
following actions are envisaged:
(i) Recruitment and training of qualified personnel at CDC level, MINEDUC and the National Tender
Board (NTB);
(ii) Development and widespread distribution of operational manuals;
(iii) Rigourous application of the criteria governing the selection of firms;
(iv) Closer supervision of the various institutional actors;
(v) Undertaking of a technical audit on a yearly basis; and
(vi) Modernisation of the regulatory framework for procurement;
While RHRDP will further strengthen procurement capacity at the commune level, it should be noted that
some experience in procurement at that level has already been acquired in the execution of the CRDP and
other related projects (UNDP, USAID, etc.). Supervision reports indicate that this experience has been
successful. Furthermore, the government plans to use the community-based approach initiated under the
CRDP as a national model.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management assessment was undertaken in August 1999. It highlighted a number of issues
which would need to be dealt with in order to improve the financial management system. These issues
include:
(i) Human Capacity Constraints: There is an urgent need to recruit a Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and
accountants at central and commune levels.
(ii) Financial Management System fFMS) Training Needs: There is a need for training of existing
financial staff and new staff to be recruited in Bank disbursement and procurement procedures and training
for LACI and PMR.
(iii) Internal Controls and Manual of Procedures: Several procedures for financial management (payment
authorizations, supporting documentation, operation of Special and Project Accounts, filing of accounting
documents, etc.,) have been developed. While these have served well and meet the minimum requirements
for internal controls, there remain several areas where further strengthening is necessary. For example,
accounting and internal control procedures under previous projects have not been codified in any formal
manual of procedures. It would be highly desirable if this were done as part of the present project's
financial management system.
(iv) Accounting Software: A review of the existing accounting software needs to be undertaken in order to
determine whether the existing version should be updated or a new software package acquired.
- 21 -



In response to the issues raised by the financial management assessment, an action plan for improving the
financial management system was adopted as a condition of negotiations for the current project. The action
plan, which is in the process of being implemented, envisages the following steps:
* Recruitment of a CFO as soon as possible
*   Recruitment of a Project Accountant
* Design of a program for the CFO and his/her familiarization with the project context and the financial
management requirements of the Bank and the Government
* Recruitment of Assistant Accountants at each of the 12 CRDP-financed CDCs responsible for
managing funds under the RHRDP
* Design and implementation of an appropriate training program for the CDC accountants
* Recruitment of an accountant for auditing of PPF funds
* Recruitment of an external auditor, acceptable to IDA, to undertake the audit of financial statements of
the Project under audit TORs acceptable to IDA
* Elaboration of a Manual of Procedures
Accounting: Accounting will follow standard procedures regarding bookkeeping, setting up financial
records and preparing financial reports. The CFO in the EPO will administer the financial management
system that will follow generally accepted accounting procedures. At communal level, accounting of
project-related activities will be undertaken by the CDC accountant, under the CDC's Administration
sub-committee.
Financial reporting: The project's financial statements will comprise: (i) a statement of Source and
Application of Funds for the project during the current financial year, and cumulatively since the start of
the project, and (ii) a balance sheet. The statement of Source and Application of Funds will show project
funds from IDA and counterpart funds on one hand, and expenditures under the main project headings and
by main categories of expenditure. The balance sheet will show Accumulated Funds of the Project, bank
balances, other assets of the project,. and liabilities, if any. These two financial statements will be prepared
annually in accordance with international accounting standards. In addition to the annual financial
statements, agreement was reached during negotiations to submit a quarterly report using the LACI models
including financial statements, procurement/contracts schedule and output monitoring, one month after the
end of each quarter. The objective is to familiarize the project unit with periodic reporting as required
under LACI so that by the end of an 18-month interim period, reliable project management reports (PMR)
can be prepared and eventually be used as the basis for disbursement in place of the traditional
disbursement method through SOEs. To facilitate the process of preparing these quarterly reports, the
computerized financial management system will be customized to generate them automatically.
Auditing: The financial statements of the project will be audited for each fiscal year by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports
of reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the audited
period. The auditor will provide an opinion on:
* The project financial statements (statement of Source and Application of Funds, Balance Sheet)
* Statement of expenditures (SOE)
* Special accounts (SA)
* The decentralized accounts (CAA) fed by the main special account, based on a review of a sample of
these accounts (to examine the overall system of flow of funds, reporting and controls)
The auditors will also provide a management report on Internal Controls outlining for EPO and CDCs any
- 22 -



recommendations for improving internal accounting controls and operational procedures identified as a
result of the financial statement audit.
Internal Audit/Internal Compliance Review: In the context of decentralized fund management, the
CFO/Project Accountant will serve an "internal audit" function and get out of their central office regularly
and visit the communes to review the books with the local accountants. This kind of oversight and
monitoring will not only reinforce the local accountants' training but will ensure that best practices are
recorded and will also facilitate annual audits, which should include review of the decentralized accounts
fed by the special account.
5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is not expected to have any negative impact on the environment. On the contrary, the CSRDP
will provide a unique opportunity to develop environmental awareness and education activities in
association with parent associations and school clubs. There will be a limited amount of civil works and
these will be mainly rehabilitation of existing structures. New schools or classrooms to be constructed
under the project will be small and dispersed in rural areas. Construction methods would avoid putting
pressure on scarce natural resources. The project would explore the use of hydraform block technology
(based on pressure on a mixture of lots of soil and very little cement) and not baked bricks, in order to
reduce the need for firewood, avoiding any detrimental impact on the environment. Field research to verify
the sustainability of soil for clay compaction in the brick making process of hydraform blocks should be
executed in advance in order to avoid design modifications. Meanwhile, the construction of new schools
and the rehabilitation of existing structures should result in improvements in sanitary conditions (potable
water in schools and building of latrines). The planting of sapling shade trees and landscaping to prevent
erosion will also have positive effects on the environment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
* The project focuses on the poorest communes, as well as on girls, since discriminatory laws and practices
- 23 -



in education, employment, and property rights have marginalized women and limited their contributions to
the family and society. Women must be fully integrated into society for Rwanda to move forward socially
and economically. Project preparation has initiated social and beneficiary assessments to help target the
most needy groups of the population.
Gender dimensions will figure prominently in each component of the project. Specifically the following
will be ensured:
*   Gender balance in Parent Teacher Associations (PTAs) at the community level. The criteria of
existence of PTA in the approval of community sub-projects (described in greater detail in the PIM)
will be redefined to take into account this gender dimension.
*   Inclusion of gender-appropriate facilities in project schools, such as adequate latrine facilities for girls.
*   Greater gender sensitivity in curricula, textbooks, other teaching materials, and in the pedagogy of
teaching.
*   Gender-sensitivite targeting of HIV/AIDS programs.
*   Studies to investigate the gender specific magnitude of problems related to access; quality and
retention; and greater gender balance in training programs.
With regard to various vulnerable groups, the following programs are envisaged;
*   Catch up and accelerated leaming programs for out-of-school youth and their participation in
HIV/AIDS programs.
*   Special needs education for physically or mentally disabled and/or traumatized children and youth.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Students; Teachers; Parents and Community Groups;
NGOs; Ministry of Education; Educational Institutions; Local Governments; Employers.
The community-based School Rehabilitation and Development Program will help allocate and channel
funds to poor populations; it also seeks to improve the institutional and governance environment by
empowering communities to design and implement their own development initiatives in the area of school
rehabilitation and development. Planning, implementation, operation, management of schools and
school-related activities under the program, will be the responsibility of communities, or of their nearest
local government in the case of larger projects. Participatory appraisal and planning techniques will be
designed to enable communities to prioritize, plan and implement their own development, to give voice to
the poor, women, and to other often excluded groups, and thereby prevent "capture of the benefits" by local
elites. A PHRD grant was approved to help the Ministry of Education to carry out a number of studies and
train staff in the participatory approach. Specifically a beneficiary assessment was undertaken; this
included stakeholders and beneficiaries and consisted of qualitative and quantitative surveys. To initiate
the process, a mini-retreat was organized in Kigali in early May 1999, and a follow-up human resource
development workshop was held in December 1999.
Parent Associations: Will participate in the overall school decision making process, as well as participate
in the design and implementation of school construction or rehabilitation (cost sharing).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs are important partners of the project. The project intends to work very closely with NGOs to
provide technical expertise to CDCs and CBGs in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of
sub-projects and related capacity building activities.
- 24 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project will develop partnership with NGOs, CDCs, CBGs and the private sector to strenghthen its
decentralization at prefectoral and communal levels.
Private Sector. Through local level contracting, individual CDCs will asssociate the private sector in the
implementation of sub-projects and technical services.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Potlcy.                                   Applic0bility
Li Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            El Yes X No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    l Yes O No
El Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     O Yes E No
aL Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       LI Yes 1 No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   l Yes RI No
LI Indigenous Peoples (D 4.20)                                     L Yes 3 No
_ Involuntary Resettlement                                         LiP 4.30)  O Yes N No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                              1L Yes 1 No
El Projects in Interational Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50L Ei Yes 1 No
L Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           L Yes 1 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability will be enhanced through community participation in the identification, design,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation of education sub-projects as well as in the management of
schools. In particular, physical sustainability of assets created under the project would be ensured through
adequate provisions for community participation in the maintenance of schools.
Regarding financial sustainability, donor support in the education sector is critical until a sustainable
growth path has been established. Government commitment and the involvement of communities and the
private sector in financing and implementation of the project, will enhance the project's sustainability in the
long-run. Meanwhile, a realistic recurrent cost-recovery plan targeting the secondary and tertiary levels of
education is under preparation. Preliminary studies are included in this project and this will be followed up
under the proposed SWAP.
- 25 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minimizationi Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The political risk in the Great Lakes       H         The coalition national unity Government
region remains high and may have an                   continues to be effective in managing the affairs
impact on social and economic reforms in              of the country and is contributing to the
the country.                                          stabilization of the region.
Lack of ability on Government's part to     M         Develop a technical and short-term financial
adequately finance the recurrent costs of             support mechanism (CFO and other technical
facilities established by the project.                support under the project, community
participation in maintenance, etc.).
Government capacity to implement the        M         An intensive capacity building program should
program and maintain the integrity of the             be included in the project.
approach.
Uncoordinated participation of key donors   M         Strengthen the existing donor coordination
in the investment program.                            mechanisms.
From Components to Outputs
Overall Risk Rating                         S         Concerted efforts underway to minimize risks.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Multilingualism is a controversial aspect of the Government's new education policy. The significant
institutional and human resources required to implement these throughout the country cause some to
question the ability of the Rwanda to succeed in its efforts. Nevertheless, the RHRDP supports
Government's policy as a way to unify the country and better integrate it with all of its neighbors.
- 26 -



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i) The Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form and susbtance satsifactory to
IDA;
(ii) The Borrower has established an adequate financial management system, satisfactory to IDA, to ensure
proper monitoring of Project activities; and
(iii) The Borrower has opened a Project Account and has deposited therein an initial deposit of
US$250,000.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Implementation Conditions:
(i) The Borrower shall maintain within MINEDUC an EPO headed by a national manager and staffed with
personnel having experience and qualifications satisfactory to IDA, including an architect, an engineer, a
chief financial officer, a procurement specialist, an accountant, an education specialist and a social
scientist.
(ii) The Borrower shall, no later than thirty six months after the Effective Date, carry out jointly with IDA
a mid-term review. Such review shall assess the overall progress in the implementation of the project; the
result of the monitoring and evaluation actvities; and progress on procurement, disbursement and other
financial management issues.
Disbursement Conditions. The general disbursement condition in Schedule 1, para. 3 of the DCA will
apply. With respect to Grants to CDCs, no disbursement shall be made unless the grants have been made in
accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the development credit agreement.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 27 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
N  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Peter N. Ngomba                    Arvil Van Adams                    Emmanuel Mbi
Team Leader                        Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
RWANDA: Human Resources Development Project
Key Porkace.            -
Hierarebhy  Ofbjes              - -l trs              o t        &0         n  - - Critical Aswmptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Urgent development and   *  Contribution made to an   *  Rwanda Economic    Favorable economic and
improvement of            increase in the             Report                political environment
Rwanda's human             productivity of the
resources to sustain       workforce.
economic growth and
reduce poverty.
-29 -



MBNr nHM       w   >      ! | z !  M  g& w i              t a S   t   "os Z
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
*  Build capacity in the  * The transition rate from    * National Education  The institutional capacity of
education system: more    primary to secondary       Survey                MINEDUC will be
efficient primary and     education increased                              strengthened as anticipated.
.                         *~~~~~~~~ School enrollment and
secondary education.      from about 35% now, to     examination records
Secondary education       at least 50% by the end
more responsive to the    of the project.         * National Employment
labor market needs of                    .           Records
publicand pivate*  The success rate in the
public and private        national examination at
enterprises,              the end of primary
*  Build Capacity in         education to
communities and the       increasefrom 40% now,
overall economy           to at least 70% by the
end of project.
*  The qualification level
of the teaching corps (as
a proxy for qualification
rates across the overall
economy) to increase
from 49% now, to 65%
by the end of the project
at the primary level, and
from 26% (University
graduates only) now, to
52% by the end of the
project at the secondary
level. At the tertiary
level, the number of
professors with
doctorate degrees (now
only about 5%), at least
doubled by the end of
the project.
- 30 -



Key Pefomane .              -.
HIerarchY of objectives  ....   -    toJ d          Monitoring  E EvaiuetiPn  .Cntical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Community Based School
Rehab. and Dev. Program
Community -based          At least 10 subprojects per    Project Management quarterly Government capacity to
demand-driven school      year planned and executed by  reports                implement the program and
construction and rehabilitation local communities.                              maintain the integrity of the
sub-projects evaluated and                                                      approach
financed.
2. School Quality
Improvement Program
Training needs of trainers    In-service training provided to Project Management quarterly Counterpart funding available
identified in TTCs, KIE and   1000 teachers every other year Reports
teachers in schools.      for duration of project.
Textbooks purchased/printed  Primary pupil/textbook ratio  Project Management quarterly Counterpart funding available
for pupils and teachers.  of 2:1 in math by end of   Reports
project and one teacher's guide
per teacher by 2004.
Organizational chart for NEC  45 Technical personnel  Project Management quarterly Counterpart funding available
drawn-up and a national   trained by year 2000, and able Reports
examination center        to evaluate examination
constructed and operational.  results every year.
National Science and      S&T disciplines taught at    Project Management quarterly Counterpart funding available
Technology plan developed   primary level by end of  Reports
and implemented           project.
- 31 -



3. HVAD    HIV/AIDSreadtacig
AIDS prevention program    HlV/AIDS-related teaching,  Analysis of curricula, teaching Overall intensification of
integrated into curricula,  lering andinformatnal   materials, and school activities HIV/AIDS prevention
school manuals and activities. mia ls a blend ue                                 activities in the country.
in all schools by end of
project.                   Project Management Quarterly Counterpart funding available
AIDS awareness raising
program conducted with     At least 70% of of schools    Reports                 and community participation
officials, parents and teachers. with functioning anti-AIDS                      increased
clubs by end of project, with
an approach appropriately
targeting girls and boys.  Project Management Quarterly Overall intensification of
Teaching and learning aids   Decline in the teenage   Reports                    HIV/AIDS prevention
mass-produced, distributed    pregnancy rate (as a proxy for                     activities in the country
and personnel trained.     an increase in condom use)                            Counselling, caring and
Testing, caring and        All known pupils, students                           testing will be voluntary and
counselling provided to    and teachers infected with or                         with mformed consent.
students and teachers at all   affected by HIV/AIDS offered
levels.                   information on the nearest
testing, counselling and
support opportunities.
4. Capacity Building
Program, Studies and
Development of SWAP
Education management       Gender-sensitive education    Project Management Quarterly MINEDUC appoints an
information system        policy framework formulated. Reports                   adequate number of personnel
strengthened and capacity for                                                   in decentralized services and
formulating and orienting                                                        school inspections;
education policy established.
Focused training and      An average of at least 20% of                          Ongoing development of
management capacity building planned training programs                           policy strategic framework.
within the education system.  executed every year for
duration of project.
Decentralized system and   Sector Wide Investment                                A viable macroeconomic
general inspectorate       Program prepared and                                  environment
implemented and operational adopted, and implementation
initiated by end of project.
Studies and policy papers  Reports of project studies,                           Widening donor commitment
contributing to development of prepared, approved and                           to a cooordinated approach.
a Sector Wide Investment    adopted by MINEDUC.
Program.
- 32 -



Key Perforanc6e
H#erarcby of Objectve s         Indiato             MonOring & Evatuation    Critical Assumphons
Project Components       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Community-Based School 1. US$8, 480, 000         Project Management quarterly Availability of counterpart
Rehab. and Dev. Program                             Reports                    funding and community
participation
2. School Quality         2. US$17, 170, 000        Project Management quarterly Availability of counterpart
Improvement Program                                 Reports                    funding
2.1 Teacher Training
2.2 Curriculum Development
2.3 Textbooks and
Pedagogical Materials
2.4 Strengthening the
Examinations/Assessment
System
2.5 Improving Quality of
Teaching in Science and
Technology
3. HIV/AIDS               3. US$3, 310, 000         Project Management quarterly Availability of counterpart
3.1 Strengthening AIDS                              Reports                    funding
Program Management
3.2 Curriculum Development
3.3 Materials Production and
Dissemination
3.4 Sensitization
3.5 Counselling, Caring and
Testing
4. Capacity Building      4. US$6, 640, 000         Project Management quarterly Availability of counterpart
Programs, Studies &                                 Reports                    funding
Development of SWAP
4.1 Strengthening Capacities
for Educational Management
and Planning
4.2 Reinforcing the System of
Decentralization and General
Inspectorate
4.3 Focused Training and
Staff Development in Specific
Specific Insititutions
4.4 Studies and Policy
Development
- 33 -



Annex 2: Project Description
RWANDA: Human Resources Development Project
INTRODUCTION
1.    The mission and the Ministry of Education
By Component:
Project Component I - US$8.48 million
COMMUtNITY-BASED SCHOOL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
The main objective of the CSRDP is to support local community initiatives and demand-driven projects
such as the rehabilitation of classrooms and equipment and the construction of new schools. The grant is
part of the first pillar of an interim education strategy for Rwanda which includes: (i) participation of
communities in the rehabilitation, extension and construction of primary and community secondary schools;
(ii) generation of employment and rural liquidity; and (iii) generation of resources to restore and improve
the delivery of adequate levels of essential private and public education services. This interim strategy is
intended to lead to a longer termn strategy under the SWAP and contribute to the Government's goal of
Universal Primary Education (UPE).
Lessons learned from previous Bank projects in Rwanda have been incorporated in the design of the
CSRDP. These include: (i) unsuccessful beneficiary participation in the First Sector Development Project
that has just been completed; and (ii) the innovative implementation approach carried out under the ongoing
CRDP financed by a bank LIL. The latter focuses on: (a) strengthening capacities at the central and local
level through the development of planning and implementation structures, such as CDCs, etc.; (b) initiating
community-based procurement and disbursement mechanisms; and (c) developing transparent financial
management procedures at the communal level. The CRDP is being implemented by local government
units, community-based groups and partner agencies.
At the demand of individual CDCs, the CRDP will co-finance the rehabilitation and construction of
educational infrastructure such as, preschools, primary schools, secondary schools, and catch-up centers
for out-of-school children and youth. Capacity building activities will also be offered in program
communes that do not yet have fully functioning CDCs. These activities will include, training of CDC
members following the Ministry of Local Government's (MINALOC) training manual, as well as technical
support to the CDCs in the form of training for Community Development Agents (CDAs) and one
Community Accountant. At the central level, capacity building will, in particular, focus on sensitizing
MINEDUC staff to various aspects of decentralized development and procedures of community
participation.
The CSRDP will comprise the following main activities:
*  Construction and equipment of school infrastructure through the Community Development Committees
(CDCs) with an active involvement of the beneficiaries;
*  Development of Community Development Plans through execution of Participatory Rural Appraisals
(PRAs) in some pre-identified communes in marginalized prefectures;
* Strengthening capacities of communities (including the CDC) and their nearest local governments in
participatory planning through training in project cycle management;
*  Strengthening the responsiveness and inclusiveness of local governments and their administrative and
fiscal capacity via policy, fiscal, institutional and public administration reform, and via capacity
building of the key institutions in charge of decentralization;
* Establishment of a matching grant for communities and their nearest local governments;
- 34 -



*  Monitoring, evaluation, and program adaptation; and
* Facilitation of the involvement of communities in school management through Parent Teacher
Associations (PTAs).
Ideally every school constructed under this component will have a PTA. The design of the schools will be
standard in order to be able to monitor the efficiency and cost effectiveness of community based
construction. Each school will be placed in the right physical environment whereby, among others,
sufficient accomodation for teachers is guaranteed. A school development plan will be part of the proposal,
indicating measures to contribute to current costs via a school garden for feeding purposes, a school fund
etc.
Project Component 2 - US$17.17 million
SCHOOL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
The main objective of the School Quality Improvement Program is to raise the quality of education in
Rwanda by enhancing the quality of inputs to the education system. These inputs are, in order of
importance: (a) teachers and the quality of their training; (b) textbooks and teaching materials; and (c)
curricula and methods of supervision. The impact of these inputs on Rwandan education is to be
strengthened by improving working conditions in the classroom, improving personnel management and
rationalizing the objectives and organization of the examinations administered at the end of the cycle.
Teacher training: In order to overcome the quantitative and qualitative shortage of teachers, which
engenders the lowering of quality and intemal and external efficiency, twelve TTCs and the KIE have been
established to train teachers for the primary and secondary schools, respectively. The program seeks to
improve the quality of teachers by identifying the training needs of trainers in the twelve TTCs and the
KIE, and teachers in schools. The program also aims to reorganize the TTCs and provide them with the
staff and facilities necessary to ensure that the training of teachers takes place on a permanent basis in each
of the decentralized structures. These measures are intended to coincide with the forthcoming
decentralization of government structures which will give the district inspectorates more authority.
At the primary level, the program will support the rehabilitation and equipping of the six TTCs. A
sufficient number of professors will be recruited and their qualifications upgraded in the areas of general
education and specific teaching methodology, classroom observation and evaluation, and management of
documentation centers. The curriculum of the TTCs will be fundamentally revised and re-centered on
modem teaching/learning practice in primary education. In close collaboration with the inspectors at the
prefecture and commune levels, the TTCs will also offer continuing educational support to primary
schools, teachers and heads of schools, in the context of made-to-measure activities, on demand on the part
of the beneficiaries.
At the secondary level, the program will support KIE by completing the construction of the Faculty of
Science, providing more equipment and financing its staff development program. It will also help finance
the in-service training program of secondary school teachers.
Curriculum Development: The program also aims to support the Centre National de Development des
Programmes (CNDP) through the training of 45 curriculum developers and the provision of equipment for
the center. In addition, the program will provide support for the establishment of a structure charged with
initiating, developing, producing, experimenting, and ensuring the follow-up of curricula, textbooks,
teachers' guides, and other educational materials. This structure will be provided with competent personnel
and equipment in order to fulfill the objective of providing every teacher with teaching guides adapted to
- 35 -



the revised and harmonized curricula and providing pupils with the corresponding textbooks on a ratio of
two textbooks to every child.
Textbooks and pedagogical materials: The program seeks to improve the availability of textbooks through
the adaptation, development, production and distribution of about 1,187,000 books in Kinyarwanda,
French and English. The adaptation and development activities will be carried out by private writers and
illustrators selected on the basis of proposals. The publishing services will be procured through
international competitive bidding. To avoid disputes at the time of reprint, the copyrights and films of the
titles will be property of Rwanda. The books will be delivered to the schools by private transporters. They
will be the property of the schools and loaned free of charge to the students for the school year.
The program will also contribute to improving and building capacities in the areas of textbook writing,
illustration, design, distribution, use and evaluation. Workshops will be organized to train textbook
writers, illustrators and designers. MIINEDUC staff will visit African countries with successful experience
in textbook development, production and distribution. They will also attend training in textbook
evaluation.
Strengthening of the examinations/assessment system: In order to ensure that Rwanda's education system
has a clear and objective evaluation mechanism, the program aims to support the drawing up of an
organizational chart for the National Examination Council and its equipping with adequate logistical
resources. It will also provide support for the reconstruction of a National Examination Center, the
training of 45 technical personnel and the equipment of the center.
Improvinz the qualitv of teachins in science and technology: In order to address the new development
needs of Rwanda, the program aims to improve the quality of science and teaching through the provision of
reference books for science teaching, the training of teachers, the provision of equipment - including
computers, and laboratory equipment - and the development of a National Science and Technology
Research Plan. The program will also provide support for the rehabilitation of these six schools and their
equipment. It will also support the recruitment of 18 expatriate teachers and the local training of 42
science teachers. In order to encourage the teaching of science at all levels, the project will also finance
science and laboratory equipment for Kigali Institute of Science and Techonolgy (KIST) and ISAE. It will
support the construction of laboratories, a store and a library for Kigali Health Institute (KMI). The
project will also provide additional equipment to the University of Rwanda (UNR). Furthermore the
project will support the conversion of the ETO Tumba into an ICT Center, complementing support
currently being provided in the form of electronic equipment by the Japanese Government.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.31 million
HIV/AIDS
Sensitization activities: Because AIDS has not traditionally been regarded as a responsibility of the
education sector, it is essential to help education officials, teachers, parents and community leaders
understand that the AIDS epidemic is a major threat to education and human resources development, and
that the education sector can play a key role in the behavior change required for effective HIV/AIDS
prevention. Fortunately, the highest levels of Government are sensitized to the relevance of AIDS to
national well-being; hence their request for an explicit AIDS component of this project.
To reach youth effectively with the knowledge and life skills necessary to protect themselves, the Ministry
of Education plans to organize information and sensitization sessions and seminars for ministry officials
and local authorities (Inspecteurs d'arrondissement train professors at the teacher training colleges as well
- 36 -



as teachers in the schools, integrate HI{V/AIDS into the school curriculum and develop education materials,
form anti-AIDS clubs in secondary school and the 5th and 6th grades of elementary school, use theater and
music, and broadcast AIDS messages and stories on radio and TV, using students and teachers.
Curriculum development: In contrast to some countries that schedule a special, one-time information
session for students, the Government has opted to integrate HIV/AIDS into the curriculum for several
subjects as appropriate, and at all grade levels from primary through university. The experience of other
countries will be assessed, and drawn from, in determining how best to address AIDS and behavior change
in a culture-sensitive manner. There is interest in collaborating with the private sector and NGOs, such as
the churches, in developing curricula that will be used in all schools.
Materials production and dissemination: A major Ministry strategy is to develop and assure the
availability and use of pedagogical materials to support the curriculum treatment of the subject of
HIV/AIDS prevention. In addition to materials appropriate for the classroom and the anti-AIDS clubs,
materials will be prepared for other settings to reach out-of-school youth. Consideration is being given to
coordinate this effort with other activities addressing HIV/AIDS in other spheres of life, such as the
churches, in order to assure mutually reinforcing messages. These materials will emphasize behaviors to
reduce vulnerability to HIV infection and will provide practical life skills for healthy living. Radio
programming will also be an important adjunct to activities in the schools.
Strengthening AIDS program management: To manage a much expanded and comprehensive AIDS
prevention program in the Ministry, the project will support: (i) the expansion of MlNEDUC's management
and technical capacity with respect to AIDS management through increased staffing, the provision of
technical advisory services, the acquisition of equipment and materials, the provision of training to staff as
well as the organization of study tours abroad on AIDS prevention programs; and (ii) the carrying out of
studies and consultations with donors and other key stakeholders to assess and develop possible curative
HIV/AIDS programs.
Counseling. Caring and Testing: The project will assist students and teachers infected and affected by
IRV/AIDS to access quality counseling, caring and testing through the support of social services, partner
NGOs, and local and regional health facilities. The project will associate, student, parent and teacher
associations, in the process of strengthening the community based approach to IV/AIDS prevention and
mitigation in the area.
Project Component 4 - US$6.64 million
CAPACITY BUIJLDING PROGRAM, STUDIES AND DEVELOPMENT OF A SECTOR WIDE
APPROACH
In view of the tremendous development tasks with which the country is confronted, and the risk of
piecemeal intervention to promote the education sector, the Government has decided to coordinate and steer
all development efforts and aid, with a view to using available and potential resources to better advantage
for rapid recovery in the education sector. However, the key units responsible for prospecting, planning
and monitoring this development are still having difficulty in carrying out their duties and acting as
instruments which are in a position to back up the efforts of those responsible for education. The majority
of the staff are untrained, data compiled by the regional officials are rarely processed, any processed
statistics are unreliable or even contradictory. Unless a reliable forecasting and programming tool is
established, any efforts to develop and improve the education system will be delayed. The political will to
decentralize educational administration presents further challenges to the system.
- 37 -



Strengthening the system of educational management and planning: The program aims to strengthen
capacities for information management in the education system and capacities for formulating and orienting
educational policy by developing international, regional and national expertise, and conducting studies and
surveys on teaching conditions.
Strengthening the System of Decentralization and General Inspectorate: At the primary education level, it
is the duty of district and municipal inspectorates to ensure a smooth running of schools, to supervise
teachers in the classroom, and to monitor the education curricula currently in use. However, in practice it
may be said that supervisory functions and educational follow up are unsatisfactory, owing to a lack of
human, technical and material resources. In order to ensure that the system of decentralization, general
inspectorate, and educational follow up are performing well, through regular school visits and the provision
of methodological advice to teachers, the program aims to equip the inspection team with logistical
material, train inspectors, equip certain municipal inspectors' offices; and provide transport for the general
inspectcrate.
Focused Training and staffdevelopment in key institutions: Currently, Rwanda lacks innovative
entrepreneurs and business people, a skilled labor force to develop domestic industry and attract foreign
investment, a labor force skilled in information and computer technology (ICT), skilled artisans for the
informal sector (jua kali), and skilled personnel in the education sector, including teachers, inspectors and
educational managers. The program will explore these areas and support the provision of focused training
and management capacity building within the education system.
Studies and policy development. A comprehensive studies program to support the development of the
SWAP is being developed. Among others, the program will include the development of the following
studies and plans, some of which will be supported by the U.K. Departmnent for International Development
(DFID):
3   Barriers to Access Study (DFID)
o  Cost and Financing of Higher Education (DFID)
o  Studies on various aspects of the quality of education
*  Training needs assessment
*   Economic and Financial Analysis of the Education Sector and links with MTEF, PRSP, and HIPC
*   Institutional Analysis and Organizational Structure
*   Development of a National Science and Technology Plan
*  Early Childhood Development Policy and Strategy
*  Designing a national plan for combatting illiteracy
*  Development of Experimentation and Innovation Fund
Project Component 5 - US$1.47 million
PROJECT TECHNICAL SUPPORT, MONITORING & EVALUATION
The project will provide critical equipment, materials and supplies to the Education Project Office (EPO)
as well as cover its operating costs to enable it to effectively carry out its coordination and monitoring
responsibilities. It will also finance two external evaluations (mid-term and final) and annual external
audits as well as training for its staff.
CROSS CUTTING ISSUES
In order to meet Rwanda's most urgent human resource needs, this interim operation also seeks to address a
- 38 -



number of key issues that cut across the components described above. Among these are the following:
Gender Dimensions: Gender related issues present special needs and challenges for the education sector in
Rwanda. The government recognizes that women play an important role in the economic and social
development of the country while at the same time, girls and women do not have adequate access to quality
education, especially on the secondary and tertiary levels. Educational skills and training are needed to
encourage women's active participation in the social and economic development of Rwanda. The
responsibility for gender sensitiveness in HRDP lies within each of the project components. The
components will focus particularly on the following:
Community-Based School Rehabilitation and Development Program: To ensure that women are
included in the decision making process at the community level, gender balance in the PTAs, will be
used as a criterion for approval of sub-projects. Programs will also be developed and tested for out-of
school youth (such as home economics) and accelerated learning/catch-up programs.
School Quality Improvement Program: Gender sensitiveness will be addressed through
awareness-raising by including the relevant issues where appropriate, among educators/teachers in
training, in curriculum development, in textbooks and other teaching materials and in the pedagogy of
teaching.
HIV/AIDS: The percentage of women infected by HIV is slightly higher than that of men: 11.3%
compared to 10.8% of men. It is essential that both sexes are targeted appropriately. The HIV/AIDS
component will therefore be made highly gender sensitive due to the characteristics of prevention
strategies and care for EIIV/AIDS victims in the community.
Capacity Building Programs, Studies and Development of SWAP: Studies will be undertaken to
investigate the gender-specific magnitude of problems relating to access, quality and retention. In
preparation for a SWAP this will contribute to the development of a policy framework for
mainstreaming gender dirnensions into the education sector as a whole.
Early Childhood Care and Development: The impact of early interventions on improving school readiness,
and maximizing learning potential in primary and secondary school, is well documented. MINEDUC is
committed to securing a head start for Rwanda's new generations and has identified ECCD as priority area
that requires immediate assistance because of the lack of services currently available. The program aims to
develop a strong support system for local ECCD initiatives and consequently increased access to quality
ECCD services.
Policy and strategy development will provide the foundation on which ECCD will be supported in the
long-term, including the integration of health and nutritional aspects. The policy will provide national
guidelines for teacher training, training of trainers, curriculum development and management of ECCD
generally. The policy process will be participatory and include studies of rural and urban ECCD practices,
as well as requirements for sustainability and identification of capacity building needs at the local level. A
policy workshop will bring actors in child-support throughout the country together for consultation and
launching of an action plan.
Strengthening of local capacities for ECCD (including the education of caregivers) at the central level
(Division of Preschool and CEAPS) is also envisaged. Service delivery will be driven by private/local
initiatives, supported by MINEDUC. The outcome of the policy process will determine the specific goals
- 39 -



and implementation plan for activities for the last three to four years of the project. Support for
pre-primary education will seek cost-effective, community-based and non-forinal solutions. There is
consensus for ECCD to be integrated into the education system as a whole. Thus, activities such as
curriculum development and teacher training, will be undertaken in other components of HRDP under the
coordination of the Division of Preschool.
Out-of-School Children and Youth: The government of Rwanda has embraced the notion of education as
basic hurnan right and is committed to achieving universal primary education by the year 2010.
Nevertheless, figures from the Ministry of Education (1998), show that of the 1000 children registered in
primary one in 1990, only 208 reached the final year in 1996 without repeating. Although, in recent years,
the situation has improved, up to 100,000 drop out of primary school each year while drop out rates for
girls continue to be much higher that those for boys.
While factors such as rural poverty and unfavourable social attitudes have always posed a major obstacle
to the achievement of UPE in Rwanda, new challenges have emerged as a consequence of the war and
genocide of 1994 and the massive repatriation of refugees after 1996. Many children have lost their
parents and are now heading households, 80% of these are girls. Others need to spend time to take food to
their parents in prison. Furthermore, worsening rural poverty has forced many children onto the streets of
the capital city, Kigali and other urban centers. Some survive as porters, guards for vehicles and
sweet-sellers, while many fall into petty crime, drug abuse and prostitution with the subsequent risk of
being infected by HIV.
MINEDUC has reaffirmed its commitment to the goal of UPE and realizes that efforts must be made to
integrate school drop-outs and out-of school youth into the formal education and training system. During
preparation of the current RHRDP, the Bank was explicitly requested to provide support to MINEDUC's
efforts to meet the learning needs of Rwanda's out of school children and youth. Beginning with a pilot
project that uses existing structures and resources, MlNEDUC's program targets children between the ages
of 9 and 14 and aims to offer a flexible system of accelerated basic education and life skills. Once the pilot
phase has been evaluated, steps will be taken to integrate out-of-school youth into the existing components
of the HRDP in order to ensure the development of a nationwide system of centers where specially trained
teachers will be able to implement a flexible program of accelerated learning and life skills to Rwanda's out
of school children and youth.
Special needs education (SNE) for physically and mentally disabled and/or traumatized children:
Although the number of learners with special learning needs and/or disabilities in Rwanda is not known, it
is estimated that of some 4,000,000 children in Rwanda a minimum of 10% have special learning needs or
suffer from disabilities which greatly reduces their potential for learning and development. Moreover it is
estimated that less than 0.5% of these learners receive any form of education or training.
It is safe to assume that the proportion of learners with special learning needs has increased as a result of
the war and genocide of 1994. Many of these are orphans, traumatized children, neglected children and
children suffering from malnutrition and other problems related to the sharp increase in rural poverty
experienced in the afternath of the war. Developments in Rwanda over the past decade would seem to
justify a broadening of the scope of special education to include learners in need of special attention due to
psychological or social factors. To its credit, the Government of Rwanda recognizes the need to address
barriers to learning and development caused by the physically, mentally and psychologically disabled.
However, there is as yet, no coherent policy on SNE. Moreover, the level of financial, human and material
resources needed to meet the special needs of the physically, mentally and psychologically disabled remains
pitifully low.
-40 -



As the Government itself has noted, in order to fully achieve its objectives, the present Human Resource
Development Project must ensure that children with severe learning difficulties are given the opportunity to
become productive members of their communities. A serious effort should, therefore, be made to support
activities geared towards developing capacities for SNE at the central and local levels within the education
system and Rwandan society as a whole.
In recognition of the government's commitment to ensuring that children and adults, with barriers to
learning and development, can become productive members of their communities, the HRDP aims to
support: (i) the development of a national policy for SNE and the strengthening of the SNE department at
MINEDUC; (ii) awareness programs relating to SNE; (iii) the establishment of an SNE component in the
TTC curriculum and an SNE department at KIE; (iv) training of personnel and teachers in SNE
methodology; and (v) establishment of a decentralized program for all learners with special educational
needs including the establishment of Units/Resource Rooms in ordinary schools and the development of
pilot programns.
In supporting these initiatives the project aims to address learners' needs within the "mainstream" school,
using available resources to create opportunities to learn, in preparing them for life. The emphasis is thus
on reviewing schools and systems and changing them rather than trying to change students.
Education for peace and reconciliation: The Government of Rwanda sees fostering peace and
reconciliation as one of the main pillars of its education policy. The project will support the government's
efforts to create a culture of peace, through the reform of existing pedagogical practices and materials and
the development of innovative, non-formal approaches to education for peace, ethnic tolerance and respect
for human rights.
-41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
RWANDA: Human Resources Development Project
1. Community-Based School Rehabilitation and Development   4.63          1.93         6.56
(CSRDP)
2. School Quality Improvement Program                      3.45         11.33        14.78
3. HIV/AIDS Education & Prevention                         0.55          2.44         2.99
4. Capacity Building Program, Studies and Development of   1.41          4.21         5.62
Sector Wide Approach
5. Project Technical Support, Monitoring & Evaluation      0.88          0.39         1 .27
Total Baseline Cost                                       10.92         20.30        31.22
Physical Contingencies                                    0.81          1.08         1.89
Price Contingencies                                       2.37          1.59         3.96
Total Project Costs              14.10        22.97         37.07
Total Financing Required              14.10         22.97        37.07
Local  Foreign     ~~Total
A. Civil Works                                               1.92          4.73          6.65
B. Goods                                                     1.51          6.60          8.11
C. Consultants                                               0.00          5.02          5.02
D. CSRDP                                                     6.20          2.29          8.49
E. Training                                                  3.37          4.33          7.70
F. Operating Costs                                           1.10          0.00          1.10
Total ProjectCosts      14.10         22.97         37.07
Total Financing Required     14.10          22.97        37.07
- 42 -



Annex 4
RWANDA: Human Resources Development Project
I Economic and Financial Analysis
Background: The Rwanda Human Resource Development Project (RHRDP) will be a Specific
Investment Operation (SIL) aimed at increasing access and improving the quality of education through
construction of additional education facilities, support to teacher development, provision of textbooks and
learning materials, and strengthening management capacity within the education sector. This SIL is
envisaged as a precursor to a broader Sector Wide Approach Program (SWAP) that will aim to coordinate
all donor education assistance in support of the policies and strategies elucidated in the Ministry of
Education's Policy Framework and reduce the fragmentation of human and financial resources brought by
multiple and disparate donor projects. A number of Rwanda's main education donors appear interested in
supporting a SWAP, for example, the United Kingdom Department for Intemational Development (DFID)
has joined several of the Bank's preparatory missions.
Before a SWAP can be undertaken and attract significant donor attention, a sound and sustainable policy
framework should be fully articulated, costed out, and agreed by all major donors in the education sector.
Government of Rwanda has taken important steps to this end. Within the past few years, numerous
preparatory studies have analyzed the main constraints facing the education sector and proposed
recommendations and strategies to respond to these challenges. The Ministry has produced documents that
include sectoral reviews (Study of the Education Sector in Rwanda, August 1998); analyses of education
expenditure (Public Expenditure Review: Education Sector, January 1999); and diagnostic studies of
specific educational inputs (Proposalfor the Establishment of a Teacher Development and Management
System). Furthermore, a Project Preparation Committee has been established to prioritize and tackle issues
in various sub-sectors.
Nevertheless, Rwanda's current education development policy suffers from insufficient prioritization and
sustainability and would be greatly assisted by additional economic analysis that would include:
* More thorough justification for the objectives, strategies, and actions chosen by the Ministry of
Education. The analysis utilized in the policy documents suffers from a severe lack of education data
that is required to understand the problems and to develop appropriate responses.
* Greater prioritization of strategies and activities. Many strategies and activities are proposed, but it is
difficult to recognize which are the most pressing and important.
* More realistic timetable and sequencing of actions. In view of severe human capacity constraints and
limited financial resources, it is unlikely that Rwanda could meet the ambitious targets that are laid out.
The economic analysis undertaken to date, as well as that envisaged under the main project, aim to
strengthen MINEDUC's ability to develop a coherent, responsive, cost-effective and sustainable strategy in
support of the sector.
Main Education Issues: The extent to which the education system promotes social and economic
development in a country depends on the system's efficiency and accessibility. The allocation of public
resources should serve to increase the number of children reached, especially in the lower income groups,
as well as the quality and efficiency of schools. Expenditure that is targeted to these ends will maximize
the social returns to investment in education. Table A4.1 provides a snapshot of Rwanda's educational
status and suggests that significant strides remain to improving the quality, accessibility and efficiency of
- 43 -



the sector. It should be pointed out that many of the cited indicators are estimates based on projected
figures from before the war since MINEDUC has not collected school-based data since 1992. The
RHRDP will, as a priority, support development of an education management information system.
In 1998, primary enrollment was estimated to be about 1,273,000 students, with a gross enrollment rate
(GER) of approximately 89 percent. Large numbers of underage/overage students explain the significantly
lower primary net enrollment rate of about 65 percent. Efficiency gains, resulting from lower repetition
and dropout rates, could significantly reduce the number of over-age students and raise the net enrollment
rate. The existence of vast numbers of untrained primary teachers is also evident in the very high ratio of
pupils to trained teachers (125:1). Access to secondary education drops precipitously. Only about 90,000
secondary students (both cycles) were enrolled in government, church and private secondary schools.
Producing-and retaining adequate numbers of trained secondary school teachers is a challenge to the
secondary system as it is in the primary.
Table A4.1: Rwanda Basic Education Indicators, 1998
1998
Primary education
Gross enrollment rate                                         89%
Net enrollment rate (aged 7-12)                               65%
Average number of pupils per teacher                           56.9
Avg. number of pupils per qualified teacher                   123.4
Avg. number of pupils in a classroom                           58.0
Repetition rate                                                14%
Dropout rate                                                   10%
Primary to secondary transition rate                           18%
Secondary education: First cycle
Gross enrollment rate                                          12%
Net enrollment rate (aged 13-15)                               2%
Average number of pupils per teacher                          21.8
Avg. number of pupils per qualified teacher                   54.2
Avg. number of pupils in a classroom                           58.7
Repetition rate                                                2%
Dropout rate                                                    2
Secondary education: Secondary cycle
Gross enrollment rate                                          7%
Net enrollment rate (aged 16-18)                               4%
Average number of pupils per teacher                            16
Avg. number of pupils per qualified teacher                    16.1
Avg. number of pupils in a classroom                          129.7
Repetition rate                                                2%
Dropout rate                                                   2%
Post Secondary education
Number of technical students                                  5,010
Number of university students                                 4,406
- 44 -



Compounding an already difficult situation, the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic could have serious
consequences for Rwanda's education sector. There are various supply and demand factors through which
the sector is likely to be affected by the epidemic. On the supply side, teachers are a key ingredient in the
education process, and the better trained the teachers, the better the sector will serve the country. The
percentage of adults living with HIV has reached an estimated level of about 11 percent, and there is little
reason to believe that this percentage would be very different among teachers. The supply of teachers may
be reduced by illness, death and absenteeism due to funeral attendance and the need, especially for female
staff, to care for family members. Consequently, this would have serious consequences for the planning of
the number of teachers to be trained.
On the demand side, the projected number of children requiring education may decline. Declining birth
rates, increasing child mortality rates and increasing numbers of orphans are important underlying factors.
There is a real danger that families affected by AIDS will be forced to keep children out of school for a
variety of reasons: to care for ill household members, to replace lost labor, to care for other children, or for
financial reasons. Similarly, an increased number of drop-outs may be anticipated in these situations.
Therefore, it is likely that the education process and quality will be affected by: (i) decreased uptake of
education, and less continuity, as pupils' education is disrupted by illness of family members, death and
declining resources, especially in the case of female pupils; (ii) increased problems of schools facing
changing demands, decreased supply of staff and funding, and a growing number of orphans; (iii)
absenteeism and loss of teachers, with a move to a less qualified and experienced teaching force, as those
with experience and training are replaced by younger staff; and (iv) a growing shortage of resources from
parents, communities and the central government.
Education expenditures.
Rwanda's education expenditures have grown significantly over the past decade and, in 1999, constituted
17 percent of total discretionary government expenditures. Recurrent expenditures have grown faster than
capital expenditures and constituted 21 percent of total recurrent expenditures.
Table A4.2: Rwanda Education Expenditures
(in millions of Rwanda Francs, nominal terms)
1996           1999
Actual        Estimated
Total education expenditures                               14,192         29,317
Recurrent education expenditures                          8,626          20,552
Capital education expenditures                            5,569           8,765
As a share of Total Gov. expenditures                       14%            17%
As a share of Recurrent expenditures                       18%            21%
As a share of Capital expenditures                         11%            12%
Recurrent Expenditures by function
Primary                                                   63.8%          47.0%
Secondary                                                 13.8%          12.6%
Tertiary (incl. KIE, KHI, KIST, etc.)                     13.4%          35.5%
Cross-cutting                                             8.9%            4.9%
-45 -



Recurrent expend. by economic classification
Salaries and other wage payments                         86%            55%
Books and learning materials                              3%            12%
Furniture and equipment                                   3%            18%
Maintenance                                               2%             1 %
Student bursaries                                         6%            13%
1997 Unit Cost of Education                            Per student       Ratio
Primary education                                        5,736            1
Secondary education                                     18,107           2.6
Post-secondary education                                658,125         97.7
Within the education sector, tertiary expenditures have grown most rapidly over the past several years.
Partly, this reflects the significant start-up costs of a number of new institutions (Kigali Institute of Science
and Technology, Kigali Institute of Education, and Kigali Institute of Education). However, student
bursaries at the tertiary level have grown to account for over 13 percent of the total recurrent budget, which
is equivalent to the whole of the secondary education budget. The Ministry has made a decision in
principle to move these costs to the students and their families through a student loan scheme. The
mechanisms and timing of this policy must be further explored and donors (namely the Bank and DFID)
have agreed to assist its development and implementation.
The amount of recurrent resources used for salaries has remained fairly constant in nominal terms over the
past several years, and have fallen as a proportion of education expenditures. In 1999, salaries and wages
constituted 55 percent of education recurrent expenditures. Growth in the future teacher wage bill is likely,
as more teachers are trained. Books, leaming materials, furniture and equipment have grown as a share of
education expenditures and constituted 31 percent of expenditures. However, much of this growth reflects
funds associated with the new tertiary institutions. Furthermore, as noted above, tertiary student bursaries
grew to 13 percent.
There is no doubt that the continued operation of the education sector in Rwanda is due to the support of
parents and the wider community at all levels, however, it is difficult to assess the actual contribution of
these categories. The level and nature of student contributions varies widely between types of schools and
prefectures. A program is in place to exempt poor children who have been deeply affected by the war from
paying school fees, but both its success and the wider question of how many children are out of school as a
result of their inability to pay fees, is unknown. The Ministry has commenced research to assess
community contribution, and the Bank has agreed to support additional work in this area.
Medium Term Expenditure Framework. Rwanda's Ministry of Finance initiated development of a
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in 1998, with an early focus on several of the larger
spending ministries, including education. A draft report was produced in the education sector that lays out
several priority reforms needed to make the links between budget, expenditure, and outcomes more obvious
and transparent. The report also projects medium term expenditures (1999-2003) dependent on which of
several policy choices or scenarios the Ministry of Education pursues. To date the report represents the
work of a few individuals and future work is needed to disseminate the report's findings and reach wider
consensus on its implications and conclusions.
- 46 -



II Ongoing and Future Work
Policy Simulation Model: The RHRDP aims to respond to the above education trends by raising primary
net enrollment rates, improving the quality and efficiency of the primary system, and sustaining recent
achievements in secondary and tertiary education. Meeting such aims will require increasing the demand
for education through such measures as constructing additional classrooms in partnership with
communities, increasing the quality and relevance of education provision and, perhaps, reducing or
eliminating primary school fees for poor children. The intermediate and end targets of these initiatives, as
well as their cost and sustainability, are being assessed through a Policy Simulation Model that was
introduced during project preparation and will continue to be used and updated during the RI-HRDP. To
date, three main scenarios have been introduced. A Core Scenario illustrates the feasibility and financial
implications of achieving Universal Primary Education (UPE) by 2008, with an admission rate of 17
percent of children into public secondary education. The model first simulates student flows and, from this,
teacher and classroom needs are calculated. These needs then form the basis for estimating budgetary
costs. Alternative scenarios were then prepared as variations of this Core Scenario. The principal
alternatives examined were:
Scenario II: Reduced Repetition Rates. Under this scenario, it is assumed that Rwanda's high
primary repetition rates are lowered more rapidly to allow a more timely flow of students through the
system.
Scenario III: Increased student:teacher ratios. This scenario shows the impact of increasing the
numbers of students to qualified teacher in primary and secondary education.
Core Scenario (I): Attaining UPE by 2008.
The Core Scenario defines universal primary education to mean that, by 2008, all children will enter
primary school at age 7 and will remain in school until they have completed the six-year primary cycle.
The scenario assumes that repetition rates in primary education will slowly fall from their present levels of
around 30 percent to 20 percent by 2013, while dropout rates will be reduced to zero. About 17 percent of
children completing the primary cycle are assumed to progress into public secondary education.
Student-teacher ratios do not change significantly while teacher salaries rise as a result of untrained
teachers acquiring training and demanding commensurate salaries. Unit costs for books and learning
materials increase in real terms. Finally, tertiary expenditure is assumed to grow by 3 percent per year in
real terms. The quantitative implications of this scenario are shown in the following table:
Core Scenario 1: Attaining UPE by 2008
(Expenditures in Constant RWF)
1998/99         2003/04          2008/09
Primary Education
Enrollment
Numbers enrolled in primary (all ages)             1,288,617         1,602,694       2,323,215
Gross enrolment rate                                 87.9%            94.8%           119.1%
Repetition rate                                       29.6             23.4             20.8
Input requirements
Additional teachers required annually                2,800            5,100            7,100
Additional classrooms required annually               250             1,200            1,600
-47 -



Conventional Secondary Education
Enrollment
Numbers enrolled                                   59,731          86,826          158,360
Repetition rate                                     5%               3%              2%
Input requirements
Additional teachers required annually               570             680              1660
Additional classrooms required annually             300             340              1100
Total Education Expend. (in RWF millions)           17,500           25,600          40,900
Recurrent                                          13,900          18,900          28,200
Capital                                            3,500            6,700           12,700
Annual real expenditure growth over period                           8.0%             9.8%
Share of primary & secondary in total education    68.0%           72.6%            78.7%
Share of tertiary in total education               32.0%           27.4%            21.3%
Share of education in Total Gov't Expenditure      16.8%           19.7%            25.3%
Studentflows. To attain UPE by 2008, the number of children in primary school would need to grow by
nearly 80 percent. More primary graduates will also increase the demand for secondary education. The
number of children in the secondary cycle would increase 165 percent.
Input requirements. An ambitious programme of classroom construction and teacher training will be
necessary to accommodate the enrollment expansion. At present, about 160 primary classrooms are
constructed annually. Under the core scenario, additional classroom requirements per year are estimated to
rise to 1,600 after ten years. Recruitment needs for primary teachers, given the increased number of
students and unfortunate rate of deaths due to AIDS, will rise from around 2,800 currently to around 7,1 00
by 2008/09 and will require a huge expansion in TTC's or a change in the way teachers are trained.
Furthermore, means of attracting and retaining teachers in remote areas will be required. According to the
model, secondary teacher and classroom annual needs will rise to about 1700 and 1100, respectively, by
2008/09.
Budgetary Implications. The core scenario requires a real expansion of the education budget by 8-10% per
year between now and 2008. This will impose a very heavy burden on the budget in the context of an
economy projected to grow at 3% per year. Moreover, additional education expenditures beyond those
estimated in the Core Scenario may be necessary if the costs of providing education in isolated areas prove
to be higher than in presently served areas. Additional costs may also be associated with raising the quality
of education, upgrading schools, addressing constraints linked to parental attitudes, and so on. Finally, as a
result of significantly greater growth rates in expenditure for primary and secondary education than in
tertiary education, their combined share in total education expenditure grows from 68 percent to 78 percent
by 2008 while tertiary expenditure falls from 32 percent to 21 percent of education expenditure.
Summarv of Scenario Two: UPE with Rapid Reductions in Repetition Rates.
While the above Core Scenario envisages repetition rates that are cut by a third by 2013/14, these rates still
remain relatively high at 20 percent in primary education. Scenario two illustrates the budgetary cost
savings associated with a more ambitious reduction in primary repetition rates, with automatic promotion
after grades 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. The implications of these changes are shown below:
- 48 -



Scenario 2: UPE with Reductions in Repetition
(Expenditures in Constant RWF)
1998/99         2003/04          2008/09
Primary Education
Enrollment
Numbers enrolled in primary (all ages)            1,288,617        1,416,817       2,008,002
Gross enrollment rate                              87.9%            83.8%           102.9%
Repetition rate                                    29.6%             7.2%            5.1%
Input requirements
Additional teachers required annually               1840             4630            5665
Additional classrooms required annually               0              1150            1090
Conventional Secondary Education
Enrollment
Numbers enrolled                                   59,731           86,736          168,831
Repetition rate                                      5%              3%               2%
Input requirements
Additional teachers required annually                565             740             1725
Additional classrooms required annually              230             400              1130
Total Education Expend. (in RWF millions)            17,000          24,620           37,795
Recurrent                                          13,900           17,730          26,420
Capital                                             2,750           6,890            11,375
Annual real expenditure growth over period                            8.1%             8.9%
Share of primary & secondary in total education     68%             70.7%            77.2%
Share of Tertiary in total education                32%             29.3%            22.8%
Share of education in Total Gov't Expenditure *     16.8%           18.4%            23.7%
* Assumes total govemment expenditures grow in line with GDP growth at 3% per year.
Student flows: As in the first scenario, primary enrollment continues to grow rapidly in order to meet UPE
by the end of the period. However, reduced repetition leads to fewer overage students and greater
efficiency in the system. Primary enrollment increases by 56 percent between 1998 and 2008, with fewer
primary students lingering in the system and, instead, graduating to the secondary system. As a result,
secondary enrollment growth is rapid, growing by 180 percent over the ten-year period.
Input requirements: While classroom requirements are less than in the first scenario, the needs remain
high - nearly 1 1 00 per year by 2008/09 - compared to a much lower current construction rate. Primary
teacher requirements are about 1,440 less per year by 2008/09 than in the core scenario as a result of
reduced repetition, however secondary classroom and teacher requirements increase to nearly 1130 and
1725 per year, respectively, by 2008. Both figures are considerably higher than current output.
Budgetarv implications: Significant savings result from implementing policies to reduce repetition. By
-49 -



2008/09, the savings amount to more than RWF 3 billion per year. Nevertheless, the envisaged primary
and secondary enrollment expansion continues to demand a real expansion of the education budget by 8
percent per year between 1998 and 2008, greater than economic growth projected at 3 percent per year. As
tertiary expenditures are assumed to grow by 3.0 percent per year, less than in other subsectors, tertiary's
share of total education expenditure falls from 32 percent to 19.4 percent by 2013.
Summary of Scenario Three: IUPE, reduced repetition, and higher student-to-teacher ratio.
Scenario III illustrates the teacher demands and cost savings associated with raising the number of students
per qualified teacher, especially in the secondary system. Currently, Rwanda has a very low student:
teacher ratio of 20:1 in the secondary system. This scenario gradually raises the ratio to 40:1 over a
fifteen-year period while maintaining a high level of other inputs (books, learning materials, etc). The
teacher training and budgetary savings would change as follows:
Scenario 3: Higher Student-Teacher Ratios
(Expenditures in Constant RWF)
1998/99        2003/04        2008/09
Annual Teacher Requirements
Primary- no. of fewer teachers req. than scenario 2      -233           -235            -284
Secondary- no. of fewer teachers req. than scenario 2    -174           -216            -535
Annual Recurrent Expenditure (in millions)
Difference in recurrent expend. req. than scenario 2      0             -571           -1,227
Annual growth in expenditures                                           7.0%            8.1%
Share of education in total Gov't expenditure           16.8%           17.8%          22.6%
The demands on Rwanda to train sufficient primary and secondary teachers to cope with UPE are
significantly more manageable as a result of higher student to teacher ratios. With a primary student
teacher ratio of 60: 1, the Ministry will still have to graduate 5,300 teachers per year, many more than it
presently does, but 284 less per year than in scenario two. More significantly, with a secondary student
teacher ratio of 35:1 in 2008, the Ministry will have to graduate 1,190 secondary teachers, 535 less per
year than in scenario 2. Cost savings also result, with nearly RWF 2.5 billion saved each year.
Summary: Rwanda's successful development lies in providing its children with a quality education that
will enable the next generation to lead healthier, more productive lives. Universal primary education has
high economic as well as social rates of return. However, this worthy goal will demand huge financial,
teacher and classroom requirements. The core scenario outlined above indicates that annual real education
expenditures would need to grow about 9 percent per year. Given Rwanda's resource constraints, this level
of resources may not be possible. Policies that bring efficiency gains are clearly needed. There are clear
efficiency gains to be had by pursuing policies that reduce Rwanda's high repetition rates. By 2013,
education expenditures would be about 84 percent of what they would be without repetition reductions.
This percentage drops even further when secondary student teacher ratios are increased, with education
expenditures about 76 percent of what they would be without these policy changes.
Public Expenditure Review and Medium Term Expenditure Framework: Under RHRDP, financing will be
set aside to ensure that expenditure and budget management reviews, coordinated by a Steering Committee
- 50 -



within MINEDUC, are undertaken on an ongoing basis. It is expected that the reviews will produce
information that the Ministry will utilize in prioritizing and re-allocating annual expenditures. In
collaboration with the central ministries, the expenditure and budget management reviews will provide the
foundation for a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) that matches expected resources with
required expenditures. The establishment of a functioning MTEF will be an important and essential
foundation for moving to a SWAP that donors hope to support as a basis for future lending by 2003.
Future Economic Analysis: In addition to the ongoing revision of the education simulation model and of
the public expenditure analysis, several other types of economic analysis will be initiated (as early as the
PPF) and undertaken during the project. The results of the proposed analysis will be used to better inform
education policy makers and determine if Rwanda is prepared to utilize a SWAP approach to donor
financing. While insufficient data currently exist to undertake traditional cost-benefit analysis and benefit
incidence analysis, Rwanda's household survey will be strengthened to permit such analysis in future. In
particular, information on households' access to, and expenditure on, education will be developed to
determine the effect of income, location, gender, etc., on access to and progression in education. In
addition, a Social Assessment is currently underway with Bank assistance to identify issues related to
disadvantaged groups, especially orphans and child-headed households. The information from the
household survey and social assessment will be used to develop intervention strategies to widen access to
education and training, especially for targeted groups, as well as identify other areas of analysis which need
further investigation. Development of the MIS, already begun during project preparation (with PPF
financing), will be an ongoing and important feature of the project. Relevant education and financial
indicators, including school-level information indicators, will be agreed for inclusion in RHRDP efforts to
develop the MIS.
Finally, the AIDS epidemic and its impact on the education system will be further analyzed. Changes in
demand for education and in the supply of labor need to be factored into the planning for human resource
capacity of the sector. Projections that take these changes into account are needed to provide the basis for
this planning process. To inform decision makers on the response required from the Ministry of Education
in order to continue carrying out its mandate, insight is needed on: (i) the mechanisms by which households
react to the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, with regard to household members' access to education; (ii)
aspects that relate to the quality of teaching and learning, such as absenteeism, time on task, access to
educational materials, homework practices, etc.; (iii) the special needs of marginalized families and children
(e.g. severely impoverished households, childheaded households, street children); and (iv) relevant and
feasible risk-reduction strategies, both for teachers and pupils. MINEDUC has therefore decided to assess
the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on the education sector. This assessment will be undertaken through
studies that, firstly focus on the demographic implications of the epidemic for the education sector and,
secondly, which assess the socio-economic and quality related aspects of the AIDS impact on the sector.
- 51 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
RWANDA: Human Resources Development Project
Years Ending
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year6  I Year 6       Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            3.9        6.6       10.6        8.8       6.4        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2        0.2        0.3        0.2        0.2        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           4.1        6.8       10.9        9.0        6.6        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               4.1        6.8       10.9        9.0       6.6         0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   7.0        9.0       12.0        9.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.6        0.8        0.4        0.2        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       o0.        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      7.6        9.8       12.4        9.2        0.0       0.0        0.0
___
I Year  I   Year 2      Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5      Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 52 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
RWANDA: Human Resources Development Project
Procurement
Guidelines. Procurement will follow the World Bank guidelines for procurement of goods, works and
services; Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (1995 edition, lastly revised in
January 1999), and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(1997 edition, revised in September 1997 and January 1999). Preference for domestically manufactured
goods will be allowed in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. The project will use Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents for procurement of goods and works, and the Standard Request for Proposals for
selection of Consultants, as well as the Standard forms for Evaluation of bids and proposals. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will include: (a) explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and
award criteria; (b) local advertising with public bid opening; (c) award to lowest evaluated bidder; and (d)
foreign bidders would not be precluded from participation in NCB. Shopping procedures will include
written invitation for written quotations from at least three different suppliers, setting a deadline for
submission of quotations and opening them at the same time. Aggregate values for the different
procurement methods have a limited nature and will not be exceeded without prior IDA approval. For this
purpose, the EPO will maintain a procurement tracking system to notify IDA timely when these limits are
approached. For small community based procurement, simplified documents acceptable to the Bank will
be used. These simplified documents, which are already being used successfully in the Community
Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP - approved in FY98), are included in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM).
Procurement Capacity. A procurement capacity assessment was made of the Ministry of Education
(MINEDUC). The procurement assessment led to an action plan to strengthen MINEDUC's procurement
capacity, including the following measures: (i) hiring of a qualified architect, engineer, and procurement
specialist for punctual and specific interventions for training and capacity building; (ii) presentation of a
satisfactory annual procurement plan for the project's first year; and (iii) adoption of a project
implementation manual satisfactory to IDA. The first measure should be completed as soon as possible
and the remaining measures are conditions for effectiveness. The Procurement Capacity Assessment and
Procurement Plan are both contained in the Project File.
Reform of Rwanda's procurement system is underway with Bank assistance through an IDF Grant, which
includes the reform and strengthening of the National Tender Board (NTB). The NTB was set-up in 1997
by the government to organize and manage procurement activities in the country. The main measures
contained in the action plan conceming the NTB are the following: (i) finalization and adoption of the NTB
status; (ii) finalization and adoption of new procurement regulations; and (iii) recruitment of a qualified
Engineer to supervise the civil works service. The engineer has been on post since January 2000 and the
remaining measures will be completed by October 2000. The NTB will be responsible for reviewing
procurement planning, bidding documents and proposals of contract awarded for all civil works, goods,
equipment, materials and consultant services costing RWF 3 million equivalent or more.
As part of capacity building of the Community Development Committees (CDCs), responsible for the
Community-based school rehabilitation and development program, the CDCs will include selected members
at the village level ("Community Based Groups") in specific procurement steps i.e. bid opening, evaluation
and award of contracts, supervision and certification of completed contracts. The CDCs will receive
technical support from contracted firms and NGOs in production of technical designs and specifications,
- 53 -



bidding documents, cost data and supervision of engineering consultants. Individual CDCs may also
delegate part of their procurement responsibilities to a "partner organization"(NGOs).
Procurement Plans. Except for community based subprojects, a draft global procurement plan has been
prepared covering the entire project period, and a specific procurement plan for the first year of the project,
showing contract packages, estimated cost and procurement method, and processing times per package till
completion (including bidding documents for items to be procured under ICB in the first year of the
project). Procurement for community based subprojects in the CDCs (such as school
rehabilitation/reconstruction) will be determined during project implementation. The appraisal document of
each approved subproject will include a procurement schedule for completing the subproject. By
September 1 of each year, the EPO will prepare and submit to IDA, for review and comments, a specific
procurement plan for the particular year as part of its annual work program. The General Procurement
Plan and First Year Detailed Procurement Plan are both contained in the project file.
Procurement Notices. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the UN Development
Business and in a National paper of wide circulation as provided for in the Guidelines. The GPN will be
updated annually in case ICB procurement is not completed in the first year of the project. Specific
Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required for goods and works contracts procured by ICB and NCB, and
for "Expression of Interest" for consultant services contracts exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent, to prepare
a short list. SPNs will be published in local newspapers and distributed to the Embassies of member
countries represented locally.
As a promotional measure and to create awareness in the private sector (civil works contractors, suppliers
of equipment and spare parts, commune-based contractors and masons), the EPO will prepare and publish
annually, in local newspapers of wide circulation, a Promotional Procurement Notice (PPN) of business
opportunities generated by CDCs and Communities in education programs using a format to be prepared
and included in the PIM. The PPN will contain information on estimated demand and contract
opportunities by CDCs and communities for construction or rehabilitation of classrooms or the entire
school.
Procurement ImplementatioiL Procurement will be the responsibility of the following institutions: (i) The
Project Office of the Ministry of Education (EPO); (ii) The Community Development Committees (CDCs);
and (iii) The National Tender Board (NTB). Their role, responsibility and capacity are succinctly
described below.
The EPO will be responsible for the procurement of all the activities of the project except for those
undertaken under the Community-based school rehabilitation and development program component
(CSRDP). The EPO will prepare and update the procurement plan, prepare bidding documents, participate
in the bid evaluations, and monitor and manage the execution of contracts. The EPO will work closely with
the other different departments of MOE, as well as with the institutions associated with the Ministry
(UNR, KIE, KIST, ISAE, KHI, etc.) which will benefit of project financing.
The CDCs will be responsible for procurement under the CSRDP. The CDCs will prepare and update
procurement plans, bidding documents, participate in bid evaluations or evaluate the bids (depending on the
value of the bids), and monitor and manage the execution of contracts. Individual CDCs may delegate part
of their responsibilities regarding procurement to a partner agency. Such delegation will require a written
agreement between the CDC and the partner agency. This type of agreement may be most appropriate for
those CDCs with little or no experience in procurement. Procurement will start in those CDCs which have
already some previous experience under the Community Reintegration and Development Program (CRDP)
- 54 -



currently being implemented. Short-term procurement specialists will be hired to visit CDCs during peak
periods in the procurement cycle. Experience will be documented by the EPO and the short term visiting
procurement specialists, for analysis by Bank procurement missions, to improve on the procurement
methods for subsequent subprojects. The project will make use of the procurement training module and
training activities put in place with the assistance of CRDP. Procurement training of CDC personnel is one
of the focal points of the action plan agreed with the Borrower.
Procurement Methods. Procurement under the project will involve the following:
(i) Communitv-based School Rehabilitation and Development Prog_ram (CSRDP): This component
consists mainly of the construction of classrooms, school administrative buildings, and latrines. These
facilities will be constructed by communities through the subproject appraisal and approval process, and in
accordance with simplified procurement methods referred to in Section 3.15 of the Bank's Guidelines on
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. No ICB procurement is envisaged in the community
subprojects due to their small size and remote location. The community development part of this
component (estimated to cost US$ 1.04 million) will involve community mobilization and assistance in
preparation of subprojects, employment of consultants for engineering services for design and supervision
of construction and for capacity building activities/training. Contracts under community subprojects will
be packaged by CDCs and procured on the basis of demands from communities. Such contracts estimated
to cost between US$10,000 and US$30,000 will be processed and awarded including advertisement at the
commune level. Contracts estimated to cost below US$10,000 may be awarded by written solicitation of
written quotations from not less than three contractors or by direct contracting to firms with on-going
similar contracts, if their performance has been satisfactory.
The procurement procedures for this component are detailed in the project implementation manual (PIM),
and use the same simplified documents for bids and proposals as in the CRDP. As in the CRDP,
procurement and disbursement procedures in the CSRDP are based on the results of four participatory
appraisals and documents prepared in the Bank for community based procurement, namely: (a) Guidelines
for simplified community-based procurement and disbursement; and (b) Manual for designing procurement
and disbursement mechanisms. The PIM will be translated into Kinyarwanda to enable the CDC members
to review and discuss the generic procedures. Each CDC will be able to adjust certain parts to better
reflect local circumstances as specified in the PIM.
(ii) Works: Contracts for civil works under the project, estimated to cost more than US$500,000, will be
awarded on the basis of ICB. These will include: the rehabilitation/extension of the Kigali Institute of
Education (estimated to cost USS 2.24 million), the construction of the National Examination Center (
estimated to cost US$ 1.01 million), the construction of 2 new regional offices (estimated to cost US$ 1.0
million) and the rehabilitation/extension of 6 Secondary Model Schools (estimated to cost US$ 0.56
million). Works contracts estimated to cost more than US$30,000 but less than US$500,000, up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 1.03 million, will be awarded on the basis of NCB. These will include: the
rehabilitation of 4 regional offices, the construction of two Teacher Training Centers, the construction of
the Kigali Institute of Education, the rehabilitation/extension of 6 Teacher Training Schools and
rehabilitation of the EPO.
(iii) Goods: Total purchase of goods is estimated at US$ 8.11 million. These will be packaged to the extent
possible, and procured as follows: Goods contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 will be
awarded on the basis of ICB. Contracts for goods estimated to cost between US$100,000 and US$30,000
will be awarded on the basis of NCB up to an aggregate of US$ 2.35 million. Goods estimated to cost less
than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$300,000 equivalent,
- 55 -



may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures. Similarly,
goods available in Rwanda, estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures. Vehicles, motorcycles and small equipment estimated to cost more
than US$75,000 equivalent per contract, and to be procured over the project period in several contracts as
needed, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$400,000, may be procured from IAPSO.
(iv) Consultant Services:
(a) Consultant firms (or partner organizations) in charge of supervision of works, technical assistance to
communities, and community development services will be selected using the Quality-and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) method. Selection on the basis of qualifications (CQ) will be the most appropriate
method for selecting firms for training consultants. Financial and technical audit services may be procured
under contracts in accordance with the provision of Least Cost Method of Selection specified in the
Consultant Guidelines. Short-lists for contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 may be comprised
of national consultant firms if at least three qualified local firms are available.
(b) Individual consultants, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, will be selected in
accordance with Section V of the Guidelines for consultant services, for the following tasks:
*   project management and coordination under the Project;
*   expatriate staff to replace national staff temporarily when national staff is on training;
*   development of teacher guides at all levels of education;
*   adaptation and writing of textbooks, development of a textbook policy;
*   production and dissemination of teaching materials on HIV/AIDS; and
* staff training in various institutions, resource persons in seminars, workshops and awareness-raising
campaigns.
(c) Strengthening of decentralization and of the general pedagogical inspection service. Services for
training on peace education under the Project, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured on
the basis of single source selection procedures.
(v) Miscellaneous:
(a) Capacity Building. Sector strengthening and training activities estimated to cost US$ 7.70 million will
cover training for various capacity building activities, training of EPO and CDC personnel in delivering
various services under the subproject components, and also for consultation and review workshops. By
September 1 of each year, the EPO would prepare and submit to IDA a training plan for the particular year
for IDA's review and comments before it is implemented.
(b) Proiect Management. An estimated amount of US$ 1.11 million is included in the project for financing
incremental operating costs of EPO and CDCs (fuel, consumable, vehicle parts, office supplies, etc.).
- 56 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurem: t.Methhod
Expenditure Category             ICS                                          NB.F  -    TotaW Cost
1. Works                             5.50            1.15           0.00            0.00           6.65
(4.95)         (1.03)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (5.98)
2. Goods                             4.47            2.47            1.17           0.00           8.11
(4.47)         (2.35)          (1.15)         (0.00)         (7.97)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00            5.02           0.00           5.02
Consultants                        (0.00)          (0.00)         (5.02)          (0.00)         (5.02)
4. Grants under CSRDP                0.00            0.00            8.48           0.00           8.48
(0.00)         (0.00)          (7.60)         (0.00)         (7.60)
5. Training                          0.00            0.00           7.70            0.00           7.70
(0.00)         (0.00)          (7.70)         (0.00)         (7.70)
6. Incremental Operating             0.00            0.00            1.11           0.00           1.11
Costs *                             (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.73)         (0.00)         (0.73)
Total                             9.97            3.62           23.48           0.00          37.07
(9.42)         (3.38)         (22.20)         (0.00)         (35.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2I Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to: (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
* The term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
implementaltion, management and monitoring, including office supplies, office administration and
telecommunications, special account banking charges, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding
salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
- 57 -



Prior Review
Subject to IDA prior review: (i) goods contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more
and civil works contract estimated to cost $500,000 or more; (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (iii) the first two contracts procured under national competitive bidding
procedures; and (iv) the first two contracts for civil works for Sub-projects in two different Communes.
For Consultants services, all terms of reference for contracts under post review and any single source
contracts will be subject to prior review. Contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 for individuals and
US$100,000 for firns or more, will be subject to prior review in accordance with the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines. Contracts not subject to prior review
will be selectively reviewed (one in every four contracts) by IDA during project implementation and will be
govemed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines and the
last sub-paragraph of paragraph 2 (a) and paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms            2.53      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.72       0.00      3.25
(2.53)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.72)    (0.00)    (3.25)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.36       1.08      0.33       0.00      1.77
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.36)     (1.08)     (0.33)    (0.00)     (1.77)
Total   2.53      0.00      0.00       0.36       1.08      1.05       0.00      5.02
(2.53)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.36)    (1.08)     (1.05)    (0.00)     (5.02)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B. F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 58 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Co-itract Value                               C contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Cateorg       (US thousands)              Method                 (US$ millons)
1. Works                      above 500                   ICB                      5.5
(All)
below 500                 NCB
0.99
(First two contracts, rest
post review)
2. Goods                      above 100                   ICB                     4.47
(All)
below 100 & over 30            NCB
0.19
below 30          National/International   (First two contracts, rest
Shopping               post review)
3. Services                   above 100                  QCBS                     2.53
A. Firms                       below 100             QCBS/CQ/LCS                  (All)
0.72
(All TORs)
B. Individuals                 above 50                   CQ
Single Source               3.44
below 50                  CQ                    (All TORs)
Single Source
4. Subproject Grants           below 30             Simplified bidding            0.49
procedures         (First two contracts, rest
post review)
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 18.33 million (or
52% of total cost
excluding
contingencies.
Subprojects not
included)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6* months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 59 -



* One every 6 months for overall project supervision (includes special procurement supervision for
post-review/audits) and quarterly for the CSRDP component. Funds have been allocated under the project
to recruit procurement specialists quarterly to visit the CDCs at crucial moments in the procurement cycle
to support the procurement process.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-60 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Procurement and disbursement procedures are based on two Bank documents, namely: (a) Guidelines for
simplified community-based procurement and disbursement; and (b) Manual for designing procurement and
disbursement mechanisms. The project will otherwise follow World Bank's Guidelines on procurement of
goods, works and services: Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995,
revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (for goods and works); and
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999 (for consultants). The project implementation manual includes detailed
procedures for procurement, financial management and disbursement and will be translated into
Kinyarwanda to enable all CDC members to review and discuss the generic procedures.
The CDC will be entrusted with financial management at the local level. Payments to implementers will be
made according to a predetermined payment schedule which will be part of the sub-project proposal.
Transfers will be effected expeditiously when due, and financial management will follow transparent
procedures that will be standardized across the participating communes. After an initial advance, each
subsequent transfer will be made on the basis of justified expenditures and according to the disbursement
schedule. For civil works, the final tranche will be paid upon approval of the quality of works by an
independent technical auditor or the architect/Engineer of the EPO. The Administration Sub-Committee
will undertake these activities under the guidance of the CDC Secretariat.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in LSillion            Financing Percentage
Civil works                                 5.49                  100% For. & 90% Loc.
Vehicles, equipment and materials           7.16                  100% For. & 95% Loc.
Consultants' services                       4.66                         100%
Grants under CSRDP                          6.56                100% of amounts disbursed
Training, workshops & study tours           6.44                          100%
Incremental operating costs                 0.93                          80%
Refunding of the PPF                        0.60
Unallocated                                 3.16
Total Project Costs                         35.00
Total                                       35.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement will be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for contracts and purchase
orders with an individual value less than that requiring IDA's prior review. These will include expenditures
made for: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000; (b) civil works under contracts not exceeding
$500,000 equivalent; (c) civil works for sub-projects, under contracts not exceeding $200,000; (d)
consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (e) individual consultants' services
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (f) training and all operating costs; all under such
terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
- 61-



Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by EPO and will be made
available for review when requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements
are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the procedures defined in the
disbursement letter.
Special account:
Special Account: To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for grants, works, goods and
services, the EPO will open a Special Account in the Central Bank to cover part of IDA's share of eligible
expenditures to be managed and administered by the executing agency. The Central Bank of Rwanda
(BNR) meets the criteria for acceptability outlined in OP 12.20 Annex A. The Authorized Allocation of
the Special Account would be US$ 3 million, covering an estimated four months of eligible expenditures
financed by IDA. The initial advance will be kept at a limited amount while the project activities get
underway, but it will increase once full execution begins. The EPO will be responsible for submitting
monthly replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent
possible, all of IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the Special Account. The Special
Account will be audited annually by external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Government will recruit
by March 31, 2001, an external auditor, acceptable to IDA to undertake the audit of annual financial
statements of the Project under audit TORs acceptable to the IDA.
Project Account: The EPO will also open a Project Account in a commercial bank into which the
Government's contribution will be deposited in annual tranches to cover its share of eligible expenditures.
Community Project Accounts: Due to the decentralized approach of the project and following the
arrangements agreed in the CRDP, each CDC will open a Community Project Account (CPA) in
commercial bank branches close to the geographic location of the participating communes. This CPA will
be administered by the CDC Accountant and should be kept separately of any other bank account held by
the CDC. In order to facilitate payment to the CDCs, the Borrower will be authorized by the Bank to
withdraw funds in local currency from the Special Account and use them as an advance for a period not
exceeding 90 days to the CPAs. Upon validation of the HRDP subprojects program, the Administration
sub-committee of the CDC will prepare an operating budget and financial plan with cash-flow requirements
and will require an advance covering no more than 90 days from the EPO. The CDC Accountant will
account monthly to the EPO for the advance.
Financing Plan: The IDA credit will finance 95% of the total project cost (US$ 37 million); Government
and communities will finance about 4% and 1% respectively (approximately US$ 1.4 million and $US 0.6
million equivalent respectively). It is intended that parallel financing totaling about £ 21 million (US$ 34
million) will be provided by DFID primarily in the form of budget support over a three year period with a
minority element reserved specifically for capacity building activities and technical assistance. To enable
preparatory activities to take place DFID has made available a sum of around £650 000.
DFID does not intend to specify sub-components for its funding, but rather to encourage MINEDUC to
disburse funds in support of its own overall emergent strategic plan for education. However, concerning
the capacity building element, DFID has identified several areas in which it would want to provide specific
assistance. Under the four components, DFID intends to provide support as follows:
Community-Based School Rehabilitation and Development Program (CSRDP): DFID will consider ways
of assisting the project to involve Community Development Committees in the building of educational
infrastructure and capacity.
- 62 -



School Qualitv Improvement Programs DFID will support the Pre- and In-service training of teachers, and
the development of plans for such training; the National Curriculum Development Center's own strategy
and capacity; the development of a Policy and Strategy for the provision of textbooks and learning
materials; and ongoing support to the National Examination Council.
HIV/AIDS: DFID recognizes the enormous challenge of this crisis, and that the need for a response from
the education system is crucial. It will collaborate with all concerned and will provide resources to plan
and carry out the necessary interventions.
Capacitv Building, Studies and the Development of a SWAP: DFID intends to contribute financial
resources and technical assistance to the following: strengthening capacities for educational management
and planning, including construction; reinforcing the system of decentralization and General Inspectorate,
together with focused training in specific areas, such as financial management and computer based training.
Also, it is prepared to support the building of capacity in the National Curriculum Development Centre, the
National Examinations Council, the school inspection system, the development of a national policy and
strategy for textbook provision and the arrangements for teacher training (including INSET). DFID will
also finance studies into the financing of Higher Education, barriers to access to education and is prepared
to assist with such others as are considered necessary to advance the various elements of the education
system.
Recurrent Cost Implications: Incremental recurrent costs concern two major elements: (i) Operating costs
of project supported institutions and programs, including increases in teachers' salaries after completion of
planned training programmes. This does not apply to the bulk of the in-service teacher training since
certification does not necessarily accompany the training. However, for those trained under the pre-service
training program and foreign training program, these costs will only start showing up in about four years
when the first graduates enter the system. They are being factored into the SWAP being developed to
follow this interim operation. (ii) Transitory incremental salary costs associated with project management
and coordination (US$158,000 per annum). These will disappear or fall as the project is completed and a
SWAP is developed and some of the current project staff are absorbed by MINEDUC.
- 63 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
RWANDA: Human Resources Development Project
LProect $chedule.                      PlManned                     Ata
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12                            12
First Bank mission (identification)              05/15/99                      05/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                      02/20/2000                    02/22/2000
Negotiations                                     04/24/2000                    04/24/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/15/2000                                      l
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality_
Peter Ngomba                       Team Leader
Abdelwahed Zhiri                   Education / Teacher Training
Sakhevar Diop                      Textbooks
Souleymane Zerbo                   Constructions
Kristine Hauge                     Early Childhood Development/Gender
David Bruns                        Economist
Aboubacar Magassouba               Implementation Specialist
Anne Anglio                        Task Assistant/COSTAB
Toni N. Kayonga                    Operations Officer
Prosper Nindorera                  Operations Officer-Procurement
Prosper Biabo                      Financial Management
Ugo Solinas                        Post-Conflict
Raymond Martin                     Public Health
Abdoulsalam Drabo                  Regional NGO Coordination
Sjaak de Boer                      Social Fund
Ibrahim Dione                      Logical Framework
Abdul Haji                         Financial Management
Quality Assurance Team
Harry Patrinos:      Economic analysis of the project
Vincent Greany:     Education and assessment aspects
Sheila Dutta:        HIV/AIDS aspects
Markus Kostner:      Post-conflict aspects
Florian Fichtl:      Post-conflict aspects
- 64 -



Quality Enhancement Review Panel
Maris O'Rourke (Panel Leader): Country knowledge/sector economics and policy/decentralized
management
Alain Mingat:       Economics of education
Betty Bigombe:       Post-conflict reconstruction
Katherine Crawford:   EIV/AIDS prevention and external panel member (USAID)
Hongyu Yang:         Observer
-65 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
RWANDA: Human Resources Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Concept (Project Appraisal) Documents
Concept Review Meeting Memo Date July 21, 1999
PCD
Project Information Document
Summary of Comments and Issues
Minutes of Concept Review Meeting Dated August 8, 1999
Procurement Capacity Assessment and Plan
General Procurement Plan
First Year Detailed Procurement Plan.
C. Other
Ministry of Education: Mini-Retreat Recommendations Dated June 18,1999
Ministry of Education: Members of National Team for Preparation of project
Ministry of Education: Education Sector Policy
*Including electronic files
-66 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
RWANDA: Human Resources Development Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                         Purpose                                        IBRD       IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P051931        1999 Rwanda                      CRDP                                                   0.00       5.00        0.00       4.36        0.30       0.00
P057294        1999 Rwanda                      EC.REC.CREDIT                                          0.00      75.00        0.00      33.08       19.62       0.00
P002237        1991 Rwanda                      HEALTH & POPULATION                                    0.00      19.60        0.00       1.51        1.24       1.25
P058038        2000 Rwanda                      LIL AGRICULTURE                                        0.00       5.00        0.00       4.81       -0.30       0.00
P002262        1994 Rwanda                      PRIVATE SECTOR                                         0.00      12.00        0.00       1.39        1.51       0.00
P002241        1993 Rwanda                      Rw-Energy Sector                                       0.00      26.00        7.01       5.25      12.73        5.72
P002261        1992 Rwanda                      Rw-PNAS                                                0.00      19.10        0.00       1.18        077       -0.13
P002242        1991 Rwanda                      Rwa-Education Sect. Cr                                 0.00      23.30        0.00       1.26        2:05       2.05
P002238        1990 Rwanda                      TRANSPORT SECTOR                                       0.00      85.00        0.00      33.23     -14.71       16.17
Total:        0.00       270.00         7 01       86.07      23.21      25.06
- 67 -



RWANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval          Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:           0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                             Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic
1998                AEF Highland                        .526       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           .526       0.00       0.00      0.00
- 68 -



Annex 10: Rwanda at a Glance                                                   9/13/99
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Rwanda      Africa  income      Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       8.1      628      3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   230        510      520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      1.9       323     1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                        1.6       2.6       1.7
Labor force (Y)                                       2.3       2.6       1.9     GNP            a                 Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                             capita                       enroilment
Poverty (5% of population below national poverty line)  70
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                 6        33        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      40         51        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              124        91        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             29        ..        ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                44         47        74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   37        42       32
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)   89        77       108                 Rwanda
Male                                                89         84       113   .             Low-income group
Female                                              88         69       103   :
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                           0.8      2.2       1.9       2.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP               15.1     15.7      10.0       9.9                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           14.3      7.5       7.7       5.3
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                    11.7      4.0      -7.7      -7.3
Gross national savingsfGDP                  19.6      9.2      -1.0      -3.3
Current account balance/GDP                  2.8     -8.5      -7.7      -8.3
Interest payments/GDP                        0.1      0.3       0.6       0 3     Domestic          i          Investment
Total debt/GDP                              11.3    28.1       63.2      58.7     Savings
Total debt servicelexports                   0.9    13.8       23.8      17.6                        |
Present value of debtlGDP                      ..      ..      33.2      33.1
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    403.3    578.4
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.4     -3.6    10.9       10.0       6.8                   Rwanda
GNP per capita                      1.1    -4.6    -5.6         7.3          ..                 Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       7.6    -9.6      13.4     -12.2      13.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment l%)
Agriculture                                 51.1     41.3      37.5      34.0
Industry                                    23.3     19.5      26.0      23.5      50
Manufacturing                              15.6     11.8      19.0      15.9        o
Services                                    25.6    39.2       36.5      42.5                       , ss    95    6   97   98
Private consumption                         71.0    82.5       97.0      96.3    -100
General govemment consumption               17.3    13.5       10.7      11.0                    GD0       ^  GDP
Imports of goods and services               17.7     19.1      25.4      22.4
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  2.4    -4.9        7.8       9.1    60
Industry                                     6.3   -2.3    16.4    9.8   30
Manufacturing                               6.1      1.4      16.6      10.4     0                      -
Services                                     9.4    -3.0        9.9      11.2    30                 95
Private consumption                          4.1      0.0      20.8       5.6   -e0f
General government consumption               4.2     -4.3      -2.6      27.7
Gross domestic investment                   11.4    -7.0       28.3      30.0   -90
Imports of goods and services                9.5      5.9      43.0       4.7             -Exports            l 0  Imports
Gross national product                       4.4     -3.6      10.8       9.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
69



Rwanda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflaton(%)
(% change)                                                                           80
Consumer pnces                                 13.7      4.1       12.0       6.8      0
Implicit GDP deflator                          13.5      0.7       18.6       5.2    40
Government finance                                                                    20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                       .
Current revenue                                  ..    13.5        17.1      15.2             93   94    95    96    97    98
Current budget balance                            ,      o0.1       5.7       3.6                -GDP deflator  - e  CPI
Overall surplusideficit                          ..    -9.6        -2.5      -2.8
TRADE
(USS millions)                                         1987       1997      1998      Export and inmport levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            126      114         93        62    s00
Coffee                                         ..       92         45        27
Other agriculture                              ..        8         21        23     400
Manufactures                                   ..        2         18         9     300
Total imports (cif)                              ..     313        343       329      200    j                 jI jj
Food                                                    24         54        49
Fuel and energy                                ..       52         32        40    ,00
Capital goods                                  ..       96         62        61    .
Export price index (1995=100)                            79        117        89
Import price index (1995=100)                            86         95        87               a Exports      *limports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 93       123       103    ,                                           |
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS nillions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  137      160        144       109       0
Imports of goods and services                  177      412        474       467
Resource balance                               -39      -252      -330      -358
Net income                                       -4     -14        -15         -6
Net current transfers                           65      126        201       191                         r
Current account balance                         21      -140      -144      -173       -
Financing items (net)                          -23         5       181       196   ' :
Changes in net reserves                          2      135        -37        -23     -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          83      164        153       170
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$)               92.8     79.7      301.5     312.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997       1998
(US$ millions)                                                                        CompositIon of total debt, 1998 (USS millIons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            87       605      1,176     1,222
IBRD                                           0        0          0         0                      G 57
IDA                                           30      251        558       639                 F: 31
Total debt service                                1       24        37        21
IBRD                                           0        0          0         0
IDA                                            0        3         10         9
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                      3: 639
Official grants                               34       70        447                    D:284
Official creditors                            24       92         67        81
Private creditors                              4        0         30
Foreign direct investment                      5       18          1
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0                             C: 56
World Bank program
Commitments                                   14       38                   50      A  - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
C   B - IDA  D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                  9       39         83        67      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Principal repayments                           0         1         6         5
Net flows                                      9       39         77        62                                          ....1.
Interest payments                              0        2          4         4
Net transfers                                  9       37         73        57
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/13/99
70



Additional
Annex No.: 11
RWANDA: COUNTRY SITUATION UPDATE
On June 29, 1999, the Board of Directors of IDA discussed a CAS Progress Report (CASPR) for Rwanda,
an update of the CAS endorsed by the Board on April 7, 1998. The CASPR emphasized that to achieve its
goals of national reconciliation and sustained economic growth and poverty reduction, Rwanda needed to:
(i) reintegrate all displaced persons and assist the victims of genocide; (ii) improve justice and governance;
(iii) revitalize the rural economy; (iv) invest in human resources, including developing institutional capacity
and controlling the spread of HIV/AIDS; (v) undertake policy reforms and investments to promote the
private sector, build a broad-based inclusive economic system, enhance the economy's competitiveness and
promote exports; and (vi) improve donor coordination and resource mobilization. The Board endorsed a
two-year (FYOO-01) operational program, with a lending programn in the range of US$ 120-160 million.
Lending at the higher end of the range would only be justified if performance continued to improve. In line
with continuing concerns about the fluidity of events in the Great Lakes sub-region, the Board requested
that a brief update on developments in Rwanda be provided to the Board along with the last operation for
which approval would be sought in FY00. This section provides a summary of recent developments in
Rwanda, the progress in the implementation of the program endorsed by the Board, and the plans for the
rest of the CAS period.
Political and Social Developments
Rwanda has remained free of serious security problems since late 1998 and all appears quiet in the hitherto
troubled north-west of the country. Normal economic and social activities have resumed and the permanent
resettlement of displaced people is underway. The local councils elected in March 1999 are now
functioning and the central budget has started to make budget allocations directly to the prefectures. The
bill, to permit the use of traditional methods of justice (gacaca), to clear the cases of the bulk of the
120,000 detained genocide suspects, was approved by the Cabinet on April 18, 2000 and is expected to be
sent to the National Assembly soon. With Gacaca, community-level councils will adjudicate many of the
cases. However, suspects falling under category I (planners and perpetrators of the genocide) will not go
through the Gacaca. Those will continue to be handled via the International Tribunal in Arusha. While the
bill is under consideration, training of the elected local officials on the Gacaca system has started.
Both the Human Rights Commission, and the Commission for National Reconciliation (to conduct broad
dialogue in the country on rebuilding the society and facilitating the coexistence of all Rwandans), are now
fully functioning. In 1999, the Forum of political parties agreed to extend the term of the transitional
Government of National Unity to 2003. The Commission on Legal and Constitutional Affairs, to draft a
new constitution for a democratic Rwanda beyond the transitional period and to underpin elections in 2003,
is not yet operational. The establishment of the national civilian police force, to replace the para-military
gendarmerie in law enforcement, albeit delayed, has been undertaken.
Transparency and Accountability in Public Management. The National Tender Board (NTB) and the
Office of the Auditor-General established in 1998 and 1999, respectively, are now fully functional. Both
institutions however suffer from the inability to find suitably qualified staff to enable these agencies to
satisfactorily carry out their missions. The Auditor-General plans to carry out, in 2000, comprehensive
audits of six ministries including the ministry of defense. The Office is receiving technical assistance from
Sweden, Canada and other donors. The Bank also intends to provide assistance through an IDF grant in
- 71 -



FY2001, to fill gaps not covered by the donors. The Government has introduced the medium term
expenditure framework (MTEF) approach to budgeting. This will make the budget results oriented and
more transparent.
During 1999, the Bank's Country Office assisted the Government to organize two seminars on Fighting
Corruption that has helped to open up the corruption issue for public discussion. Since then, the National
Assembly has taken up the mantle of fighting corruption and abuse of office by public officials. Its
investigations of corruption led to the resignations of three ministers in 1999 and contributed to the
resignations of the Speaker of the National Assembly in January 2000 and the Prime Minister in February
2000.
Functioning of Transitional Institutional Mechanisms. The President of the Republic resigned in March
2000, citing, among other reasons what, he considered to be encroachment by the National Assembly on the
powers of the executive branch and the manner in which it was conducting the investigations on corruption.
These resignations of three of the top four members of the coalition government have however put to test
the durability of the government of national unity and the constitutional mechanisms for changes at the top
levels of Government.
The selection of a new Prime Minister and cabinet members has followed the procedures laid out in the
1993 Arusha Accord. The process for the selection of the interim president was not clear, and the Supreme
Court was consulted and it ruled that the Vice-President, not the Speaker of the National Assembly, would
be the interim president. In accordance with the procedures, a joint session of the council of ministers and
members of National Assembly elected Major General Paul Kagame as the new president, from two
candidates presented by the Rwanda Patriotic Front, the party of the outgoing president. The selection of
the new president completes the reshaping of the Government that started in 1997. Major General Kagame
is the main figure left from the group that took office in July 1994 following the genocide.
The cabinet is now composed of relatively younger and more technocratic ministers. Early indications are
that these changes are having a positive effect on overall governance and progress on socio-economic
development. Processing of the Human Resources Development and Rural Water Supply projects did not
suffer any delays on the Rwandese side, as would sometimes happen with such changes in Government.
The respect by all parties of the procedures for change bodes well for political transitions in Rwanda.
However, these changes may create the impression.of political instability and fracture in the governing
coalition.
Progress in the Economy and Economic Reforms
In 1999, the economy of Rwanda continued to grow, albeit at a lower than expected rate. Real GDP grew
by an estimated 5.9 percent, below the projected rate of 8 percent. The main sources of growth were
agriculture and construction. Industrial output declined as a result of sluggish demand for industrial
products, due to the reduction of the activities and employment by international NGOs and relief agencies.
The increases in agricultural production drove down the prices of foodstuffs, consequently the CPI declined
by 2.5 percent in 1999. Real GDP is projected to grow by 6 percent in 2000 and the CPI to increase by
2-3 percent. Agriculture and construction are expected to remain the major sources of growth.
The Government remains committed to a strong reform program as the foundation for sustaining long-term
growth, reducing poverty and building an inclusive economic system. A second-year Policy Framework
Paper (PFP) of October 1999 outlined the Government's reform agenda and, in November 1999, the IMF
Board approved a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement, to continue to support the
- 72 -



reform program, along with the ongoing Bank's Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), and programs by
European Union, the African Development Bank and bilateral donors. The implementation of the reform
program remains largely satisfactory although capacity constraints, in particular, and weak
inter-ministerial coordination, have constrained the pace of implementation. The new cabinet appears to be
putting new energy into ensuring the coordination necessary for implementation of the reform program.
Within a week of its appointment, the new cabinet met in extraordinary sessions and cleared the backlog of
decisions that accumulated since 1999 and were causing delays in the program.
Regarding public expenditures, the Government protected the social sector spending targets in the budgets
for 1999. Following normal practice, the 1999 initial budget was revised and adopted by the National
Assembly in July 1999. As revenues were running below budget estimates, the revised budget cut all
non-social sector expenditures including defense. During the year, the Government closely monitored all
budget expenditures, with the issuance of a monthly flash report on Government budgetary commitments.
While the recurrent budget for 2000 increased by less than I percent over 1999, a significant shift in
budgetary resources to high priority areas was made, with increased budget allocations to education (15.8
percent), health (13.4 percent), women in development (125 percent), local government (25.7 percent), and
social affairs (12.5 percent).
Progress in Implementing the IDA Assistance Program
The program proposed in the CASPR was geared to fighting poverty through: (i) human resource
development; (ii) development of the rural economy; (iii) economic and institutional reforms in line with the
Government's strategy of private sector led growth and employment creation; and (iv) strengthening
partnerships. For FY00, the lending program comprises, the Agricultural and Rural Markets Development
project (approved in July 1999), the Human Resource Development project and the Rural Water project
(for which approval of the Board is being sought on June 6, 2000). The latter two projects build on the
decentralized institutional foundation laid by the ongoing Community Reintegration and Development
Project (CRDP) which emphasizes community participation. For FY01, the program consists of an
agricultural intensification and rural sector support project and a private sector development project. Both
projects are now under preparation. IDA is continuing to support the overall economic reform program
and institutional capacity building through the Economic Recovery Credit approved by the Board in March
1999, and the soon-to-close Private Sector Development project. IDA has worked closely with the
Government to build on the progress made over the last two years in the implementation of the projects in
the lending portfolio. All the ongoing projects are rated satisfactory in implementation performance and
development impact. Particular emphasis is put on improving financial management; a financial
management specialist is being recruited for the Country Office.
Poverty Reduction. In 1999, the Government, with the assistance of the UNDP, initiated work on its
poverty reduction strategy (PRS). This effort has produced a number of background papers on poverty,
food security, and the implications for budget reform. On February 21-22, the GOR organized a meeting
of donors that discussed among other things, the GOR's plan for the elaboration of its PRS. The plan was
well received by the donors. The joint Bank-IMF mission, with DFID, AfDB, and UNDP discussed with
the Government the details of the plan and implementation arrangements. The Cabinet has approved the
creation of a National Commission on Poverty Alleviation to oversee the PRS process. The Government
intends to produce an interim PRSP by November 2000.
Controlling HIV/AIDS: The lending program endorsed by the Board on June 29, 1999, remains largely the
appropriate response of the Bank to the challenges facing Rwanda. The CASPR flagged the gravity of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic and the problem of lack of capacity. The Government is committed to deal with the
- 73 -



HIV/AIDS crisis and has requested the assistance of the Bank. The Human Resources Development
project has an AIDS component; such components are planned for future sectoral projects. Early work has
begun in response to Government's request for support for a free-standing HIV/AIDS project; such a
project is necessary to raise the HIV/AIDS agenda to a higher level, build broad level support and provide
the policy and institutional framework for multi-sectoral interventions.
Capacity Building: The lack of capacity has become a major constraint in implementing the Government's
program. This problem needs to be addressed systematically in order to improve the prospects of continued
satisfactory implementation of the reform program and the emerging poverty reduction agenda. The
Country team continues to work through existing and new projects to support capacity building efforts in
related areas. The Human Resource Development Project will support capacity enhancement in the
Ministry of Education. The Government is implementing a reform of public administration that provides
the framework for the re-organization and capacity building in the ministries. The Bank is working with
the IMF, the UNDP, the AfDB and DFID, to support the process.
In the CASPR, the indicative program for FY02 and beyond (Annex B3), proposed a multi-sector project
to provide catalytic support for institution and capacity building and govemance in public administration.
This project will also enable IDA to support capacity building activities in key central ministries and
agencies: Finance and Plan, the Central Bank and Public Service. In light of the emerging acute capacity
constraints, preparation of the project, to begin in FYOI, will be accelerated with a view to seeking Board
approval early in FY02 or earlier.
Conclusion
The CASPR recognized that Rwanda continues to be a high-risk environment during this period of
transition from conflict to peace and development. The recent changes in the government may reflect
uncertainty associated with transitions but also demonstrate that the parties in the Government are
respecting rule-based systems of change. Rwanda has continued to make progress in economic
management and reform and the commitment of the Government to national reconciliation and economic
reform remains strong. The early indication is that the new government is determined to accelerate the
implementation of its social and economic development programs. Continued support from the
international community is essential for Rwanda to continue in the path of peaceful recovery and change.
.-74 -



2R.3S0'                                            2900'                                              2930'         |                                     38000'                                             330'
J                         UGANDA
RWANDA
DEM. REP                                                                                                                       AKAGERZA
|      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                 OF CONGO   v                                                           k,         /|
09 GO  900004      Lake
-®)    PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                                             L               9BoleMUKANCL 1'3                           NGARAMA                 N
F  I!NA              L                                                                                       PARa
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                           /           NATA NYA                             '                          \ Byumraba
M   MAIN ROADS                   <                     SJ         M  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, __1,,v    NKULI, ,.               .,       ,,,3           TWSG     ,    GITUZA / ,             
MAIN ROADS                                                              /       o       "'                     A390 9          "..OVs        CYN
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    a$G       I                           KAAG0  '                                   90M0     B.OYGA           0
FO S              3  KANAMA    GIC3  .       RUSHASHI 9H RM
LAKE  : KIVU                           j0                                  0090 ,N,                    909030,,
RUSSIRSOY/   ,     MASANO    ' IRO          '      9080                \',!GL                                       OAYGNZ0 G  Mh
.                 0R0NI.0"W
D;"     rANZANA 3                          ||                 \ " >'   f-\  v                                                                        :,                  )               B U R U N D BICO                                                                           |
00                     .~~~~~~MIEK.             R019903,9 
r77  t  Z A t v i.         OF   CO   NGO   Q                                                   u    NSHILI ilLM                       E    T     E    FSK0bS   1   15 2310             25033  3009W  35;  fO  VL5   50   th90oR0300s*rn   eD   
_UOOIR                    0 >,MOAMIQU  gMILS    5  0  5  2  2      30        TheAfr              panyjugmetO
ca   >>L1  |    _                                29°DDE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90 I                              009.0D      Gioc,o                          S013    00                                              030 geseJraoesmeto Ocpan                   sc    C
KIVU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/      'oHOv    '       993                       1003\         ENZ9oo9                                                  0000 I                   900
2'00'                                                                                                                   BUtINGAL,                 "I~~~~~~~OUNDA 00  I  9  9900 .                   Rgwor I\*   A                                        2.0
- 3033  cYloOoOo   009  900    N'I'UNGWE                         39  0000TE  . 3itar
OWA   .          '~~~~~~~~<   IKib   g
'   MBuWr EN3DOU                                                             RU       N
CONGO    Tsogsoy,ho  OCkAN  DEM.   R E P7                                                             .                                                                                                             This obop              by OW Mop W~GSOVU  NGO  TT("w
KIG7                                     I                                                --0.1  hi mo  w s 0pepr
~~                         ~,,                                   .      9900lZ0    ~                                0   5   90  15  20  25  30  33  40  45  50 MDeAGE    Rl         U iGEaDThe World Book
LAWI  9./I\A...JI"1'J\~~~~~~~~~~~~~.GATKWlOMT"                                                                                                                                                      h    ,oo,s  300  oooooio 
Oe  ZAMBIA                                                                                                                                           ______________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YSIND0
2~~30'                                                   IN293                            2933O                               NNooodrio



