Report No. PID8038
Project Name                     Rwanda-Human Resources (@)
Development Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Education Adjustment
Project ID                       RWPE45091
Borrower(s)                      Government of the Republic of Rwanda
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 1, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         January 15, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 15, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Country Background
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report Update for Rwanda (1999)
identifies the acute lack of human capacity and poor health standards as major
constraints to fighting poverty. The Government has put very high priority on
human development - education, training, knowledge development and all aspects
of health including sanitation, nutrition and population. In education and
related fields, the immediate priorities are to: (i) strengthen primary and
secondary education, with relevant curricula, instructional materials, trained
teachers and better resource management; and (ii) address the shortage of
skilled manpower by improving quality and relevance at tertiary levels, and
strengthening education in science, technology, management and vocational
training. The project supports the two CAS goals in education.
Sector Background
The average gross enrollment ratio at the primary education level dropped from
about 80% before the crisis to 70% in 1997 due to the burden on the system of
the return of large groups of people from neighboring Tanzania and Congo
(DRC). The quality of education provided by the public school system is a
further cause for concern. Between 1991 and 1996 the percentage of qualified
primary school teachers dropped from about 59% to 33%. Furthermore, only 28%
of the need in school books for teachers is covered. Textbooks for students
are also in short supply. Further problems within the education sector
include: (i) the inadequate numbers, qualifications and motivation of
teachers; (ii) the low and uneven distribution of intake capacity; (iii) the
inadequate information and planning systems; (iv) the shortage of students in
priority disciplines; (v) the high wastage rates (high repetition and dropout
rates) and the poor adaptation of curricula; and (vi) the highly centralized
system of management. Success and quality remain limited at all levels and all
sub-sectors.



2. Project Objectives
The main objective of this project is to build capacity in Rwanda thereby
making a significant contribution to achieving the development objective of
poverty reduction. This will be done through: (a) support in developing a
critical mass of human resources, and (b) assistance to elaborate and
implement a sustained program of education and skills to fill the void caused
by previous deficiencies and aggravated by the destruction of human capital
during the genocide of 1994 and the refugee movement that followed. Specific
actions under the project will be geared to: (i) consolidating and improving
the quality of primary education initiated under the First Education Sector
Project (Cr. 2227-RW), including improving readiness for primary education
through the development of early childhood care and development (ECCD)
programs; (ii) expanding and improving the quality of secondary education and
teacher training; (iii) selectively expanding and improving the quality of
tertiary education; and (iv) HIV/AIDS education and prevention. The focus will
be on improving access and the quality of secondary education and making it
sustainable financially and in terms of human resources. However, given the
links between secondary education and the other levels (providing teachers for
the primary level, and the need for replacing lost skills and having secondary
teachers trained at the higher level), as well as the need for a holistic and
balanced approach, both primary and tertiary education will also figure
prominently in this project.
3. Project Description
a Expansion and improvement of the quality of primary education: (i)
improving access; (ii) improving equity in prefectures; (iii) promoting
professional development and in-service training of teachers and supervisors;
(iv) strengthening system of monitoring and evaluation and assessment of
student learning; (v) strengthening applied pedagogical research; and (vi)
improving readiness for primary education through adequate early childhood
care & development (ECCD) programs.
a Expansion and improvement of the quality of secondary education: (i)
rehabilitating and building school infrastructure; (ii) reviewing and
developing curricula; (iii) providing textbooks and other pedagogical
materials; (iv) strengthening the examinations system and improving the
assessment of students' learning achievement; and (v) developing a critical
mass of qualified teachers.
a Capacity building and the selective expansion and improvement of the
quality of tertiary education
a Strengthening of education sector management capacity: (i)
strengthening planning, budgeting, financial control, human resources; and
(ii) improving management information system for primary, secondary, and
tertiary education.
a improving HIV/AIDS education and prevention. On all of these, there will
be a special focus on the gender dimension.
4. Project Financing
-2-



IDA will finance US$35.0 million. Counterpart funds of about US$2 million will
be expected from Rwanda. Parallel financing or co-financing from other donor
(notably DFID), is also expected.
5. Project Implementation
The project would be coordinated by a committee under the chairmanship of the
Ministry of Education. The Secretary General of the Ministry will be in charge
of the actual coordination of project activities. The management of each
component will be the responsibility of the relevant Department. Management of
the IDA Credit (including credit accounting coordination of procurement, and
management of disbursement procedures) and logistical support will be provided
by the current Project Office that has been implemented the First Education
Sector Project. The Project Office would be strengthened through the
quantitative and qualitative improvement (through training) of its local
professional and support staff, and the provision of equipment as necessary to
help them adequately carry out the work involved.
6. Project Sustainability
The success of this project will depend on its financial and pedagogical
sustainability The combination of chronic poverty, social tension and conflict
and poor health standards make for bleak human condition. Development of human
resources is urgent to sustain economic growth and reduce poverty. As regards
pedagogical sustainability, every school in the country should be involved in
a bottom-up school improvement initiative which could have a wide impact and
ensure local ownership and sustainability of attempts to improve quality and
reduce repetition rates. The capacity for evaluating student learning outcomes
should be developed because it is an important tool for monitoring pedagogical
sustainability.
Regarding financial sustainability, donor support in the education sector is
critical until a sustainable growth path has been established. In the long-
run, sustainability of the sector needs to be enhanced. Government commitment
and the involvement of communities and the private sector in financing and
implementation of the project, will enhance the project's sustainability in
the long-run.
7. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Completed projects under previous education Credits have focused on the
development of primary and secondary education Following early delays
attributable to the first education project complexity, poor accounting and
the unfamiliarity of the authorities with Bank procedures, in the end the
project was well-executed, and a commendable community effort was made in the
construction of school workshops. Lessons learned under the first education
project were incorporated in the design of the second and cumulatively in the
design of the third and the subsequent First Education Sector Project.
However, the participation of the communes in the construction of primary
schools was discontinued under the First Education Sector Project because of
the war. The proposed project should remobilize the active participation of
the all the communes.
Lessons learned from the implementation experience point to the need for
decision-makers and other stakeholders at the prefecture and commune levels to
- 3 -



feel ownership of the project and to develop mechanisms for effective
collaboration. In addition, there is a acute lack of coordination among all
donors. The design of the proposed has incorporated these lessons, as well as
those identified by supervision missions for the ongoing project.
8. Poverty Category
This operation falls under the category of programs of targeted intervention
(PTI) to reduce poverty and enhance human resource development.
9. Environmental Aspects
The project is not expected to have any negative impact on the environment.
There will be a very limited amount of civil works and these will be mainly
rehabilitation of existing structures. New schools to be constructed under the
project will be small and dispersed in rural areas. Construction methods would
avoid putting pressure on scarce natural resources. The project would explore
the use of hydraform block technology (based on pressure on a mixture of lots
of soil and very little cement) and not baked bricks in order to reduce the
need for firewood, avoiding any detrimental impact on the environment.
Meanwhile, the construction of new schools and the rehabilitation of existing
structures should result in improvements in sanitary conditions (portable
water in schools and building of latrines). The planting of sapling shade
trees and landscaping to prevent erosion as well as the building of latrines
and water points, will all have positive effects on the environment. The
project has been placed in category 'C'.
10. Program Objective Categories
Poverty reduction and human resource development: These are at the core of the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Rwanda as indicated in the CAS
discussed at the full Board on April 7, 1998 and recently updated. The thrust
of the proposed project is poverty reduction and human resource development.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Peter Ngomba
Human Resources 4
Africa Region
Telephone: (202) 473-4905
Fax:             (202) 473-8107
Ministry of Education
B.P. 622
Kigali, Rwanda
Tel:   (250) 83051
Fax:   (250) 82162
- 4 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 29, 1999.
- 5 -



