Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3367 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Human Resources Development Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 7, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3367 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 2000, between RWANDESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means: (i) a community represented by a Community 
Development Committee (as hereinafter defined) to which or for whose benefit a 
Grant (as hereinafter defined) is made, or proposed to be made; or (ii) a 
Community-Based Group (as hereinafter defined) to whom or for whose benefit a 
Sub-grant (as hereinafter defined) is made or proposed to be made;
(b)
“Commune” means a legal entity of the Borrower, established 
pursuant to the Law of November 23, 1963, as amended, on Communal Organization, 
to exercise limited jurisdiction over a designated area and population within 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
“Community-Based Group” means any group of two or more individuals 
residing in a Commune that organizes itself for the purpose of submitting and 
implementing a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.1 of the 
Project;
(d)
“Community Development Committee” or “CDC” means a committee made 
of members of the administration of a Commune (as hereinafter defined) and 
elected representatives of its civil society, established and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower as an autonomous entity with the required legal 
capacity and attributions to carry out all its activities regarding the 
implementation of the Project (as hereinafter defined);
(e)
 “Community Development Plan” means a plan prepared by a Community 
Development Committee containing a phased and costed program of development 
activities based on the needs expressed by the population of its Commune, 
including a list, description, budget and disbursement schedule of any planned 
Subprojects (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower 
through EPO (as hereinafter defined) to a Community Development Committee for 
the purpose of financing Sub-projects (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.1 of 
the Project;
(g)
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Borrower 
represented by EPO (as hereinafter defined) and a Community Development 
Committee setting forth the terms and conditions under which proceeds of the 
Credit shall be made available to a Community Development Committee for the 
purpose of financing Sub-projects (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.1 of the 
Project;
(h)
“MINECOFIN” means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Planning;
(i)
“MINEDUC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education;
(j)
“MINALOC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government and 
Social Affairs;
(k)
“Partner Agency” means a non-governmental organization or other 
public or private entity established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower, selected in accordance with the criteria specified in sub-paragraph 
II.1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement to assist: (i) Community Development 
Committees in the preparation and implementation of the education components of 
Community Development Plans; or (ii) Community-Based Groups in the preparation 
and implementation of Sub-projects (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.1 of 
the Project;
(l)
“EPO” means the Education Project Office, established within 
MINEDUC for the purposes of management, coordination and monitoring of the 
Page  3
Project in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraphs I.2 and I.3 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in 
sub-paragraph I.5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and comprising the policies, 
procedures and guidelines which shall be followed by the Borrower in the 
implementation of the Project;
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
and Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(o)
“Sub-grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by a 
Community Development Committee to a Community-Based Group for the purpose of 
financing a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.1 of the Project;
(p)
“Sub-project” means an education project proposed by a Community 
Development Committee or a Community-Based Group, within the scope defined in 
Part A.1 of the Project and financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit;
(q)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement;
(r)
“Community Advance Account” means a sub-account of the Special 
Account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(s)
“Eligible Categories” means the categories set forth in the table 
in Paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(t)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
services and amounts paid or to be paid under Grants, referred to in Section 
2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(u)
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be deposited into the 
Project Account (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 3.02 (b)(i) of this 
Agreement;
(v)
“Rwandese Francs” means the currency of the Borrower;
(w)
“Project Year” means the first period of twelve (12) months 
following the Effective Date of the Project (First Project Year) and each 
subsequent period of twelve months thereafter until the completion of the 
Project;
(x)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(y)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement 
signed on behalf of the Association on January 5, 2000 and on behalf of the 
Borrower on January 13, 2000;
(z)
“Oversight Committee” means the Project oversight committee to be 
established by the Borrower in accordance with sub-paragraph I.1 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and
(aa)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the 
United Nations.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty six million one hundred 
Page  4
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the 
benefit of a Beneficiary to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for Sub-projects to be financed under Part A.1 of the Project 
in respect of which withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause each CDC to:
(i)
open and maintain in Rwandese Francs, an advance account of 
the Special Account, denominated Community Advance Account , 
in a commercial bank or any other bank acceptable to the 
Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including, in the case of a commercial bank, 
appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment, to be used by such CDC exclusively for the 
purposes of financing works, goods and services required 
under the Project; and
(ii)
withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into each 
Community Advance Account the amount needed to cover 
Eligible Expenditures for a period not exceeding ninety 
days, and thereafter replenish said Advance Account in 
accordance with Paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date 
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
Page  5
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 2010 
and ending April 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on April 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project through MINEDUC with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and educational 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Page  6
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open an account in Rwandese Francs in a financial institution 
acceptable to the Association (the Project Account), and thereafter maintain 
said Project Account under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association 
until the completion of the Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount equivalent 
to $ 250,000 for the First Project Year; and (ii) thereafter replenish the 
Project Account every 12 months following the end of the First Project Year, by 
depositing therein an amount equivalent to $ 290,000, to finance the Borrower’s 
contribution to Project expenditures; and
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of 
the Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower as well as any entities 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section 
including those for the Special Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case no later than 
six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
Page  7
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial management 
system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, no later than eighteen 
(18) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
Page  8
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association no later than 45 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for 
such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Project implementation Manual, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial management 
system, satisfactory to the Association to ensure proper monitoring of the 
Project activities; and
(c)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited 
therein the Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O Box 158
Kigali
Rwandese Republic
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN-RWANDA
22687
MINFIN-RAW
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
Page  9
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Dr. Richard Sezibera
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi
Acting Regional Vice President, 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in SDR
Expenditures
Category
 Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   4,100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
(2)
Vehicles, Equipment and
   5,340,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 95%
of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services,
   3,480,000
100%
including audits
(4)
Training, workshops and
   4,780,000
100%
study tours
(5)
Incremental Operating
     700,000
80%
Costs
(6)
Grants under Part A 
   4,890,000
100% of 
amounts disbursed
of the Project
(7)
Refunding of the Project
     460,000
Amount due pursuant to
Preparation Advance
Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
   2,350,000
Page  10
TOTAL
  26,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, office administration and 
telecommunications, special account banking charges, vehicle operation, travel 
and supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s 
civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement, and (b) payments under Category (6) until and unless the Grant 
has been made in accordance with the procedures and terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in sub-paragraph II.1(f) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
and in more detail in the Project Implementation Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made for: (a) goods 
under contracts not exceeding $100,000; (b) civil works under contracts not 
exceeding $500,000 equivalent; (c) civil works for Subprojects, under contracts 
not exceeding $200,000; (d) consulting firms under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent;  and (c) individual consultants’ services under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in US dollars a special deposit 
account in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A 
to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from 
the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all 
further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B 
to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  11
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant 
to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the 
Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management 
Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and 
what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify 
the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account or an Advance Account was made for an expenditure which is 
not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such  evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of 
the Development Credit Agreement.
7.  
(a)
The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit 
into each Community Advance Account an advance for a period not exceeding ninety 
days to allow the relevant CDC to finance Subgrants for approved Subprojects and 
other Eligible Expenditures. Advances shall be made by the Borrower to a 
Community Development Committee upon receipt and approval by EPO of a quarterly 
work plan and funding requirement report based on the disbursement schedule 
submitted by the Community Development Committee as part of its Community 
Development Plan. Each subsequent advance shall be contingent upon satisfactory 
justification of the preceding period's advance with sufficient financial 
Page  12
reporting on a monthly basis to ensure that cost overruns or unexecuted projects 
are identified. 
(b)
Payments out of Community Advance Accounts shall only be made for 
Eligible Expenditures in respect of Categories (2) through (6) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
Any withdrawal from any Community Advance Account must be justified 
to the Borrower by the same documentation and other evidence regarding Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 6,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
for withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed 
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each 
such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more 
of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  13
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association 
into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into 
the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association 
has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its efforts to 
develop and implement a sustained program of capacity building through education 
and skills development in order to redress human resources deficiencies in its 
territory and develop a critical mass of trained human resources. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community-Based School Rehabilitation and Development Program
Carrying out of a community-driven school rehabilitation and development 
program through: (1) provision of Grants to CDCs to finance the construction, 
rehabilitation and equipment of school infrastructure under Subprojects 
identified and proposed by Community-Based Groups; (2) provision of specialized 
training, including in project cycle management, to CDCs, prefectoral and 
communal administrations; (3) provision of technical advisory services to CDCs 
in the preparation of the education components of Community Development Plans; 
and (4) carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities involving the 
Beneficiaries.
Part B:
School Quality Improvement Program
Carrying out of a program to raise the quality of education through:
1.
Teacher Training:
Improving the quality of teachers through:  (i) development and 
implementation of a program of in-service teacher training, including the 
provision of adequate pedagogical support to all teachers; (ii) identification 
of the training needs in the twelve Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs) and the 
Kigali Institute of Education (KIE); (iii) reorganizing the TTCs and providing 
Page  14
them with adequate staff and facilities through the rehabilitation of 
facilities, the provision of appropriate training to their staff and the 
acquisition of equipment and materials; and (iv) completion of the construction 
of a faculty of science at the KIE, provision of training to its staff and 
acquisition of laboratory equipment and other equipment and materials.
2.
Curriculum Development:
Strengthening the capacity of the Centre National de développement des 
programmes (CNDP) through: (i)  the provision of training to curriculum 
developers and the acquisition of equipment and materials; and (ii) the staffing 
and equipment of its administrative unit responsible for initiating, developing, 
producing, experimenting and ensuring the regular review and updating of 
curricula, textbooks, teachers’ guides and other educational materials.
3.
Textbooks and Pedagogical materials:
(i) Improving the availability of textbooks through the adaptation, 
development, production and distribution of an adequate number of textbooks in 
Kinyarwanda, French, English and other local languages, where appropriate; and 
(ii) building capacity in the areas of textbook writing, illustration, design 
and distribution through the provision of training to textbook writers, 
illustrators and designers and the organization of workshops and study visits 
abroad.
4.
Strengthening of the examinations/assessment system, through: (i) the 
drawing up of an organizational chart for the National Examination Council and 
the acquisition of equipment of materials for such council; and (ii) the 
construction of a national examination center, the acquisition of equipment and 
materials and the provision of training to its technical personnel.
5.
Improving the quality of teaching in science and technology through: (i) 
the provision of reference books for science teaching, the provision of training 
to science teachers, the acquisition of adequate scientific and technical 
equipment for schools, the construction and rehabilitation of school 
infrastructure, and the recruitment of expatriate science teachers.
Part C:
HIV/AIDS
Promoting behavior change required for effective HIV/AIDS prevention 
through:
1.
Sensitization
Promoting behavior change through:  (i) the organization of information 
and sensitization sessions and seminars for ministry officials, local 
authorities, teachers and students; (ii) integration of HIV/AIDS into the school 
curriculum and development of appropriate education materials; and (iii) and 
development and implementation of public information campaigns.
2.
Curriculum Development: Assessment of other countries’ experiences 
regarding the integration of HIV/AIDS into school curriculum and continuous 
development and adjustment of curriculum as necessary.
3.
Development of a strategy to ensure adequate dissemination of pedagogical 
materials to support the curriculum treatment of HIV/AIDS and preparation of 
appropriate materials to reach out-of-school youth.
4.
Strengthening AIDS program management through: (i) Expansion of MINEDUC’s 
management and technical capacity with respect to AIDS management through 
increased staffing, the provision of technical advisory services, the 
acquisition of equipment and materials, the provision of training to staff as 
well as the organization of study tours abroad on AIDS prevention programs; and 
(ii) carrying out of studies and consultations with donors and other 
stakeholders to assess and develop possible curative HIV/AIDS programs.
Page  15
5.
Counseling, Caring and testing
Improving access to counseling and AIDS testing to teachers and students 
through the provision of support to social services, non governmental 
organizations, local health facilities and community-based organizations.
Part D:
Capacity Building Program, Studies and Development of a Sector Wide 
Approach
1.
Strengthening the system of educational management and planning, through 
the provision of training to education sector staff and the carrying out of 
studies and surveys on teaching conditions.
2.
Strengthening of decentralization and the General Inspectorate, through 
the provision of training to inspectors, the acquisition of vehicles, equipment 
and materials for inspectors’ offices, and the construction and rehabilitation 
of office facilities.
3.
Focused training and staff development in key institutions: Provision of 
training and management capacity building within the education system and 
recruitment of adequate temporary staff to replace staff on training.
4.
Studies and Policy Development: Carrying out of a comprehensive studies 
program  and development of plans of action in specific areas, including, 
barriers to access study, cost and financing of higher education, training needs 
assessment, early childhood development policy and strategy, national plan for 
combating illiteracy.
Part E:
 Project Technical Support, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Management, supervision and coordination of Project activities through the 
acquisition of vehicles for EPO, and equipment, materials and supplies for both 
EPO and CDCs.
2.
Monitoring and evaluation of Project activities through the carrying out 
of: (i)  surveys and other studies to closely monitor and evaluate the Project’s 
output and outcome; and (ii) audits of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Part B.
Page  16
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, equipment and materials 
under Parts B, C and E of the Project shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and 
works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,030,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,350,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 300,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual.
5.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, motorcycles and equipment under Parts C and D of the Project 
estimated to cost more than $75,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $400,000 may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved 
by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for civil works estimated to cost 
Page  17
$500,000 or more; (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $ 100,000 or more; (iii) the first two contracts procured under national 
competitive bidding procedures; and (iv) the first two contracts for civil works 
for Sub-projects in two different Communes, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the 
modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services for staff 
training, project management and coordination under the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for project management and coordination under Part E of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the recruitment of replacement expatriate staff during 
training of national staff, development of teacher guides at all levels of 
education, adaptation and writing of textbooks, development of a textbook 
policy, production and dissemination of teaching materials on HIV/AIDS, staff 
training in various institutions, resource persons in seminars, workshops and 
awareness-raising campaigns, strengthening of decentralization and the general 
pedagogical inspection service under the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Page  18
Services for training on peace education under Part D of the Project, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for project management and coordination under Part E of the 
Project which meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms for training, studies and policy development activities estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 or individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
I.
Overall Project Oversight and Implementation 
1.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain at all times during the 
implementation of the Project an Oversight Committee to provide overall Project 
guidance and oversight during implementation, chaired by a senior representative 
of MINEDUC and composed of the heads of all relevant Departments and Units of 
MINEDUC, and representatives of MINECOFIN, MINALOC, the Borrower’s Ministries of 
Gender and Family, Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry, Health, Youth, Culture 
and Sports, selected Partner Agencies, the private sector and donors. The 
Oversight Committee shall meet no less than twice every year during the 
Page  19
implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain within MINEDUC an EPO headed by a national 
manager and staffed with personnel having experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association, including an architect, an engineer, a chief 
financial officer, a procurement specialist, an accountant, an education 
specialist and a social scientist.
3.
Under the direction of the national manager, EPO shall be responsible for 
the day-to-day management of the Project and coordination of the activities of 
the Project, in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual. EPO’s 
responsibilities shall include in particular: assisting each implementation unit 
in the preparation of annual work programs and budgets for the implementation of 
each project component or activity; coordinating all aspects of project 
implementation with the relevant Ministries of the Borrower; supervising and 
coordinating the actions of CDCs relating to the Project; ensuring that adequate 
Borrower counterpart funding is budgeted; evaluating the education components of 
Community Development Plans submitted by Community Development Committees; 
making disbursements of Grants to Community Development Committees under the 
Project and maintaining adequate financial records with respects to Grants 
financed by proceeds of the Credit; preparing and submitting replenishment 
requests and withdrawal applications to the Association; monitoring the 
implementation of the Project and submitting the required technical, financial 
and other reports to MINEDUC, MINALOC, MINECOFIN and to the Association; and 
initiating studies and capacity building efforts necessary for the achievement 
of the objectives of the Project and the monitoring of its implementation; 
carrying out all other duties as described in the Project Implementation Manual.
4.
The Borrower shall carry out the execution of Parts B and D of the Project 
through the appropriate institutional units of MINEDUC and to that end shall 
appoint and maintain in such units at all times during the execution of the 
Project adequate staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
5.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) 
apply the criteria, policies, procedures, guidelines and standard contracts set 
out in the Project Implementation Manual in the carrying out of the Project; and 
(ii) not amend or waive the Project Implementation Manual, or any provision 
thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on a bi-annual basis, beginning six months after 
the Effective Date, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
review with the Association, every semester, starting six months 
after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall request, 
the reports referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said reports and the Association’s views on the matter;
Page  20
(d)
no later than thirty six months after the Effective Date, carry out 
jointly with the Association a mid-term review. Such review shall assess the 
overall progress in the implementation of the Project; the result of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities; and progress on procurement, disbursement 
and other financial management issues;
(e)
furnish to the Association through MINEDUC biannual financial 
reports summarizing progress in the carrying out of the education components of 
Community Development Plans, including Sub-projects reviewed and approved and 
progress made in the implementation of Project-related activities and 
disbursement of funds; and
(f)
submit annual reports to the Association, beginning on the date 
twelve months after the Effective Date. Such reports shall address, as a 
minimum, evaluation of Sub-projects during the preceding twelve-month period, 
implementation and supervision of Project activities, procurement, rate of 
disbursement and any specific operational issues that have presented 
difficulties and for which guidance from the Oversight Committee has been 
sought.
II.
Specific Implementation Arrangements for Part A.1 of the Project
1.
Preparation, Evaluation and Approval of the Education Components of 
Community Development Plans 
(a)
EPO shall advertise publicly and request expressions of interest 
from potential Partner Agencies to assist Community Development Committees in 
the preparation of the education components of Community Development Plans.
(b)
Potential Partner Agencies shall be required to have: (i) proven 
experience in comparable community development activities in the territory of 
the Borrower and in participatory project design and implementation; (ii) proven 
technical expertise in their area of intervention; (iii) adequate financial and 
administrative capacity; and (iv) been registered and have the legal capacity to 
contract under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)
Following the selection of Partner Agencies in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the preceding subparagraph, EPO shall, whenever necessary, 
enter into contracts, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, with such Partner Agencies to assist Community 
Development Committees in the preparation and presentation of the education 
components of Community Development Plans.
(d)
The education component of a Community Development Plan shall 
contain: (i) a phased and costed program of education activities, based on the 
needs expressed by the Community Development Committee of the concerned Commune; 
and (ii) a detailed implementation plan including a list, description, budget 
and disbursement schedule of the planned Sub-projects and a description of the 
role that Beneficiaries will play in the implementation of the Sub-projects.
(e)
A Community Development Plan may be implemented by a Community 
Development Committee only after its has been examined and approved by MINALOC. 
If a Community Development Plan includes an education component, such component 
shall also be submitted to MINEDUC for review and approval prior to its final 
approval by MINALOG. In evaluating the education components of a Community 
Development Plan submitted by a Community Development Committee, MINEDUC shall 
verify whether said component of the Community Development Plan satisfies the 
following criteria: (i) is in conformity with the prefectoral development plan 
applicable to the Commune where the Community Development Committee is located; 
(ii) envisages education activities that reflect the needs and preferences of 
the populations of the concerned Commune and can be implemented in accordance 
with the time-table and disbursement schedule included in the plan; and (iii) 
allows for periodic adjustment in content, funding requirements and 
implementation arrangements.
Page  21
(f)
Following approval by MINEDUC and MINALOC of a Community 
Development Plan that includes an education component, EPO may, as 
representative of the Borrower, enter into a Grant Agreement with the concerned 
Community Development Committee for the financing of selected activities under 
such component. Prior to signing any Grant Agreement with a CDC, EPO shall 
ensure that such CDC has appointed an accountant with adequate qualifications 
and experience and established a satisfactory accounting system. The Grant 
Agreement shall reflect the terms and conditions specified in the model 
agreements attached to the Project Implementation Manual, which shall include 
the following:
(i)
the obligation of the Community Development Committee to 
carry out the implementation of the education component of 
the Community Development Plan with due diligence and 
efficiency, in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual as well as sound technical, financial, environmental 
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to 
reflect, in accordance with sound economic practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of every 
Sub-project financed out of the proceeds of the Grant;
(ii)
the obligation of the Community Development Committee to 
appoint and maintain at all times during the execution of 
the Project staff with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association including a 
community development agent who shall assist in the 
preparation, evaluation, and monitoring of Sub-projects; and 
an accountant who shall assist in all financial management 
issues.
(iii)
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured 
in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, and such goods, works and services shall be 
used exclusively for the purpose of carrying out of the 
Sub-projects;
(iv)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly 
with the Association, if the Association shall so request, 
the goods, works, sites, plants and construction included in 
any Sub-project, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(v)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the 
Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request 
regarding the administration, operation and financial 
condition of any Sub-project; and
(vi)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right 
of the Community Development Committee to use the proceeds 
of the Credit for a Sub-project upon the failure by the 
Community Development Committee to perform any of its 
obligations.
2.
Approval and Implementation of Sub-projects
(a)
The approval and implementation of Sub-projects shall be subject to 
the following procedures and terms and conditions:
(i)
Sub-projects under Part A.1 shall be prepared by a 
Community-Based Group, with the assistance of a Partner 
Agency if necessary, and submitted to the Community 
Development Committee for its evaluation in accordance with 
the criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual. 
In evaluating Sub-projects, the Community Development 
Committee shall in particular take into account the 
following criteria, as further detailed in the Project 
Page  22
Implementation Manual: the gross enrollment ratio in the 
Commune where the Sub-project is to be implemented; the 
average distance between the homes of school children 
residing in the Commune and the nearest primary school; and 
the existence in the relevant Commune of mechanisms to 
encourage parents’ and community participation in school 
management. 
(ii)
Before approving any Sub-project, the Community Development 
Committee shall submit it to EPO for review. In reviewing 
Sub-projects, EPO shall ensure that they are consistent with 
the objectives of the relevant Community Development Plan 
and have been appraised in accordance with the criteria, 
policies and procedures set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
(iii)
The decision approving the Sub-project shall set forth the 
rights and obligations of the Community Development 
Committee and the Beneficiary of a Sub-grant, in particular, 
the obligation of the Beneficiary of such Sub-grant to 
contribute, in cash or in kind, at least 10% of the total 
cost of the Sub-project, to the financing of the Subproject 
and to carry out the implementation of the Sub-project with 
due diligence and efficiency, the right of the Community 
Development Committee and EPO to monitor and inspect the 
implementation of the Sub-project by the Beneficiary and its 
Partner Agency and the obligation of the CDC to disburse the 
proceeds of the Subgrant with due diligence and efficiency.
(b)
A Community Development Committee may contract a Partner Agency to 
assist a Beneficiary of a Sub-grant, in the preparation and implementation of a 
Sub-project. Such contract shall provide, inter alia, for: (i) specific terms of 
reference for the Partner Agency based on the requirements of the Sub-project; 
(ii) the terms of payments by the Community Development Committee to the Partner 
Agency, which shall be based on a predetermined payment schedule that shall be 
part of every Sub-project proposal; and (iii) the right of the Community 
Development Committee to withhold payments to the Partner Agency and suspend or 
terminate the activities under the Sub-project if the Partner Agency fails to 
comply with its obligations under the contract. Payments for expenditures 
incurred for Sub-projects shall be effected by the Community Development 
Committee on behalf of Beneficiaries of Sub-grants in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, unless the 
Beneficiaries have an account at a local bank satisfactory to the Community 
Development Committee and EPO as well as adequate financial management 
capabilities.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that all procurement and contracting of 
consultants’ services to be undertaken by Community Development Committees and 
Partner Agencies for specific Sub-projects are carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the Project Implementation 
Manual.
(d)
The Borrower shall closely monitor the performance of Community 
Development Committees and Partner Agencies and, to that end, shall require 
adequate reports from them and shall, through EPO, undertake visits to the CDCs 
and to the local offices of the Partner Agencies.
III.
Implementation Arrangements for Part C: HIV/AIDS
The Borrower shall implement Part C through the AIDS unit within the 
Department of Planning of MINEDUC. This unit shall coordinate as necessary with 
other Departments within MINEDUC, with the Ministry of Health and any other 
agencies of the Borrower dealing with AIDS/HIV issues to ensure proper execution 
of Part C of the Project
Page  23
