               Argentina-ProvincialRoadsProject(Loan4093-AR)
               ProposedAmendmentto the LoanAgreement 4093-AR


 1. This proposal seeks the ExecutiveDirectors' approval of an amendment of the
 Loan Agreement for the Argentina ProvincialRoads Project (Loan 4093-AR). The
 purpose i s to reassignUS$12 million of project cost savings to finance priority flood
 rehabilitation works intwo medium cities of the Province of Entre Rios which were
 originally identified as part of the on-goingFloodProtection Loan (4117-AR), and
 US$ 1.25 million to finance technical assistance studies for project preparation on
 flood protectionand provincial roads. This reallocation of project cost savings within
 the Provincial Roads Project (Loan 4093-AR) for purposes of financing needs under
 the FloodProtection Project and preparingthe new projects i s part of the measure
 proposed in the CAS to ensure effective portfolio management.

     PARTI:BACKGROUNDONARGENTINA FLOODPROTECTION
                            PROJECT (LOAN4117-AR)

2.   The Argentina FloodprotectionProject (Loan 4117-AR) was approved by the
Boardof Directors on April 17, 1997 and the Loan Agreement became effective on
October 21, 1997. The total cost of the project was US$488 million, of which US$200
million was financed by the Bank and US$120 millionby Japan Bank for International
Cooperation (JBIC.) The objective of the Projecti s to improve the security of persons
and economic assets inthe flood-prone areas. Key defense facilities, infrastructure
and housing are being developed to reduce the vulnerability and future losses linked to
floods. National andprovincial institutions are being strengthened with systems for
dealing with future floods. The specific objectives are to enhance provincial capacity
to deal with periodic flooding by upgradingtheir flood preparedness and mitigation
systems, as well as strengthening coordinationwithin the water basin. The aim i s to
provide technically sound and cost-effective flood protectioncoverage to the most
important economic areas, and to develop satisfactory institutional mechanisms to
sustainthem. The closingdate, originally June 30,2002 was extended to June 30,
2004 to allow completionof key civil works, and the Government requested a new
extension of the closing date to December 31,2005, which was granted inMarch
2004.

3.   As with many projects inthe Argentina portfolio, the project stalled duringthe
years 2001 and 2002, due to the crisis. Funds were frozen, and lack of counterpart
financing affected implementation. Because of the devaluation, existing civil work
contracts had to be renegotiated. The crisis impactedseverely the implementation of
the FloodProtectionProject. However, after substantial efforts, particularly, through
the renegotiation of the contracts for civil works andimprovedbudgetary funding, the
project i s performing satisfactorily.

                                         ;2-


4.   The FloodProtectionProject has seen its original financing plan modifiedintwo
major respects: i)the reallocationof US$35 million based on project cost savings on
October 14,2002 to assist inthe financing of the Government's Social Emergency
Program; and ii)the subsequentcancellation on December 31,2002, of co-financing
by JBIC inthe amount of US$90million for the project.

5.   Projectreactivation.Most of the contracts of the FloodProtectionProject were
renegotiated by the first semester of 2003, and the provincialproject units have
reactivated all civil works. The project Closing Date was extended to December 2005
to provide the necessary framework for a program where some works require a
lengthy implementation time. Nevertheless, the reduction of financing and the 18-
month delay due to the crisis have prevented the timely implementation of the initial
program of structural measures. The GOAand the Bank agreed on a selection of
important sub-projects to be completed by the Closing Date, inaddition to the ones
where construction has already started. Two projects located in the Province of Entre
Rios, flood defense inConcepci6n del Uruguay, and the urban drainage in
Gualeguaychb, which are considered a highpriority, could not be included as part of
the Projectbecause of lack of funding. The two projects hadbeen selected at the time
of the preparation of the FloodProtection Project, and satisfactory economic analysis
and environmental assessment hadthen been completed. InMay 2004, the Bank
assessedthat the environmentaldata have not changed since the time of the
Environmental Impact Analysis, and agreedwith the Borrower to implement an
Environmental Management Plan duringthe construction time. Prior to the beginning
of the works. The central implementationunit will approve the Environmental
Management Plan acceptable to the Bank.

6. The flood defense inConcepcih del Uruguay amounts to US$7.5 million, and the
urban drainage inGualeguaychb to US$4.5 million and will protect populations of
24,000 and40,000 respectively, with a risk of flood considered as a major impediment
for economic development and social protection. Bothprojects have been adjudicated
following Bank procurement guidelines inthe expectation that they could eventually
be funded under Loan 4117-AR.




    PART11: BACKGROUNDONARGENTINA PROVINCIALROADS
                           PROJECT (LOAN4093-AR)

7. The Argentina Provincial Roads Project (Loan 4093-AR) was approved on
September 12, 1996, and became effective on November 18, 1997. The total cost of
the project was US$1,500 million, of which US$300 million was financed by the
Bank. The objective of the project i s to develop andimplement efficient provincial
road programs, and strengthen the institution's management capabilities. As project
objectives continuedto be achievable, and as the performance of the Borrower and
other executing agencies were satisfactory, the Bank - on the basis of an acceptable

Action Plan - agreed on May 9 2002 to give a favorable response to the Government
request, dated April.16 2002, to extend the Closing Date of the Loan from December
31,2002 to December 31,2004.

8.   The pace of implementationof the ProvincialRoads Project was substantially
improvedafter the March 2000 Mid-term review which helpeddesign and adopt
appropriate solutions aimed at resolving the issue of the disbursement lag inthe
Project. An increase inthe disbursement percentage for civil works from 50% to 75%
was approved by the Bank, with areasonable reduction in scope of the rehabilitation
and paving programtargets, for the subprojects of all participating provinces. In
addition, the integrationin the Project of new eligible provinces would become easier
as the cost sharing arrangement hadbeen improved. At that time, it was also clear that
while the physical component of the Project hadbeen slow, considerable
achievements had already been made on the reform and institutional dimension of the
Project that would have far-reaching positive impacts. The Project objectives didnot
need to be revised.

9. Remarkable improvements were notedinproject implementationafter the mid-
term review. The revisedtargets agreedat that time have been largely met. Since
December 2000, the Project shows satisfactory implementation and development
objectives ratings and the prospect remained good for the Project to be completed
within the original Closing Date of December 31, 2002 until the economic downturn
hitthe country inDecember 2001. As Projectobjectives continuedto be achievable,
and as the performance of the Borrower and other executing agencies were
satisfactory, the Bank - on the basis of an acceptable Action Plan - agreed on May 9,
2002, to give a favorable responseto the Government request to extend the Closing
Date of the Loan from December 31,2002 to December 31,2004.

10. As of March 2003, all the contracts of the Provincial Roads Project havebeen
reactivated and a substantial package of new contracts have been awarded and are
scheduled to be completed by the new Closing Date of December 31,2004. The
Projecti s back on track after dealing with the crisis that seriously affected project
implementation during 2001 and 2002. Considering, however, that bidprices
throughout project implementationhave been generally lower than expected and due
to the substantial devaluation in2002, it became clear that the entirety of the US$300
millionBank Loan would not be used and that some funds, inthe order of US$40-50
million would have to be eventually cancelled from the Loan. With that inmind, the
Bank agreed in October 2002 to restructure the Project andreassign US$18 million of
cost savings from the Provincial Roads Project Loan to finance activities in support of
the social emergency program. On October 14,2002, the Board approved said
restructuring,

11.A recent supervision missioncarried out inMarch 2004 confirmedthat with the
execution of on-going andrecently awarded works contracts the development
objectives of the Project including the physical and institutional components will be
fully met by the Closing Date of December 31,2004, with an undisbursed amount of

                                          ,4-


about US$20million. These cost savings that have been identified under this Project,
are proposedto be reallocated to finance priority investments requiring additional
funding under the FloodProtection Project (Loan 4117-AR).

12. Inaddition, an amount of US$1,250,000 will be proposed to be reallocated inLoan
4093-AR for the purpose of preparing: (a) a future flood protection and urban drainage
project; and (b) a follow-up project for ProvincialRoads as contemplated under the
Country Assistance Strategy.


                     PARTI11 PROPOSEDAMENDMENT
                                 -
13. The proposed amendment to Loan 4093-AR would represent an exception to the
provisions of OP 13.25 (Use of Project Cost Savings) which indicatethat cost savings
inloans should normally be canceledunless:, (a) implementationis satisfactory; (b)
the additional activities have highpriority and are consistent with the original project
objectives; (c) the activities have been fully appraised by Bank staff and are
economicallyjustified; and (d) financing the activities does not violate the country
financing parameters on cost sharing. We are seelung the Board's approval for the
proposed amendment, which goes beyondthe original project objectives, because of
the importance andurgency of the tasks to be carriedout in support of the Flood
ProtectionProgram. The proposed amendment would direct the use of US$13.25
million to Government priorities interms of flood defense activities and technical
assistance studies for project preparation. This proposal i s inline with the measures
identifiedunder the CAS for Argentina to ensure the effectiveness of portfolio
management.

14. Implementation. Implementationfor both projects i s considered satisfactory.
The implementation of the flood prevention works and studies for the preparation of a
flood project will be through the same project coordinatingunit (SUCCE) of Loan
4117-AR, while the implementation of studies for the preparation of the Second
Provincial Roads Project will be through the existing project coordinatingunit (CEU)
of Loan 4093-AR.

15. These two activities are considered of highpriority for the Province of Entre Rios,
and were selected duringproject preparation as major flood defense for the two cities.
They hadthen been fully appraised with economic and environmental analysis at the
time of project preparation andthe Bank team have assessedthe documentation in
May, 2004 and found it acceptable. The works would be financed by the loan at a
ratio of 72% (foreign and local expenditures), which remains below the country
financing parameters on cost sharing since the loan amount, of US$300million,
represents 20% of project cost of US$1,500 million.

16. ProposedObjectivesand DisbursementCategories.The proposed additional
objectives to Loan 4093-AR are: (a) to improve the physical flood protection
capabilities within the Province of Entre Rios; and (b) to develop new programs

                                         i 5-


through preparation of (i)future FloodPrevention and UrbanDrainageProject, and
                             a
 (ii)SecondProvincialRoadsProject. ThesewillbereflectedinaDisbursement
     a
Category (8) for Civil Works, to finance US$12 million, which would include (a) the
defense works in Concepci6n del Uruguay, and (b) the urban drainage works inthe
North Zone of Gualeguaychb. The works would be financed by the loan at 72%
 (foreign and local expenditures). The DisbursementCategory for consultant's services
 (3) would include technical assistance for (a) US$500,000 for the preparation of the
FloodPrevention and Urban Drainage Project; and (b) US$750,000 for the preparation
of the Second Provincial Roads Project..

 17. FinancialManagement. The coordinationunit of the ProvincialRoads Project
will be responsible for the financial arrangements of the provincial roadfeasibility
study in a format acceptable to the Bank. The UCPFE- SUCCE (Unidad de
Coordinacibnpara 10s Proyectos con Financiamiento Extranjero - Sub-Unidad
Central de Coordinacibnpara Emergenciasof the Ministerio de Planifcacibn
Federal, Inversibn Pliblica y Sewicios), will be incharge of the financial
arrangements of the flood works and studies for the preparation of a flood project.
The coordinationunit of the Provincial Roads Project shall be responsible for
collecting appropriate information from UCPFE-SUCCE and the furnishingof audited
financial statements of the Provincial Roads Project (Loan 4093-AR) to the Bank for
each fiscal year as soon as available, but not later than six months after end of each
year.

18. Justificationfor Extensionof ClosingDate.The two flood defense works of the
EntreRios province have been studied andprocurement i s advanced. The signing of
the respective contracts has beenpostponeduntilthe proposed amendment is
approved. Works could then start in a short period of time. The completion time for
each of them i s of about 18 months. The project feasibility studies also require an
implementationschedule of 12to 14 months, starting after the consultant selection
process. It i s therefore sought to extendthe ClosingDate for 12months to December
31,2005. The existing action plan has been amended to include the new activities,
and has been presented to the Bank. Said plan i s acceptable to the Bank.

19. The audit reports required under the Loan Agreement are up to date and were
acceptable to the Bank.

20. A copy of the draft Letter of Amendment to the Borrower i s available upon
request.

