                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                           Report No:ICR0000137




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-40930 IBRD-4093A IBRD-4093S)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                              ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                      FOR A

                          PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT




                                  January 19, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         ( Exchange Rate Effective 11/20/2006 )
                              Currency Unit = Pesos
                                  Pesos 1.00 = US$ 0.32362
                                    US$ 1.00 = Pesos 3.09


                                       Fiscal Year
                                          2007




                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADT   Average Daily Traffic
CAI   Core Accountability Implementation Completion Report
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CD    Country Director
CEU   Central Executing Unit ( Unidad Ejecutora Central)
CREMA Contrato de Recuperación y Mantenimiento ( Rehabilitation and Maintenance Contract)
CVF   Federal Roads Council ( Consejo de Vialidad Federal)
DPV   Dirección Provincial de Vialidad ( Provincial Highway Directorate)
GOA   Government of Argentina
GOPs  Provincial Governments
HDM   Highway Design and Maintenance Model
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IDB   Interamerican Development Bank
IERR  Internal Economic Rate of Return
IRI   International Roughness Index
ISR   Implementation Status Results and Report
MTR  Mid-term Review
NBF  No Bank Financed
NPV  Net Present Value
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PDP   Provincial Development Project
PRP  Provincial Road Project
PSR  Project Status Report
RMRSP Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Sector Project
     Subsecretaria de Asistencia a las Provincias ( Sub-Secretariat for Assistance to the
SAP
     Provinces)
SAR   Staff Appraisal Report
SAREB Secretaria de Asistencia a la Reforma Económica de las Provincias
SLA  Subsidiary Loans Agreements

TL  Task Leader
TT  Task Team




                     Vice President: Pamela Cox

                   Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg

                    Sector Manager: Jose Luis Irigoyen

                Project Team Leader: Juan Gaviria

                                                     Argentina
                                             AR PROV ROADS




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 21
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 24
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 25
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 28
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 31
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 32
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 34
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 36
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 39
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 42
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 43
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 44
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 45
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 49
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 50
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 51

1. Basic Information
Country:                Argentina             Project Name:           AR PROV ROADS

Project ID:             P005980               L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-40930,IBRD-
                                                                      4093A,IBRD-4093S
ICR Date:               01/19/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               GOVT OF
                                                                      ARGENTINA
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 300.0M            Disbursed Amount:       USD 300.0M

Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies

Ministry of Fed. Planning
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 05/17/1994           Effectiveness:     11/18/1997        11/18/1997

Appraisal:         08/04/1995        Restructuring(s):                    10/27/2003
                                                                          07/16/2004
Approval:          09/12/1996        Mid-term Review:                     03/20/2000
                                     Closing:           12/31/2002        06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  Yes           Quality at Entry (QEA):         None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       1                  5
Sub-national government administration                                  2                  5
Roads and highways                                                     97                 90
                                                        Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development   Primary            Primary
Other financial and private sector development           Primary            Primary
Other social development                                 Secondary          Secondary
Environmental policies and institutions                  Secondary          Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                           At ICR          At Approval

Vice President:                                         Pamela Cox        Shahid Javed
                                                                          Burki

Country Director:                                       Axel van          Gobind T.
                                                        Trotsenburg       Nankani
Sector Manager:                                         Jose Luis Irigoyen Asif Faiz
Project Team Leader:                                    Juan Gaviria       Jacques L. Cellier
ICR Team Leader:                                        Juan Gaviria
ICR Primary Author:                                     Sergio S. Miquel




                                                 2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


6.1 Context at Appraisal

In 1997Argentina had emerged from the recession that had followed the regional
financial crisis of 1995. Real economic growth in 1996 was estimated at 4.4 percent;
there was no inflation, and starting in January 1997, fiscal revenues began to pick up.
The private sector responded positively to the new economic environment. Domestic
and international enterprises invested in privatized companies. The corporate sector
carried out restructuring. Unemployment remained at about 17 percent, aggravating the
poverty situation. Import growth, excluding factor services, of about 18 percent in 1996,
reflected the pick-up in economic activity. Expansion in exports continued at about 12
percent and a trade surplus was achieved for a second consecutive year. Nevertheless
the public sector deficit rose from 2.5 percent of GDP in 1995 to 2.9 percent in 1996
(mainly due to an increase in the federal deficit). Provincial public finances had
improved from a deficit of 1.2 percent of GDP in 1995 to 0.4 percent of GDP in 1996.
The improved provincial performance was the result of higher revenues, expenditure cuts
as their reform programs advanced, and the shifting of pension funding responsibilities of
eight provinces to the federal government.

The project context emerged as a result of experiences from two prior Bank Projects, and
the findings of a Bank Study: (a) implementation of the Provincial Development Project
­ PDP (Loan 3280-AR) demonstrated that to fully achieve their public sector reform and
economic programs, provinces needed to redefine their road expenditure strategies and
programs, and to improve the condition of the road networks under their jurisdiction;
(b) implementation of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Sector Project (RMRSP,
Loan 3611-AR) showed that the proposed decentralization of operational and
maintenance responsibilities for national roads to provincial governments highlighted the
need to improve the effectiveness of the road maintenance activities of the provincial
road departments (DPVs); and (c) a Bank study on Argentina Transport Privatization and
Regulation ( Report No. 14469-AR) concluded that the poor state of roads contributed to
slow economic growth in most provinces. The project was designed to address these
three issues. In order to insure that the project could effectively contribute to the public
sector reform programs of the provinces, the Government entrusted the preparation of the
project to the Ministry of the Interior's Secretariat for Assistance to Provincial Economic
Reform (SAREP), and its implementation to its successor, the Sub-secretariat for
Assistance to the Provinces (SAP). The Federal Road Council (CVF), which is formed
by the Administration of the 23 DPVs, actively participated in the design of the project.
Most provinces prepared subprojects. The resulting project context thus fulfilled long
standing aspirations at all national and provincial government levels and of the private
sector.



                                              3

The rationale for Bank involvement was to complement, coordinate and expand prior
Bank assistance in the Road Sector, by strengthening Provincial Governments
and fostering the decentralization process of government responsibilities. This was in
accordance with the macroeconomic policies supported by the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy ( CAS) for Argentina , discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on May 4,
1995 and updated in April 1996.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objectives of the Provincial Roads Project were to: a) develop and implement
efficient provincial road programs (PRPs) based on appropriate design and maintenance
standards, with a view to improving (i) the efficiency of resource use in the provinces'
road sectors and ( ii) the serviceability of the provincial road networks; b) reorganize
DPVs' (Direccion Provincial de Vialidad / Provincial Road Department) operations,
gradually transferring maintenance execution to private contractors or to local road
consortia, strengthening DVPs' technical and management capabilities and establishing
clear goals and accountability for implementing their road programs, including
decentralized responsibilities for the national road network; and c) strengthen DPVs'
environmental management capabilities. This sector-type project, consists of similar
subprojects in participating provinces. Each subproject included the following
components: a) policy and institutional development, b) rehabilitation and maintenance,
c) upgrading and new construction, d) studies, and e) project management.

The original project development objectives were maintained even though through the
restructuring described below there were additional components added to the project.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

Significant changes in project scope were made in 2002, to adjust the project and reflect
the impacts of the severe economic crisis (see paras. 6.6 and 6.7). Moreover, in 2004, the
project scope was again modified to finance priority flood protection investments under
Loan 4117-AR. After these two modifications of project scope, the PDO's were
expanded as follows: (a) to develop and implement Road Programs in each eligible
Province in order to improve: (i) the efficiency of the use of resources in the road sector;
and (ii) the serviceability of the road network; (b) to reorganize the Provincial Road
Department (DPV) in each participating province strengthening their technical,
environmental and management capacity in order to, inter alia, implement Road
Programs; (c) to improve maternal and child health through delivery of quality services,
and to strengthen disease surveillance and control activities, all for purposes of reducing
the acute risk of disease in the Borrower's territory [these components were added
through an amendment approved by the Board of Directors on October 16, 2002]; and (d)
to improve the physical and institutional flood protection capabilities within the
Participating Provinces through (i) strengthening of city flood defense to reduce
vulnerability, and (ii) preparation of future flood prevention and urban drainage program


                                               4

[these components were added through an amendment approved by the Board of
Directors on July 16, 2004].

At the time of the MTR in March 2000, the key physical target indicators were modified
to reflect the actual available financing for the rehabilitation and upgrading components
(see detailed description of modified key indicators in section 8.2). There were
no specific changes made to the key performance indicators (other than physical targets)
of the original project components as a result of the restructurings in 2002 and 2004
described above, and no key indicators were added for the new components.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The project was designed to achieve the following benefits: (a) avoid further depletion of
valuable capital in provincial roads; (b) enhance accountability and more efficient use of public
resources in the road sub-sector; (c) prevent or mitigate adverse environmental impacts of road
construction and maintenance; (d) substantially reduce the cost of transport on provincial roads;
and (e) support the resumption of growth in agriculture, industry and export. Benefits (a), (b) and
(c) would mainly benefit the primary target group, the DPVs of Participating Provinces; while
(c), (d) and (e) would have a substantial beneficiary impact on the secondary group, the entire
Argentine economy and population.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

This sector-type project, consisted of similar subprojects in participating provinces. Each
subproject included five components partially financed by the Bank Loan in the amount
of US$300 million, and one routine maintenance component financed entirely by the
respective province (as detailed in 8.2 the aggregate costs described below were based on
assumptions of co-financing that did not materialize). The aggregate project cost of
US$1.5 billion, included the following components:

(a)       Policy and Institutional Development Component (US$20 million, or 1.3% of
total project cost), for technical assistance equipment, software and training, including:
(i) prepare and monitor the provinces' annual road expenditures and funding programs,
including efficient maintenance, rehabilitation, upgrading and new construction
programs, in accordance with agreed policies, criteria and methodologies, thereby
strengthening the planning capacity of the DPVs; (ii) re-assess DPV maintenance
strategy with a view to gradually transfer maintenance activities to the private sector or to
local road consortia, re-design or improve DPV processes, methods and techniques for
planning, programming and budgeting, engineering, economic and environmental
assessment, works procurement, contract management, accounting and
auditing, program monitoring, and re-dimension DPV staff as appropriate; and (iii)
strengthen DPV capability to implement appropriate environmental and resettlement
standards and guidelines, including preparation of related assessments and supervision of
necessary prevention and mitigation measures;


                                                 5

(b)      Rehabilitation and Resurfacing Component (US$372 million, or 24.8% of total
project cost), consisting of road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance (mainly
resurfacing) components of the participating provinces' road programs;
(c)      Upgrading and Construction Component (US$261 million, or 17.4% of total
project cost), consisting of highest-priority upgrading, paving and new construction
investments, subject to the province's satisfactory performance in road maintenance;
(d)      Routine Maintenance Component (US$670 million, or 44.7% of total project
cost), corresponding to routine maintenance activities of the road network of the
participating provinces, not included in Bank financing, because of the recurrent nature
of these expenditures;
(e)      Studies Component (US$30 million, or 2.0% of total project cost), comprising
the engineering designs, environmental assessments, and works supervision services for
the above civil works components;
(f)      Project Management Component (US$5 million, or 0.3%), consisting of
technical assistance to the Central Executing Unit, CEU, for coordinating and monitoring
the execution of the project.

The estimated aggregate cost included Physical Contingencies over the base cost in the
amount of US$90 million, or 6.0% of total project cost, and Price Contingencies over
the base cost plus physical contingencies in the amount of US$52 million, or 3.5% of
total project cost.

6.6 Revised Components

On October 16, 2002, the Board approved the restructuring of five ongoing projects to
support the financing of an Emergency - Health Program under two projects, the
Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project (PROMIN) (Loan 4164-AR) and the
Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project (VIGIA) (Loan 4516-AR). This,
added two new components to this project:

(g)      Improvement of maternal and child health component. Financing of initiatives
under the PROMIN project for medical drugs and supplies and iron-fortified milk, under
Part C of the restructured Project: for an amount of US$ 9 million (the Bank financed
100 % of foreign expenditures and 83% of local expenditures), and

(h)      Strengthening disease surveillance and control activities. Financing of initiatives
under the VIGIA project for medical drugs and supplies, pesticides and other medical
goods, under Part D of the restructured Project: for an amount of US$9 million (the Bank
financed 100% of foreign expenditures and 83% of local expenditures).

The restructuring amendment approved by the Board of Directors on July 16, 2004
provided additional financing under one new component to complete priority flood
protection investments under the Flood Protection Project (Loan 4117-AR):

(i)      Flood protection component (US$12 million) to improve the physical and
institutional flood protection capabilities within the Participating Provinces through (i)



                                              6

strengthening of city flood defense to reduce vulnerability, and (g) preparation of future
flood prevention and urban drainage program.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Changes in implementation arrangements and funding allocations took place at different
times during project implementation to implementation delays as follows:

(a)      Increased Bank financing of civil works - project start-up originally planned for
end of 1996 was delayed 18 months until early 1998 because of several delays in
administrative reviews, prioritization and Government changes (see para. 7.2). The
participating Provinces started joining the project slowly, and by 2000 when the country
had undergone 2 years of sever recession, the Bank and the Government agreed to
an Amendment (dated June 1, 2000) to increase the percentage of Bank financing
for civil works under Category 1 (from 50% to 75%), and added a new Category 4 for
CREMA type contracts (with 75% Bank financing). This amendment reflected the desire
of the Client and the Bank to increase the likelihood that Provinces will join the program
under the difficult fiscal environment.

(b)      Extensions - during the project life several extensions of the closing date were
granted in agreement with the Client to reflect the changing
economic situation, additional scope and implementation delays including:

    · Extension of the Loan closing from 12/31/2000 to 12/31/2002 to
        address cumulative delays in project implementation due mainly to delays in
        start-up (para. 7.2) and the influence of external factors in a letter from Regional
        office dated May 20, 2002; and
    · Extensions of the Loan closing date from 12/31/04 to12/31/05 and from 12/31/05
        to 06/30/06 to address specific contract implementation delays and provide
        additional time for the implementation of the flood protection contracts.


7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The preparation and design of the project was consistent with the Bank's CAS
forArgentina , approved on May 4, 1995 , and updated in April 1996, namely, to assist in
consolidating the macroeconomic reforms and deepening their impact by strengthening
institutions, as well as providing for investment in infrastructure that had deteriorated due
to long periods of underinvestment. The project built on the achievements and lessons
of: (a) the Provincial Development and Provincial Reform Projects, which assisted the
provinces in carrying out fiscal and administrative reforms consistent with the national



                                                7

reform program; and (b) the RMRSP, which assisted the national government in
gradually transferring the maintenance portions of the national network to provinces, as
well as other projects in the health, education and agricultural sectors. The project
contributed to this strategy by helping provincial governments prepare efficient and
sustainable road expenditure programs, with adequate priorities and standards, and to
implement them efficiently, primarily through private contractors, thereby improving
resource use in the sector.

As stated in 6.1, preparation and later implementation of the project was entrusted to the
Ministry of the Interior, in particular to its Central Executing Unit (CEU) established for
the coordination and administration of the two prior Provincial Development Projects,
including its recently created Road Sub-Unit (RSU), with active participation of the
Federal Road Council formed by the Administration on the 23 DPVs.

A comprehensive Eligibility Criteria was established to ensure that participating
Provinces complied with standards necessary to achieve satisfactory outputs. To become
eligible, Provinces would have to maintain: (a) a current account surplus during the most
recent executed budget period; and (b) total debt service obligations less than 15% of
total current revenues. To finance new construction investments, provinces should in
addition: (c) maintain road network condition and maintenance budgets and expenditures
in line with agreed targets developed on the basis of an HDM analysis, and specified in
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs). Provinces not meeting the above criteria but
implementing the reforms in a manner satisfactory to the Bank would be eligible to
participate in all components of the project, except new construction investments.
Provinces not complying with either of the above conditions would be eligible for the
institutional component only. Detailed specifications were included in the Project
Operational Manual. The scope of the subprojects was expected to be commensurate
with the financial and technical capacity of the sub-borrowing provinces.

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the project identified the main project risks to be:
ineffective management of subprojects by DPV; inadequate coordination and monitoring
of the project by the CEU; and insufficient counterpart funds, in particular for
maintenance. It further analyzed the extensive organizational arrangements established,
on the basis of lessons from the prior PDP projects to warrant effective management of
the project and timely presentation to the Bank of all documentation requiring its review
and comments; concluding that they constituted satisfactory mitigation measures for
project risks. This Project was not selected for Quality of Entry or Quality of Supervision
exercises.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

External factors Affecting Implementation. The project was affected by several
concurrent external factors and shocks which resulted in delays in project
implementation. The key factors considered are:



                                               8

(a)      Every Province has an autonomous administrative and legal authorizing
environment. Within such framework each Province fulfilled the prior actions required
in each case in order to become eligible for participation in the Project. This required a
significant amount of time and follow-up by the federal and provincial authorities
involved in project preparation and execution. There were also instances when the legal
requirements between the provincial and federal authorities progressed at different
speeds or were at odds because of political differences unrelated to the project. As a
result project effectiveness was delayed and the project started slowly. Nevertheless,
the CEU progressively acquired significant expertise in approaches to ameliorate, or even
overcome the administrative hurdles to get the project approved and started within each
participating Province.
(b)      An extended economic recession (between 1998 and m2001) culminated in a
severe economic and social crisis in December 2001 and a devaluation in January 2002.
This crisis forced the succession of Governments to severely reduce public spending
and budgetary allocations to all investment projects, slowing all investment projects at
the Federal and provincial levels and accumulating arrears in payments to on-going
contracts. Project implementation was affected severely from early 1999 to end 2001,
and very severely in 2002. A significant devaluation of the local currency in January
2002 required over 10 months until the Government agreed on a Price Escalation
Formula to be inserted in all public works contracts including those under the project.
(c)      Several elections and the consequent changes in government, both at the national
and provincial level, resulted in frequent turnover of project management. This
caused delays in processing, and slowing down of decision making and bidding
processes. Since the appointment of a new Government in May 2003, the growth and
stability generally enjoyed by the country has been reflected in more predictable and
stable administration of the project.

Implementation Stages. Given the difficult external environment, the Bank and
Government had to closely supervise project implementation taking prompt remedial
action to address the key external factors described above. The main stages of
implementation were:

(a)     Delays in Project Start-up. Project start-up suffered delays of about 14
months due to several delays at different stages: seven months in signing because of
reorganization of the Argentine Government; and seven months in effectiveness because
of conflicting legal opinions between the Government of Argentina (GOA) and the
Provincial Governments (GOPs). Additionally, active participation of the two first
provinces,Santa Fe and Neuquen, started 6 months after Loan effectiveness, Cordoba ,
after 9 months, and Buenos Aires participation became legally binding only two years
after Loan effectiveness. Entre Rios and Corrientes joined the program with 3 and 4
years delay respectively. Six months after effectiveness, implementation progress was
far below target: disbursements had reached only about US$1 million against US$33
targeted; no rehabilitation and paving works had been contracted: and start up of both the
institutional strengthening program and the training was substantially delayed.
Consequently, in April 1998 a Bank mission designed a new plan of action setting
benchmarks for monitoring project progress. Implementation started to pick up, the



                                              9

provinces of Cordoba and Buenos Aires signed their SLAs by mid-year, execution of
rehabilitation and paving works started in Santa Fe and Neuquen, the preparation of new
work projects was accelerated, substantial progress was achieved in the contracting of
technical assistance services, and training activities were activated.

(b)      Asia Crisis, Lack of Counterpart Funds, and Increase in Pari Passu. The election
period in the second semester of 1999 affected progress of the physical component of the
project slowing down decision making and bidding processes. Buenos Aires province
failed to get the legal ratification of its Subsidiary Loan Agreement SLA. Moreover, the
strong effects of the Asian economic crisis forced GOA to curtail federal public spending
and reduce budgetary remittances to the provinces. Given the general economic
slowdown several provinces faced fiscal deficits including Santa Fe, the highest
disbursing province, and Buenos Aires, which had just joined the Program in August
1999, prompting both provinces to postpone all bidding and contract awards. Based on
these developments, the March 2000 MTR mission, discussed with the Borrower
modifications to the Loan Agreement, which were restructured in the First Loan
Amendment approved on June 1, 2000. This amendment stipulated: (i) adjustment of the
key performance indicators accounting for the changes in project implementation
conditions.; (ii) increase of Loan disbursement percentages for works from 50% to 75%;
(iii) creation of a new disbursement category for performance-based road rehabilitation
and maintenance (CREMA) contracts financed by reallocation of US$15 million from
Unallocated to this new category; and (iv) reduction of the project implementation
targets. In addition, the CEU and the Provinces committed to reviewing and improving
procurement practices, and to streamlining the sub-project approval process,
and preparing new action programs with specified benchmarks for the next two and a
half years. Implementation of the project improved substantially, and disbursements
reached the newly agreed targets.

(c)      2002 Economic Crisis and Restructuring to Address Social Emergency. The
auspicious re-launching of the project in 2001 was soon affected by the external
environment. The President resigned abruptly in December 2001 and the economic crisis
deepened. A succession of 3 brief governments was followed by the appointment of an
interim administration in power between January 2001 and May 2003, and a devaluation
of the local currency. The political and economic turmoil affected every aspect of life in
Argentina. Counterpart funding allocations for the PRP were substantially
reduced. Payment arrears to the contractors accumulated. Moreover, the significant
devaluation of the Argentine Peso in January 2002 and emergency legislation, required
an agreement between Government and the contracting industry to incorporate a price re-
determination clause in all contracts a process that took well over a year and a half to be
implemented. All civil work contracts were stopped by mid 2002. The Bank granted a
2-year extension of the Loan closing date to December 31, 2004 to consider the
deteriorated environment and the fact that these contracts were prioritized by GOA and
GOPs. In order to address the effects of the crisis, the Board approved on October 16,
2002 the restructuring of 5 projects in Argentina, including this operation to
support social emergency programs included in the PROMIN II and VIGIA projects (see
section 6.6). As a result of this amendment, 2 new categories were added to finance



                                               10

the procurement and distribution of medicines, milk and pesticides, allocating US$9
million to new Categories C and D.

(d)      Predictable Management and Funding and Full Scale Implementation. In May
2003 a new elected Government came to power. By June 2003, the execution of 32
projects had been reactivated and compliance with development objectives remained
satisfactory. The devaluation in January 2002 also brought about difficulties with the
payment in foreign currency to the Argentine-Spanish joint venture in charge of
the institutional strengthening program leading to the suspension of its services, which so
far had been highly satisfactory . A protracted negotiation on this subject extended for
almost three years. During this period, the CEU and the provinces managed to use
the existing documents and manuals to continue satisfactory implementation of the
program. A March 2004 mission confirmed that with the execution of ongoing and
recently awarded works contracts, the development objectives of the project, including
the physical and institutional components, were progressing in a satisfactory manner,
with cost savings of about US$20 million, due to the reduction of bid prices after the
substantial devaluation in 2002. These cost savings were reallocated to finance priority
investments under the Flood Protection Project (Loan 4117-AR) which required
additional financing; an amendment was approved by the Board on July 2004 (see details
in para. 6.6).

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The Project Monitoring Indicators established at the time of project
appraisal, and confirmed at negotiations, were selected to facilitate monitoring of the
different components of the project as a whole, and of each participating province in
particular, and to monitor and assess achievement of project objectives and outcomes.
They were defined on the assumption that 8 provinces would join the program during the
first two years of project implementation. Later developments proved this too
optimistic because of the effectiveness delay, slow start-up, and repeated delays
in negotiations to secure participation of the provinces. Overall the indicators themselves
were useful but the physical targets had to be revised as a consequence of the lower than
anticipated total financing available for the program (see details in 8.2).

M&E implementation. After some initial difficulties, data was adequately collected by
the provinces and recorded by CEU. However, reporting to the Bank was mixed.
Compliance with DOs and output targets were not systematically recorded in PSRs until
Seq.14 dated 03/05/01, after they had been adjusted in mid 2000. From then on their
monitoring was performed regularly, albeit affected by minor shortcomings, induced
mainly by: changes of scope or description of the indicators, use of inadequate
measuring units, infrequent reporting or assessment and non-inclusion of a few of them.
These shortcomings are analyzed in detail in 8.2.

M&E utilization. The over-dimensioned original physical targets for annual or
cumulative compliance could not be used properly during the first three years, because of
implementation delays. This was exacerbated by the increase of the Loan disbursement



                                              11

rate for civil works from 50% to 75% approved 06/01/2000, which resulted in a
proportional reduction of the amount of rehabilitation and upgrading works which could
be financed under the project. The MTR mission recommended more realistic targets,
which were agreed during the first amendment to the Loan Agreement. The physical
indicators subsequently proved a useful tool to assess implementation progress,
achievement of objectives, decision making and resource allocation.

The established regular use of M&E arrangements in the CEU and in the participating
provinces will provide a satisfactory basis for the implementation of the ongoing
Provincial Roads Infrastructure Project (Loan 7301-AR). Efforts are being devoted to
improving the definition and reporting of indicators in the new operation.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Financial management arrangements of the Central Unit and each of the participating
Provinces were found to be satisfactory during project implementation and at completion
as part of the fiduciary assessment for the follow-on operation Argentina Provincial Road
Infrastructure project (Loan 7301-AR) which has become effective on September 2006.
Regarding safeguards, the project involved the successful development of environmental
and social assessment and management capabilities in each of the participating
Provinces. Throughout project implementation the Project ensured the socio-
environmental sustainability of the project funded activities and its compliance with
provincial environmental regulations and Bank's safeguard policies.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

A successor project was approved by the Board in 2005 and declared effective in
September 2006. The Argentina Provincial Road Infrastructure project includes bank
financing in the amount of US$150 million to continue supporting effective provincial
road management and an increased involvement of private sector participation in the
maintenance management of priority provincial road networks, through the
implementation of CREMA type contracts. This follow-up operation will help sustain the
reforms and institutional capacity within the DPVs. Moreover, the Board approved last
June a Provincial Road Infrastructure project in the Province of Cordoba (US$75
million) with complementary objectives to improve the reliability of road sector assets
and the efficiency of their management in this Province.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Objectives, Design and Implementation of this project merit a rating of high overall



                                                12

relevance.      Its objectives and design are consistent with Argentina 's current
development priorities, defined in the recent Bank document "Bank's Road Sector
Strategy", which stresses that the role of the transport sector in Argentina 's economy is
of paramount relevance, enabling regional integration and facilitating access to
international markets. It further states that the role of the Bank in the road sector stems
from the acknowledgement that the improvement of infrastructure assets is key to sustain
economic growth and to mitigate the severity of poverty, both of which are overarching
objectives of the CAS. This project constituted a pioneering effort to expand progress
previously achieved at the national/federal level to the provincial level, thus
consolidating the serviceability of a major part of the provincial road network.

The project made significant progress in road administration and development in all six
participating Provinces, and contributed to progress in other provinces. In addition, the
Bank's implementation assistance proved responsive to changing prioritization of needs
by restructuring the project to transfer financial support to urgent public health and
emergency programs, and to the flood defenses program. The relevance of the project is
further illustrated by the fact that lessons learned during its implementation were taken
into account for the preparation of the "Provincial Road Infrastructure Project" (Loan
7301-AR), of the road sector part of the "Buenos Aires Sustainable Infrastructure
Development Program" (Loan 7268-AR), and of two similar projects being prepared for
the provinces of Cordoba and Santa Fe.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

In order to adequately assess the achievement of the project's objectives, this review
considered the detrimental effect of the country's external environment throughout
project implementation, as described in 7.2. The various external shocks (recession
followed by crisis), the depth of the crisis and its prolonged nature were overcome as a
result of an extraordinary commitment of the GOA and GOPs to maintain the project as a
high priority, and particularly of the CEU and participating DPVs to continuously adjust
project implementation to reflect a fast changing environment. This assessment is based
on the achievement of PDOs as reported periodically in the PSRs and ISRs, and the key
outcome targets agreed at negotiations and the modified targets agreed during the Mid-
Term Review.

Achievement of the Development Objectives of the project is Satisfactory, as shown in
Annex 1, based on the following:

(a)      The project succeeded in establishing Environmental Management Units in six
participating DPVs, which submitted to the Bank a total of 120 Environmental Impact
Analyses and 106 bidding documents containing environmental considerations. Eight
other provinces also succeeded in establishing well functioning environmental units. All
14 DPVs conducted intensive training programs for their environmental personnel,
integrated their work with the respective Engineering and Construction Departments,



                                                13

participated actively in National Environmental DPV Meetings, and also worked closely
with the environmental units of other provincial organizations.

(b)      The indicator stipulating a target of 3,150 km of priority Provincial roads to be
rehabilitated or paved under the project, reached a target of 2,938 km, 93%, which can be
considered satisfactory given the budgetary constraints that affected project
implementation.

(c)       Serviceability of the paved road network in the participating Provinces has been
substantially improved, the condition rating of the roads increased from 48% and 6% in
good and poor condition respectively in 1995 to 72% and less than 2 % respectively by
the end of 2005. (This result is rated as satisfactory given the 10 year span that was
necessary to achieve it).

(d)      All 6 Provinces now count with modern management tools to assess alternatives
for road asset management and conservation within a restricted budget, to optimize the
network condition. These tools are being used extensively in 3 of the six Provinces, and
in all Provinces the DPV staff was able to prepare with high standards the multi-annual
maintenance program and CREMA proposed projects for the follow-up operation. All
DPVs in participating Provinces are now equipped to carry out the management and to
oversee maintenance and development of their respective networks as set out in the
Project Development Objectives.

A comprehensive assessment of all project features and associated outcome targets is
included in Annex 4. This Annex presents the Project Monitoring Indicators and Targets
which were originally established in the implementation letter to the Loan Agreement,
dated April 17, 1997, and also includes the assessment of Development Objectives as
recorded in ISRs No. 14 to 26. As analyzed in 7.3 above, the SAR presented an
aggregated original physical target indicator for rehabilitation and upgrading which was
over optimistic since it was based on an assumption that substantial cofinancing would
be secured (i.e., estimated rehabilitation and upgrading costs at aprox. US$630 m
financed with the US$ 300 m loan, US$ 150 m co-financing and US$ 180 m from
Provinces). However, the co-financer was not identified and the fiscal constraints
reduced the counterpart financing from Provinces so the total estimated co-financing for
rehabilitation and upgrading in 2000 (at the time of the first amendment) was about
US$100 so the aggregate funding available in 2000 for rehabilitation and upgrading was
US$400 m compared to US$ 630 m for these two main components. Therefore the final
assessments presented are against (i) the adjusted performance indicators to reflect the
reduced total financing secured (from lack of co-financing and the higher IBRD
financing percentages), and (ii) the modified project outputs (targets) agreed during the
Mid-Term Review. Annex 4 presents the methodology followed to arrive at the adjusted
performance indicators whereby the reductions were based on: (i) a factor 0.75 to the
Project Monitoring Indicators and Targets registered in the annex to the negotiation's
implementation letter, except the absolute IRI values, reflecting the reduction of the
number of participating provinces from 8 to 6 which finally participated in the project;
and (ii) a factor of 0.67 to the indicators for total length of roads to be rehabilitated and



                                               14

paved, reflecting the effect of the reduction in counterpart funds and consequent increase
in IBRD financing percentages from 50% to 75% and the resulting reduction in
the length of eligible roads.

An analysis of compliance with these outcome indicators was carried out comparing the
final results with the targets agreed during MTR mission. The assesment takes into
consideration adverse factors which affected project implementation
and sector developments. The physical implementation results, presented below, is
satisfactory considering in particular that US$35 m from loan proceeds were reallocated
for the social emergency and flood rehabilitation after the Mid-Term Review targets were
established in 2002 (as described in 6.6).

Assessment of physical implementation indicators can be summarized as follows:

(e)      The road rehabilitation target was exceeded by 2,4%, while road paving reached
only 60% of its target, due to the high cost of paving works, which rendered much lower
rates of return than rehabilitation works, making them less eligible. Rehabilitation and
paving works combined achieved 93% of the target, which is remarkable considering
that US$35 m were reallocated from loan proceeds (section 6.6). Physical
implementation of rehabilitation and paving components is rated as satisfactory.

(f)      The expenditure targets for representative maintenance operations, and routine
maintenance expenditures, were exceeded (US$757 million instead of US$670 million)
as described in Annex 4, in part because the project was extended from 5 to 8.5 years.
During implementation, reporting on the three selected physical indicators for road
maintenance was not always consistent. Nevertheless, data was regularly collected by
CEU, even though it was not always reported in the review reports nor systematically
incorporated into the project reporting system. The targets for patching, grading and road
markings were met or exceeded. Therefore, maintenance indicators are rated as
moderately satisfactory.

(g)       The overall results for reduction of road roughness are satisfactory. For paved
roads, the reduction of the average IRI roughness index from 3.0 targeted to 2.6 is highly
satisfactory, while for unpaved roads the discrete result of 8.56 achieved compared to 8.0
targeted, is rated as satisfactory.

Assessment of Institutional Development indicators can be summarized as follows:

(h)      The 6 provinces taken together complied with the compounded target set for
length, measured in km, of road networks surveyed by year.

(i)      An in-depth review was undertaken to assess whether the indicator on
outsourcing of road maintenance was achieved. The assessment considered that the
original targets were set for "contracting", and the same targets were kept when the
concept was changed to "outsourcing", which has a wider scope. Also, as shown in
the table on Maintenance Outsourcing, the participating Provinces differ substantially in



                                             15

the use of outsourcing procedures, not only among them, but also in each province
between paved and unpaved networks. The more developed provinces of Cordoba,
Buenos Aires and Santa Fe, which outsource most or all maintenance of their respective
paved and unpaved networks, achieved their targets. The other three provinces rely on
force account for the maintenance of all their paved roads, and on average a third of their
unpaved roads. Notably, the three more developed provinces perform the outsourcing of
paved roads maintenance almost entirely by contracting, while for unpaved roads they
relay mostly on delegation to Municipalities or Road Consortia (legally established
associations of neighbor farmers and road users). In the other three provinces,
outsourcing of maintenance of paved roads is non existent and extremely limited for
unpaved roads, except for Entre Rios, which relies 57% on delegation to Road Consortia.
The effort undertaken in the first Loan Amendment (June 2000) to strengthen the
contracting of road maintenance by introducing the CREMA system of contracting and
providing financing for its execution did not succeed. Most DPV labor units in the
provinces opposed this initiative and their position prevailed due to the general political
turmoil affecting the country. Only the provinces of Buenos Aires and Santa Fe
managed to prepare and receive the Bank's no objection to one CREMA contract each;
however, Santa Fe never tendered its project and Buenos Aires tendered its project in
2001, but could not award it because of contracting difficulties caused by the devaluation
of the AR$ and the absence of a price readjustment clause. Although the maintenance
outsourcing implementation target was 94 % accomplished for the paved network and
85% for the unpaved network, the uneven distribution of accomplishments and the
failure to introduce the CREMA system results in a combined rating of moderately
satisfactory.

(j)      During project implementation the efficiency of road asset management in the
participating Provinces was evaluated to be satisfactory through a follow-up of (1) staff
reduction efforts, and (2) unit costs of outputs. Details are included in section 8.3 below.

(k)      Training is rated as highly satisfactory and is analyzed in detail in 8.5 (b) below.

(l)      Implementation of the Institutional Development Program executed by M/s
INOCSA was rated as satisfactory and is also analyzed in detail in 8.5 (b) below.

(m)       A report assessing the Health Emergency Program as a whole rated its outcome
as satisfactory. It exceed the targets that had been set for the two originating projects,
PROMIN and VIGIA; to diminish price of the relevant drugs and other goods acquired
through the program; and to turn around the increasing trend of infant mortality that had
started in 2001 as a consequence of the severe economic, social and political instability
prevailing in Argentina at that time.

(n)      Outcome of the flood prevention component is also rated as satisfactory,
because it achieved satisfactory completion of the two works that had remained
unfinished after closing of the Flood Protection Project, Loan 4117-AR.

Considering the above, the project outcome is rated satisfactory.



                                              16

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Economic evaluation.         At appraisal an economic analysis was carried out for each
participating province, at the network and program (i.e. subproject) level, using the HDM
III and the HDM Manager models. The results of the HDM analyses, including the
selected maintenance and paving strategies and the corresponding Net Present Values
(NPV) for the respective subprojects were calculated. The results of the economic
evaluation of the project, aggregating the eight appraised subprojects, resulted at
appraisal in an estimated NPV for the project of US$ 3,143 m and the corresponding
Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of about 39%. The individual subprojects had
an estimated IERR ranging from 23% to 45%.
At completion the ex-post economic evaluations were carried out for a sample in the six
participating Provinces. The analyses carried out entirely by the staff in each DPV were
carried out taking into account the timing planned for each sub-project at appraisal and
the actual execution and completion. The assessment was carried out using the HDM
model. As indicated above, at appraisal the rehabilitation component had an
estimated total Net Present Value of US$ 2,740 million, with an average consolidated
Economic Internal Rate of Return of 49%. Ex-post analyses at completion result in
a total Net Present Value of US$ 3,362 million, with an average Economic Internal Rate
of Return of 166%. The economic return of the project remains therefore at a highly
satisfactory level. The details of the analyses, province by province are included in
Annex 5.

Cost effectiveness. During project implementation, an indicator was used to assess
efficiency achievement in the use of resources, setting cost targets of US$100,000/km for
rehabilitation and of US$180,000/km for paving works. In 2005 the costs, were
US$108,000/km and US$195,900/km respectively, showing in both cases an
achievement rate of 92.0%. However, after devaluation in 2002 these costs reached by
the end of 2003 their lowest level at US$98,000/km and US$147,000/km respectively,
with satisfactory compliance rates of 102% and 122%. This proves that this indicator is
strongly influenced by the relation between both currencies: it fell substantially after the
1 to 3 devaluation, but it rose again when the rate of exchange was maintained at a fixed
level, despite substantial inflation experienced by the Argentine currency.

Staff reduction. The project monitored staffing reduction efforts in the participating
Provinces. A target of 4,043 staff was estimated in 2000 during the MTR; this target
cannot be compared with the 5,594 actual staffing of the 6 participating DVPs since the
target was calculated for 3 provinces in the year 2000. Based on data provided by the
CEU, the total staff of the 6 DPVs was 7,068 in the year 2000 and was reduced to 5,594
by December 31, 2005, rendering a staffing reduction index of 21% in five years, which
is rated as satisfactory. Most of the reduction as expected was through attrition.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)


                                             17

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating is satisfactory considering that the Project Development
Objectives were accomplished in six Provinces of Argentina which as a group represent
about 68% of the population, 74% of GDP and 46% of the total provincial road network.
In all six Provinces the administration of provincial road assets has been developed and
improved, with greater efficiency in the use of resources, through the use of modern
management tools and the establishment of basic capacities to assess priorities within
budget constraints (e.g., Provinces of Corrientes and Cordoba). Moreover, the
restructuring of the project assisted the Government to address a major economic and
social crisis.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

By satisfactorily achieving its main objectives of strengthening provincial road
administrations, and improving efficiency of the use of resources and the serviceability
of the provincial road network, this project undoubtedly also benefited the rural
population, the agricultural production, and the general economy of the six participating
provinces. Through the national training efforts (environmental units and HDM), as well
as the growing perception that DPV management could be strengthened, it also
influenced directly or indirectly similar developments in other provinces.

Both Loan restructuring added three components that enhanced these positive impacts.
The new flood protection component completed works initiated under Loan 4117-AR to
prevent flooding of areas mostly inhabited by very poor families. The additional
components for improvement of maternal and child health and for strengthening disease
surveillance and control were part of a concerted Bank effort to restructure five ongoing
Loans in support of the government's aim to avoid the effects of a critical health crisis.
The Bank's response was well coordinated with the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) and other local and international institutions to tackle the most urgent needs of the
government with the goal of protecting the poorest groups of the population and its
human capital during the crisis.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project had a significant impact in the DPVs of participating Provinces through the
provision of a structured program of technical assistance and support with the
implementation of a physical program. It is noteworthy that the road rehabilitation and
paving programs implemented were some of the few that could be carried out in the
entire country's provincial road network during the project period due to the economic
crisis (alongside the CREMAs financed under a separate project executed by DNV).
This project constituted an incentive to Provincial staff associated with the project at a
difficult time. Moreover, the DPVs strengthened their management abilities, adopted


                                               18

modern tools for road asset management and prioritized of maintenance with scarce
budgets, and implemented environmental screening and assessments of road projects.

Two additional dimensions worth noting are the outcomes for training, and the
institutional strengthening program implemented by M/s INOCSA.

(a) Training provides a major success story, since training activities supported capacity
building for 4,730 professionals in 10,648 trainee-weeks, 4 times the target of 2,638,
in different fields such as:   Road Planning and Programming, Engineering and Design,
Road Maintenance, Financing and Accounting Management, Human Resources
Management, and Information and Communication Systems. The total commitment of
CEU and the involved provinces with the execution of this program allowed DPV
personnel to: (a) improve planning of road investments, (b) foster economic evaluation
of projects, (c) incorporate environmental assessment and community participation into
the planning process, and (d) optimize use of resources. Courses offered by universities
and short courses available locally were also valuable to train provincial staff on relevant
subjects. The training program was executed at a low cost of about US$1 million, with
the additional advantage that many other provinces were encouraged to emulate this
program and promote the active participation of their personnel in these courses. The
training program is rated of highly satisfactory.

(b) The Institutional Development Program was implemented through a contract signed
in 1999 with a Spanish-Argentine joint venture M/s INOCSA with the following
objectives: (i) training of DPV higher echelons, (ii) introduction of and training in the use
of the HDM and EBM models, (iii) preparation and implementation of acquisition of
information and communication systems, (iv) development of management systems for:
routine maintenance; administration, financing and accounting; and (v) management of
human resources. This technical assistance operated very well with highly satisfactory
results until the end of 2001. Since the proposal for the services had been presented in
US$, but signed for the same amount expressed in AR$ (due to legal regulations based
on the parity of both currencies), the 2002 devaluation of the AR$ induced strong
discrepancies about reimbursable expenditures in foreign currencies and the need for a
price escalation formula that did not exist at that time. Discussions with provincial and
the federal governments lasted for three years and were not solved until August 2005. In
the meantime the DPVs continued using the methodologies and manuals already
produced by the consultants and promoted their further divulgation. After resumption of
their activities, the consultants managed to complete their assignment. Performance of
this service and of the training programs could have been assessed more accurately rated
if the project management indicators on response time for different administration
procedures agreed at negotiations had been collected, recorded and reported, but this was
not done. Moreover, additional indicators could have been established to better
access these two programs. In thair absence the Institutional Development Program
rating is captured under the more general institutional strengthening efforts which are
rated satisfactory.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)



                                             19

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)




9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

As stated in 8.1, the PRP, as a pioneering lending operation, achieved a satisfactory
impact on the strengthening of the development and administration of the provincial road
system in Argentina . It also fostered a more direct and in-depth dialogue with provincial
authorities enabling the identification of different approaches and lending opportunities
at this level. This process enriched Bank experiences in this sub-sector and prompted
diversification of Bank road operations at the provincial level, as described in 8.1.
Preparation of these 4 new operations took into account the experiences gained during
implementation of the PRP to overcome the effects of the detrimental factors and events
described in 7.2 a) to c).

The difficulties caused by the diversified character and independency of provincial
administrations, and by their occasional conflicting relationships with federal authorities,
have been substantially diminished by the expertise developed in the CEU. Moreover,
the success of the institutional strengthening and personnel training initiatives have
prompted an expanded interest of GOPs to participate in the new projects, and further
strengthened their commitment to the development objectives of these programs, as well
as a clearer understanding of the objectives by other stakeholders. Finally, the project
shed some light on the potential development of the CREMA contracting system at the
provincial level even though this system was not implemented within the project period.

The significant improvement of the Argentine economy, and the introduction of
macroeconomic policies focused on the generation of fiscal surpluses, the existence of a
countrywide functioning Price Escalation Formula, and the experience gained in the last
four years in strengthening budgetary arrangements at the national and provincial levels,
are expected to prevent major problems with the continuation of the activities financed
under the follow-up project.

These achievements need to be complemented through more results oriented institutional
and financial efforts by the provincial authorities in the following fields: (a) further
upgrading of institutional and personnel capability in planning, preparation,
implementation and supervision of road programs; (b) definition of the most adequate
road standards to achieve optimal vehicle operation costs savings; (c) strengthening of
the data base and methodologies for satisfactory programming of investment works and
maintenance operations; (d) timely availability of funds for these expenditures; and
(e)consistent and continuous recording and reporting of compliance with agreed DOs and



                                                20

performance indicators. Considering all the above, Risk to Development Objectives is
rated as moderate.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

This was a pioneer project in encouraging the evolution of the administration of
provincial road assets. Bank missions were staffed with diversified and appropriate
skills to perform highly complex tasks, such as to: (a) assess the administrative and
financial structure and capability of the 24 Argentine provinces, (b) define conditions that
the provinces would have to comply with to ensure their participation in the project; (c)
obtain, process and analyze a huge amount of information on each province; (d) assess
compliance of the interested provinces with set conditions ; (e) deal with a great number
of independent provincial authorities; (f) reach a primary selection of candidate
provinces, and most importantly, (g) design the complete legal, administrative and
technical structure and the subsidiary arrangements the project required for successful
implementation.

While performing these complex tasks, the Bank identified the main risks to be:
ineffective management of sub-projects by DPVs; inadequate coordination and
monitoring by the CEU, and insufficient counterpart funds, in particular for maintenance.
In order to minimize these risks and in keeping with its fiduciary responsibilities, the
Bank incorporated into the project's concept and design the experience acquired in other
road projects in Argentina and other countries including: all foreseeable definitions,
organizational arrangements administrative, technical and environment safeguards and
control measures; as well as those necessary to guarantee satisfactory coordination and
monitoring by the CEU and timely availability of financial resources. All these
preventive measures unfortunately proved to be insufficient to confront the severe
economic and political crises that repeatedly affected project implementation. Even with
the benefit of hindsight, the appraisal and negotiation teams could not have foreseen the
detrimental effects on project implementation as a result of the unexpected economic and
political crises and consequent instabilities in country and sector management. As
discussed earlier. some key performance indicators could have been more clearly defined,
and reporting on indicators could have been more systematic. Overall, Bank Performance
in Ensuring Quality of Entry is rated as satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank closely supervised project implementation, especially given the multiplicity of
economic and political problems, and focused in particular on compliance with the


                                                21

Development Objectives, and progress was closely monitored and reported on in depth in
Aide Memoirs prepared during each supervision mission, particularly during the critical
years 2000 to 2003 All relevant aspects of project implementation, and within each
province, were carefully analyzed and substantial agreements on updating of the ongoing
action plans were recorded and monitored This continuous and active interchange with
the Borrower, allowed the Bank to take timely corrective actions, such as: setting
benchmarks and readjusting targets to accommodate changing conditions, increase
disbursements rates to provide financial assistance, extending the Loan closing date to
compensate for implementation delays due to external factors, and finally, undertaling
two restructurings to provide additional financing to three projects of primary social
relevance. Bank performance was crucial for the satisfactory achievement of most
project objectives and is rated as satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Considering the above ratings, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Government Performance can be assessed considering the complex interrelationship
between central and provincial governments, and taking into account the critical events
that affected project implementation (7.2). Strong central government ownership ensured
clearly defined Project Objectives, and adequate preparation of its general administrative,
financial and regulatory arrangements. Enthusiastic support of this initiative by some
provincial governments augured well for its success and allowed the preparation of
subsidiary agreements required for the launching of this pilot project. Nevertheless, start-
up of the project was first delayed by several months, and then slowed down for over two
years by legal difficulties and bottlenecks at both levels.

Once the project got really started in early 2000, the involved governments were
committed to achieving its satisfactory implementation. As explained before,
these efforts were thwarted by the recession followed by the economic crisis in 2002, all
of which reduced the positive impact of the remedial actions agreed under the First
Amendment in June 2000. As soon as the general economic and political condition of the
country started to stabilize in mid 2002, the Government and the Bank agreed
to restructure the Loan in October 2002, and project implementation improved.

GOA and GOPs could now put forth their best efforts to strengthen their own
administration and personnel, to pursue sound macro, sectoral and institutional policies,
to comply with all obligations under the restructured Loan Agreement, to increase local
funding, and to perform satisfactory project implementation and monitoring. Substantial
progress was achieved in strengthening institutional and environmental administration of
the DPVs. Unfortunately, most of the provincial governments still showed shortcomings



                                              22

in their performance, such as: (a) weakness in timely preparation of new road
improvement subprojects: (b) persistent slowness in bid processing and contract
awarding; (c) deficiencies in implementation of maintenance practices, consisting mainly
of crack and joint sealing, patching, grass-mowing and signs repair operations; and (d)
little interest in privatization of road maintenance echoing a general sentiment of
disillusionment in the country with privatization, and opposition by DNV labor unions
and other local stakeholders. The last issue is illustrated by the fact that 4 provinces did
not comply with the commitment agreed in June 2000, to include the successful CREMA
contracting system for road rehabilitation and maintenance works in their respective road
programs; the two provinces that attempted to comply, failed in their efforts due to lack
of sufficient support by key stakeholders. Arrangements for transition to the follow-up
Provincial Roads Infrastructure Project took into due consideration all experiences gained
under this project and paid particular attention to strengthening road maintenance
outsourcing by the successful diffusion of the CREMA contracting System.

Government Performance as a whole for the period 1998 to 2002 must be considered
Moderately Satisfactory, while for the remaining period until closing it can be rated as
Satisfactory. The overall rating for Government Performance is satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency           Performance

                 The performance of the project coordination and monitoring agency, CEU,
                 in project execution was of a high standard, due in great part to the
                 continuity, competence and strong motivation of its staff. CEU efforts to
                 ensure compliance with the project's objectives and smooth
                 implementation of the involved programs were affected, as analyzed in
                 previous sections, by external economic and political factors, coupled
                 with changes in the project staff in GOA and GOP. These factors
                 weakened the CEU's project focus, at critical periods and curtailed at times
                 satisfactory implementation of the provincial road investment and
                 maintenance programs. Only the CEU's and GOPs' high level of
                 commitment with the institutional strengthening, alongside the capacity
Ministry of
Fed. Planning    building efforts and environment management programs, helped the
                 Project overcome implementation hurdles and achieve satisfactorily its
                 objectives.




                 As stated in 7.2 (a), the CEU developed an extraordinary expertise in
                 dealing with the GOPs and other stakeholders, and showed great skills and
                 flexibility in confronting and ameliorating problems generated by
                 sometimes differing development objectives through a crisis period. All
                 fiduciary aspects of project management were performed in a satisfactory
                 manner. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were generally


                                               23

                satisfactory, but partially curtailed by the shortcomings mentioned in 7.3
                and detailed in 8.2. CEU shares with the Bank missions the merits for a
                highly satisfactory preparation of the supervision Aide Memoirs, which
                assisted in procuring timely solution of implementation issues and
                ensuring success of the two project restructuring. All 6 participating
                provinces have expressed their acknowledgement of the effective guidance
                and support received from CEU. Finally, the CEU has displayed a primary
                role in the preparation of the new projects and is well prepared to continue
                its effective action to ensure full success of the new initiatives. The
                Performance of this agency is rated Satisfactory.




(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

1          A few features that are closely linked to successful implementation of the
Project are: emphasize project readiness and good quality of designs, encourage
Borrower commitment to the project objectives even during a crisis, dedicate a lot of
effort to efficient coordination and supervision with the Project Coordination Unit,
ensure flexibility of the bank teams to revise and restructuring the Loan Agreement
(repeatedly as necessary), and mobilize good support during supervision missions from
the decentralized Field Office.

2.       No funding arrangements would have survived the severity of the crisis of 2002.
The critical financing problems experienced from 1999 to 2003 by this project, due to its
dependency on annual budgetary allocations subject to sudden political decisions, show
clearly the need to continue working on the predictability and reliability of the road
sector financing system. A sound and permanent system of road financing at the
provincial level through a combination of user fees (direct and indirect) combined with
financial assistance from the central government are required to better plan, program and
implement road infrastructure management, allowing Provincial DPVs to better serve the
needs of the local community and support the growth of national economic activities.

3.       Unforeseen delays in the Bank and Borrower administrative procedures between
Project Negotiation and Loan Effectiveness required a longer gestation period far beyond
regular scheduling. This provoked obsolescence of some of the project arrangements and
lost valuable time period. No matter how demanding and complex the tasks of project
preparation may be, they should also include a careful study of possible obstacles that



                                               24

could surface during that gestation period and consequent accurate scheduling of all
required steps. There appears to be a limit on the Federal Government's ability to
expedite the initial approval processes for loan approval and subsidiary agreements
which is detrimental of efficient implementation.

4.      Successful implementation of a necessary institutional strengthening program,
and of a closely related human resource development program, require better
defined binding agreements between the Borrower and the Bank, strong ownership by
the Borrower and Sub-Borrowers, detailed programming, and subsequent execution over
the years. Adequate measures should be taken in a timely manner to ensure continuity
and permanency of successful processes endangered by external economic problems.

5.      Clear and consistent definition of development objectives and key performance
indicators at appraisal, negotiations and eventual restructuring, binding commitments by
the Borrower and its executing agency to collect, register and report the necessary data,
early agreements between the executive agency and the bank supervision team on the
adequate form to establish, eventually revise and report them, and annual reporting of
these indicators by the executing agency for their analysis and discussion with the Bank
supervision mission, would greatly contribute to a constant and reliable monitoring of
development objectives and performance indicators

6.      Close assessment of the achievements of this project show the need to
complement them through more results oriented institutional and financial efforts of
provincial authorities in the following fields:
          (a) Further upgrading of institutional and personnel capability in planning,
preparation, implementation and supervision of road programs.
          (b) Definition of the most adequate standards in each province to achieve
optimal vehicle operation costs savings and maximize proficient use of resources.
          (c) Strengthening the data base and methodologies for satisfactory
programming of investment works and maintenance operations.
          (d) Ensure timely availability of sufficient funds for these expenditures.
          (e) Ensure consistent and continuous recording and reporting of compliance
with agreed development objectives and performance indicators.
          (f) Encourage every effort to instill political will to reflect and internalize the
results oriented characteristics of the CREMA style contracts at provincial level.

7.      Severe economic crises pose serious challenges for the Government and the
Bank to protect the poor and indigent households after the crises. The experience of this
Project indicates that this can be best achieved through concerted actions of the
Government and internationally funded projects focusing on selected objectives that aim
at protecting key human capital resources.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

1        Good quality project design, Borrower commitment to the project objectives,



                                             25

efficient coordination and supervision by the Project Coordination Unit, Bank flexibility
in revising and restructuring the Loan Agreement, and good support during supervision
missions from the decentralized Country Management Unit are of utmost importance to
carry through a complex project severely endangered by critical economic and political
problems.

2.      The critical financing problems experienced from 1999 to 2003 by this project,
due to its dependency on annual budgetary allocations subject to sudden political
decisions, show clearly the need to establish an adequate and reliable financing system.
A sound and permanent system of road financing at the provincial level through a
combination of financial assistance from the central government, and direct indirect users
fees is mandatory to guarantee the consolidation of a road infrastructure able to serve the
needs of the local community and to contribute support to the growth of national
economic activities.

3.      Unforeseen delays in the Bank' and in the Borrower' administrative procedures
between Project Negotiation and Loan Effectiveness may induce an extension of this
gestation period far beyond regular scheduling, and provoke obsolescence of some of the
projects arrangements or squander a valuable time period auspicious for effective project
implementation. No matter how demanding and complex the tasks of project preparation
may be, they should also include a careful study of possible obstacles that could surface
during that gestation period and consequent accurate scheduling of all required steps.

4.       Successful implementation of a necessary institutional strengthening program,
and of a closely related personnel training program, require clear and binding agreements
between the Borrower and the Bank, strong ownership by the Borrower and Sub-
Borrowers, detailed programming, and consequent execution over the years. Adequate
measures should be taken timely to ensure continuity and permanency of successful
processes endangered by external economic problems.

5.       Clear and consistent definition of development objectives and key performance
indicators at appraisal, negotiations and eventual restructuring, binding commitments by
the Borrower and its executing agency to collect, register and report the necessary data,
early agreements between the executive agency and the bank supervision team on the
adequate form to establish, eventually revise and report them, and annual reporting of
these indicators by the executing agency for their analysis and discussion with the Bank
supervision mission, would greatly contribute to a constant and reliable monitoring of
development objectives and performance indicators

6.       Close assessment of the achievements of this project show the need to
complement them through more results oriented institutional and financial efforts of
provincial authorities in the following fields:
         (a) Further upgrading of institutional and personnel capability in planning,
preparation, implementation and supervision of road programs.
         (b) Definition of the most adequate standards in each province to achieve
optimal vehicle operation costs savings and maximize proficient use of resources.



                                             26

         (c) Strengthening the data base and methodologies for satisfactory programming
of investment works and maintenance operations.
         (d) Ensure timely availability of sufficient funds for these expenditures.
         (e) Ensure consistent and continuous recording and reporting of compliance with
agreed development objectives and performance indicators.
         (f) Encourage every effort to instill political will to reflect and internalize the
results oriented characteristics of the CREMA style contracts at provincial level.

7.      Serious challenges for the government and the Bank to protect the poor and
indigent households from the effect of severe health crises, can best be faced by
concerted actions of international organizations and governments focusing on selected
objectives aimed at the protection of key human capital resources.


(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             27

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objectives of the Provincial Roads Project were to: a) develop and implement
efficient provincial road programs (PRPs) based on appropriate design and maintenance
standards, with a view to improving (i) the efficiency of resource use in the provinces'
road sectors and ( ii) the serviceability of the provincial road networks; b) reorganize
DPVs' (Direccion Provincial de Vialidad / Provincial Road Department) operations,
gradually transferring maintenance execution to private contractors or to local road
consortia, strengthening DVPs' technical and management capabilities and establishing
clear goals and accountability for implementing their road programs, including
decentralized responsibilities for the national road network; and c) strengthen DPVs'
environmental management capabilities. This sector-type project, consists of similar
subprojects in participating provinces. Each subproject included the following
components: a) policy and institutional development, b) rehabilitation and maintenance,
c) upgrading and new construction, d) studies, and e) project management.

The original project development objectives were maintained even though through the
restructuring described below there were additional components added to the project.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Significant changes in project scope were made in 2002, to adjust the project and reflect
the impacts of the severe economic crisis (see paras. 6.6 and 6.7). Moreover, in 2004, the
project scope was again modified to finance priority flood protection investments under
Loan 4117-AR. After these two modifications of project scope, the PDO's were expanded
as follows: (a) to develop and implement Road Programs in each eligible Province in
order to improve: (i) the efficiency of the use of resources in the road sector; and (ii) the
serviceability of the road network; (b) to reorganize the Provincial Road Department
(DPV) in each participating province strengthening their technical, environmental and
management capacity in order to, inter alia, implement Road Programs; (c) to improve
maternal and child health through delivery of quality services, and to strengthen disease
surveillance and control activities, all for purposes of reducing the acute risk of disease in
the Borrower's territory [these components were added through an amendment approved
by the Board of Directors on October 16, 2002]; and (d) to improve the physical and
institutional flood protection capabilities within the Participating Provinces through (i)
strengthening of city flood defense to reduce vulnerability, and (ii) preparation of future
flood prevention and urban drainage program [these components were added through an
amendment approved by the Board of Directors on July 16, 2004].

At the time of the MTR in March 2000, the key physical target indicators were modified
to reflect the actual available financing for the rehabilitation and upgrading components
(see detailed description of modified key indicators in section 8.2). There were
no specific changes made to the key performance indicators (other than physical targets)
of the original project components as a result of the restructurings in 2002 and 2004



                                               28

described above, and no key indicators were added for the new components.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                       Original Target Formally      Actual Value Achieved at
  Indicator       Baseline Value         Values (from    Revised
                                           approval       Target       Completion or Target

                                         documents)       Values                Years

Indicator 1 : Establishment of 6 environmental management units in the participating provinces
                                                                    6 environmental
                                                                    management units
Value         Environmental                                         established in participating
(quantitative management units in      6 environmental              provinces and 8 units
or            participating units to bemanagement                   formed in other provinces.
Qualitative)  established              units established            national coordination of all
                                                                    14 units is now an annual
                                                                    event.
Date
achieved      02/02/1998               12/30/2005                   06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Rehabilitation and/or paving of 3,150 kms of priority provincial roads
Value
(quantitative
or            None                     2,935 km                     2,938 km

Qualitative)
Date
achieved      02/02/1998               12/30/2005                   06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 : Serviceability of the road network and improved network condition in
              Participating Provinces
              The condition of the                                  Serviceability of the paved
Value         paved road network is                                 road network in the
(quantitative 48% in good condition, Less than 5% in                participating Provinces was
or            46% fair condition and bad condition                  substantially improved,
Qualitative)  6% in bad condition in                                with less than 2% in bad
              1995                                                  condition.
Date
achieved      12/13/1995               12/30/2005                   06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)



                                                29

                             Original Target        Formally
  Indicator      Baseline                                            Actual Value Achieved at
                  Value        Values (from           Revised
                           approval documents) Target Values        Completion or Target Years

                Out of 102 civil work contracts there are 94 that have been completed, 8 are
Indicator 1 : advanced under implementation, 1 civil work contract will require additional
                time after Dec. 31, 2005.

Value                                                              All 102 contracts were

(quantitative or                                                   completed, 120 project designs

Qualitative)                                                       were used and 113 bids were
                                                                   invited.
Date achieved                                                      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement
achievement)




                                               30

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                    Board  ISR Ratings at       Amount
Restructuring Approved Restructuring         Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)         PDO                    Restructuring in        Key Changes Made
                   Change    DO      IP         USD M
                                                              Restructuring approved by the
                                                              Board on 10/16/2002.

10/16/2002       Y            S       U               120.11  Amendment to finance
                                                              emergency health program
                                                              activities under Loans 4164
                                                              and 4516-AR.
                                                              Reallocation to finance

07/16/2004       Y            S        S              188.87  priority flood protection
                                                              contracts , originally under
                                                              Loan 4117-AR.
If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                           Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets               Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets       Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                  Satisfactory




                                          31

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                         Appraisal
             Components                Estimate (USD      Actual/Latest     Percentage of

                                            M)          Estimate (USD M)     Appraisal

REHABILITATION AND PERIODIC
MAINTENANCE                                    372.00              275.20          73.98

UPGRADING, PAVING AND NEW
CONSTRUCTION                                   261.00               79.00          30.27

STUDIES AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                                      55.00               13.50          24.55

ROUTINE MAINTENANCE                            670.00               757.40        113.04
FLOOD DEFENSES AND
PREPARATION OF NEW PROGRAM                       0.00               17.10

PUBLIC HEALTH ACTIVITIES AND
EMERGENCY PROGRAM                                0.00               18.00

                  Total Baseline Cost        1,358.00             1,160.20
Physical Contingencies                          90.00
Price Contingencies                             52.00
                   Total Project Costs       1,500.00
Front-end fee PPF                                0.00                 0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.00                 0.00          0.00
            Total Financing Required         1,500.00             1,160.20



(b) Financing


                                                 Appraisal   Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds             Type of                                Percentage of
                                  Cofinancing    Estimate    Estimate (USD
                                                 (USD M)           M)         Appraisal

  Borrower                                         1200.00            863.70       71.98
  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                   300.00           296.50       98.83
DEVELOPMENT


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                           32

33

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

    Component/Subject        (1)         Indicators           Projected         Mid         Actual/       Percentage
                                                              in PAD    (2)    Term          Latest        Achieved
                                                                                                               (3)
                                                                               Review       Estimate

 Onlending
 Appraisal of Subprojects           Nb. Subprojects                8              7             6             85.7
                                    Approved
 Negotiations and Signing of        Nb. SLAs signed                8              7             6             85.7
 SLAs
 Loan Disbursement Target           US$ million                   300            300           297            99.0
                                    (cumulated)


 Physical Implementation
 Rehabilitation and Resurfacing     Executed (km)               3,015           2,475         2,534          102.4
 Upgrading and Paving               Executed (km)               2,470            675           404            59.9
 Routine Maintenance                Patching (thousand            600            481           671           139.5
                                    m2)                         2,270           1,226         2,335          190.5
                                    Grading (thousand           19,425         16,166        16,770          103.7
                                    km)
                                    Road markings (km)
 Network Condition    (4)

 Paved Networks (Basel. >3.1)       Average roughness            2.80             3            2.60          115.4
                                    (IRI)
 Unpaved Networks (Basel.           Average roughness              6              8            8.56           93.5
 n/a.)                              (IRI)


 Institutional Development
 Network Survey                     Length surveyed             86,250         47,800        47,944          100.3
                                    (km)
 Maintenance                        % Outsourced                 74%             80%       Paved 75%          94.0
                                                                                             Unpav.           85.0
                                                                                               68%
 Staffing                           DPV Staff                   4,500           4,043         5,594         72.3  (a)

                                    Reductions
 Training                           Nb. Trainees-Week           4,500           2,638        10.645          403.5
 Improve the efficiency of the      Reduce US$ / km               n/a         <100.000       108.600          92.0
 use of resources in the            cost of rehabilitation
 Provincial Road Sector.            Reduce US$ / km               n/a         <180.000       195.900          92.3
 (Basel. Rehab. > 150.000)          cost of paving
 (Basel. Paving > 200.000)


(1)  (Basel) means Baseline values.
(2)  The indicators originated in the Loan's implementation letter have been adjusted by a factor of 0.75 representing
the proportional reduction of the number of provinces and those for road rehabilitation and paving, by an additional
factor of 0.65 representing the proportional reduction because of the increase of disbursement rates from 50% to 75%.
(3)  Percentages have been estimated compared to Mid Term Review indicators.
(4) At the appraisal stage the road network condition was to be monitored through the calculation of the Structural
Index (SI) but after implementation started, the project team and Government agreed to monitor condition based on
annual average roughness surveys.
(a) Not an appropriate indicator, percentage of reduction should have been used instead.
n/a Means not available.




                                                           34

                                            Maintenance Outsourcing


                               Paved Network                                Unpaved Network
 Province       Force      Contracts     Road  (1)   Municipa-      Force  Contracts Road  (1) Municipa-
               Account                   Consortia      lities     Account           Consortia  lities

 Buenos          10%          80%            0          10%         10%     10%         0       80%
 Aires
 Córdoba           0         100%            0            0           0     15%       85%         0
 Corrientes     100%           0             0            0         43%      0        57%         0
 Entre Ríos     100%           0             0            0         96%      0         2%        2%
 Neuquén        100%           0             0            0         88%     12%         0         0
 Santa Fé        30%          70%            0            0         15%      0        85%         0
 Weighted
 Average        25%          70%             0          5%          32%     7%        45%       16%

(1) Legally established associations of neighbor farmers and road users.




                                                        35

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)


The methodology used for assessing the ex-post economic returns of the project
consisted in selecting a representative sample of road rehabilitation sub-projects executed
in each participating province. These results were compared to those obtained at
appraisal. The size of the representative samples was uniformly set at a minimum of
20% of the total rehabilitation program executed in each province. The evaluations were
carried out using the HDM-4 model in five of the provinces and the HDM-3 in the
province of Corrientes.

The economic analyses were limited to the paved network program financed with Loan
proceeds, except for the province of Neuquen which had a program with pacing
interventions predominantly but where an upgrading/paving sub-project was selected for
the economic evaluation. The analysis related to the appraisal stage, i.e., the conditions
prevailing at the time when the sub-project was submitted for Bank's approval were
taken, to consider essentially the rehabilitation standards proposed, their unit costs, the
traffic volumes and pavement condition during the year assumed to be the year of
execution. For the ex-post analysis, the values of these parameters were adjusted to
correspond to the actual timing when these works effectively took place. All costs were
converted into constant dollars, and a uniform discount rate of 12% was considered. By
and large, and for the overlay program the scenario without project consisted in routinely
maintaining the existing pavement (including 100% patching) and triggering a
reconstruction policy when the roughness reached an IRI value of 8. The with project
scenario consisted in executing the overlay and/or reconstruction immediately, carrying
out the routine maintenance policy, and executing another overlay of 5 cm when the
roughness reached an IRI threshold value of 4. For the upgrading/paving sub-project of
Neuquen, the base scenario consisted in grading the unpaved road every six months with
re-graveling as necessary. The with-project case consisted in upgrading and paving the
road immediately, maintaining it and applying a 3 cm thick overlay when roughness
reached an IRI value of 3.5. The ex-post analysis considered maintaining the gravel road
until such time as the paving really took place, and applying the future maintenance
policy and the overlay as before. Economic benefits consisted essentially of vehicle
operating cost savings, including passenger time benefits.

Altogether, a total of 22 sub-projects were analyzed in five of the six participating
provinces. The 22 sub-projects in the sample represented 727 Km, i.e., about 30% of the
2,384 km of roads rehabilitated under the project. Overall, the consolidated Net Present
Value and average Internal Rate of Return for the sample analyzed in these provinces
was US$ 814 m and 166% respectively, compared to appraisal values of US$ 797 m and
49% respectively. Extrapolating the results obtained from the samples to the entire
length of roads rehabilitated in each province under the project, one obtains an estimated
total Net Present Value of US$3,362 m at closing, compared to a total Net Present Value
of US$ 3,143 m at appraisal. These results confirm that the project yielded significant
returns that surpassed those anticipated at appraisal. The high Internal Rates of Return



                                              36

generally obtained for the sub-projects suggest that these results were resilient to any
traffic reductions which may occur during the 20-years analysis period. The Table below
summarizes, province by province, the results of the economic evaluations, both for the
samples analyzed and, by extrapolation, for the full program of works executed under the
project.

Provincial Roads Project.
Loan 4093-AR
Summary Table of Results obteined from the Ex-
post HDM Economic Evaluations
                                        At Appraisal        Ex-Post
Province   Road
           No.  Link           Length kmNPV,                NVP,
                                        US$M      IERR %    US$M        IERR%

Buenos              del
Aires      RO41SM
                Monte-Lobo          39.6   100.86       82.4     106.09    404.9

           RO41Lobos-
                Navarro             26.7    64.58      160.5       63.93   353.4

           RO41Navarro-
                Mercedes            42.3    50.41       80.2       48.49   157.2

           R215 La Plata-
                Brandsen            17.7   107.18      266.4     104.98    409.4

           R215 Brandsen-
                Loma Verde          20.5    92.16      163.6       89.33   256.4

                Loma Verde-
           R215 SM del                40    175.4      170.5     177.03    403.8
                Monte
           RP29Udaquiola-
                Ayacucho            63.9    45.62       44.1       49.32   107.1

           RP51Areco-
                Chivilcoy           41.6    50.94       59.2       48.05     192

           RP51Chivilcoy-25
                de mayo             76.1    64.69       75.3       59.19     210

           Sub-
           total                   368.4   751.84     122.47     746.41    277.1

                Total length
                rehabilitated     1232.5   2515.3                2497.2

Córdoba    RP   Ordoñez - J.
           06   Posse               17.0    18.21       44.1        1.28    17.2

           RP   J. Posse -
           06   Monte Buey          25.9    22.31       39.1       28.60    48.4

           RP   Monte Buey -
           06   Inriville           24.1    20.79       38.1       30.29    58.4

           RP   Inriville - Los
           06   Surgentes           21.8     6.99       29.5       10.38    28.5

           Sub-
           total                    88.8     68.3      37.43       70.55   40.26

                Total length
                rehabilitated      525.4   404.11                417.44

CorrientesRP
           126                        41     2.65       25.6        1.42    18.4

           RP
           126                         9      0.8       26.7        0.62      21

           RP
           126                        21     1.87       26.7        1.45    21.1




                                            37

          Sub-
          total                 71    5.32  26.33   3.49  20.17

               Total length
               rehabilitated   144   10.79          7.08

Entre RiosRP   Los Berros-
          11   AoSalto         12.5  0.931   22.9  1.071   23.2

               Total length
               rehabilitated   63.5   4.73          5.44

Neuquen RP 6 km 0- km 25        25    1.73   21.3   1.94   25.8
               km 25-
               Crucero         25.8   1.35   19.6   1.37   21.5
               Catriel
          Sub-
          total                50.8   3.08   20.4   3.31  23.65

               Total length
               rehabilitated  211.7  12.84        113.76

          RP   RN 178-
Santa Fe  28S  Montes de       21.5   2.04   76.9   3.49    86
               Oca
               Esteban
          RP 2 Rams-           44.6   11.8  56.55  21.89   95.9
               Logrono
          RP   km 75.95-
          80S Elisa            48.9  16.73     43  23.44   72.7

               Cañada
          RP   Rosquin-
          66   Carlos          20.3   5.65   33.9  10.68  103.3

               Pellegrini
          Sub-
          total               135.3  36.22   52.6   59.5   89.5

               Total length
               rehabilitated  731.9 195.93        321.86

All            Sub-total
provinces TotalSamples        726.8  797.4  80.83 813.78 166.06

               Total length
               rehabilitated 2383.6 3143.70       3362.78




                                     38

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                  Title                  Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Gerard L. Liautaud     Consultant              LCSTR
Maria Marcela Silva    Sr Transport. Spec.     LCSTR


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived         DO               IP         Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   09/24/1996             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              0.00
2   01/16/1997             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              0.00
3   06/30/1997             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              0.00
4   04/24/1998             Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                            1.01
5   07/15/1998             Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                            2.01
6   10/15/1998             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              3.06
7   01/07/1999             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              5.15
8   04/08/1999             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              9.15
9   12/16/1999             Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             20.04
10 04/12/2000              Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                           26.17
11 04/18/2000              Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                           26.17
12 09/21/2000              Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                           35.94
13 10/11/2000              Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                           35.94
14 02/05/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             41.04
15 02/16/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             41.04
16 07/11/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             64.01
17 11/02/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             82.18
18 01/29/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             85.14
19 05/14/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             85.14
20 07/24/2002              Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                           99.39
21 02/20/2003              Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                          111.71
22 09/29/2003              Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                          120.11
23 04/15/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            161.72
24 05/04/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            167.13
25 05/04/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            167.13
26 11/30/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            216.08
27 04/14/2005              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            244.74
28 12/17/2005              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            280.63


(c) Staff Time and Cost



                                           39

                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

          Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands
                                         No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending
                  FY87                                                       3.73
                  FY88                                                      27.27
                  FY89                                                      40.95
                  FY90                                                       7.93
                  FY91                                                       0.36
                  FY92                                                       3.29
                  FY93                                                      59.85
                  FY94                                                     136.57
                  FY95                                                      84.07
                  FY96                                                       8.87
                  FY97                                                       0.00
                  FY98                                                       0.06
                  FY99                                                       0.00
                  FY00                                                       0.00
                  FY01                                                       0.00
                  FY02                                                       0.00
                  FY03                                                       0.00
                  FY04                                                       0.00
                  FY05                                                       0.00
                  FY06                                                       0.00
                                  Total:                                   372.95
Supervision/ICR
                  FY87                                                       0.00
                  FY88                                                       0.00
                  FY89                                                       0.00
                  FY90                                                       0.00
                  FY91                                                       0.00
                  FY92                                                       0.00
                  FY93                                                       0.00
                  FY94                                                       0.00
                  FY95                                                       0.00
                  FY96                                                      52.24
                  FY97                                                      47.36
                  FY98                                                      76.47
                  FY99                                                      62.62
                  FY00                                     8                58.65
                  FY01                                     7                63.93
                  FY02                                     9                66.17



                                      40

FY03              11     67.74
FY04               9     67.42
FY05              13     69.48
FY06              10     66.04
FY07               7      9.44
        Total:    74    707.56




            41

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Satisfactory




                                         42

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                       43

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  44

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A Borrower Completion Report was submitted to the Bank on October 12, 2006 and is part
of Project Files. The summary of the report is presented below. The Borrower Completion
Report includes a detailed assessment of project achievements compared against the PAD.

The following table summarizes the key costs estimated at appraisal and those actually
achieved for each main project category.

                                  STAFF APPRAISAL ESTIMATES               EXECUTED
      Project Components
                                    LOCAL            IBRD    TOTAL    LOCAL  IBRD    TOTAL


REHABILITATION WORKS       223.0                   149.0   372.0    78.2     197.0 275.2


PAVING                     157.0                   104.0   261.0    24.1     54.9  79.0


INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                12.0                    8.0     20.0     0.2      0.8   1.0


CONSULTANTS AND
TRAINING                   18.0                    12.0    30.0     0.0      7.9   7.9


PROJECT MANAGEMENT         3.0                     2.0     5.0      0.0      4.6   4.6


ROUTINE MAINTENANCE        402.0                   268.0   670.0    757.4    0.0   757.4


UNDISBURSED                0.0                     0.0     0.0      0.3      1.0   1.3



SUB TOTAL                  815.0                   543.0   1,358.0  860.2    266.2 1,126.4



HEALTH EMERGENCY
COMPONENT                  0.0                     0.0     0.0      0.0      18.0  18.0


FLOOD PROTECTION WORKS 0.0                         0.0     0.0      4.8      12.3  17.1



TOTAL PROJECT COST         815.0                   543.0   1,358.0  865.0    296.5 1,161.5



CONTINGENCIES              85.0                    57.0    142.0    0.0      3.4   3.4

TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES 900.0                     600.0   1,500.0  865.0    299.9 1,164.9




The following table includes the targets and main achievements by project component:


                                           45

                       INDICATORS          MTR           TARGETS           ACHIEVED
PROGRAM/                                   AGREED        AGREED AT
OBJECTIVES                                 TARGETS       3rd
                                                         AMENDMENT
SUBSIDIARY
AGREEMENTS
Subproject             Number of           7             6                 6
Evaluation             approved
                       subprojects         7             6                 6
Signed subsidiary      Signed subsidiary
agreements             agreements
                                           300,0         282,0             277,6
Disbursements          US$ million
PHYSICAL
TARGETS

Rehabilitation         Executed (km)       2,475         2,475             2.533,6

Routine                Pothole repair      481           481               671
maintenance            (1000 m2)
                       Levelling (1000     1,226         1,226             2,335
Upgrading and          km)                 16,166        16,166            16,769
paving                 Road marking (km) 675             675               404.2
                       Executed (km)
INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
Network surveys        Length surveyed     47,800        47,800            47,943.6
                       (km)
Maintenance                                80%           80%               0%
management             % contracted        4,043         4,043             5,594
                       DPV staff
Training                                   2,638         2,638             10,645
                       Trained staff-weeks
NETWORK
CONDITION

Paved roads            Ave. roughness      3             3                 2.60
Unpaved roads          (IRI)               8             8                 8.56
                       Ave. roughness
                       (IRI)

The Borrower Completion report includes a detailed assessment of the key project impacts
which are summarized below:

1. Institutional Impact



                                          46

1.1 Environmental management. The creation of 14 environmental management units (UAs)
in an equal number of provinces allowed the Project to incorporate environmental and social
dimensions of road management in the country. During the project implementation, 6 of
these UAs in the participating provinces had a satisfactory performance and a global impact.
The UAs processed 120 no objections of environmental assessments and 106 no objections
for specific bidding documents following the environmental manual prepared for the
Project. Several public audiences were carried out to endorse the multi-annual road
management programs undertaken in the affected Provinces.

1.2 Additional key impacts include: (i) five national-level congresses of environmental
management units were carried out successfully. There meetings have advanced the
environmental management practices in the country and served as a stimulus to the
personnel staffing such units in the participating and non-participating Provinces, (ii) good
integration of environmental management with the planning and study capabilities in each
province, and (iii) regional expertise on environmental management.

1.3 Capacity Building. The Project exceeded the training targets by implementing a very
broad capacity building program that achieved the training of 4,730 professionals and
technicians, including a total of 10,645 staff-weeks of training. On average trainees
received 2.25 weeks per course.

1.4 Institutional Strengthening (contract with INOCSA). Despite implementation problems
that resulted after the devaluation in 2002, the consultancy service contract achieved in the
participating Provinces the training of management in modern road administration,
implementated management tools (e.g., HDM-III), developed IT and communications
networks in Neuquen and assisted the development in Cordoba and Corrientes, installed a
road network management system in 3 Provinces and Cordoba is very advanced, and
initiated an integrated administrative management system in the participating Provinces.

2. Sustainability of the Project

2.1 The sustainability is rated as likely. Nevertheless, the macroeconomic conditions in
Argentina have been redefined recently so it is necessary to test the institutional capacity
under the new environment to ensure the funding for road sector development and
management. The Provinces will need continued support to ensure that: (i) provincial level
budgets ensure adequate funding of maintenance, (ii) road condition databases are updated
and maintained, (iii) processing of information is done in time allowing the use of modern
management tools installed during the Project, (iv) adequate technical standards continue to
be adopted in the Provinces to ensure efficiency of resource use, (v) procurement continues
to be improved, and (vi) training and institution building efforts are continued.

3. Performance of the Borrower and the Bank

3.1 During preparation and implementation, the Borrower's performance has been
satisfactory. There has been a high degree of commitment from the central coordination unit



                                              47

and the Provincial level units in the implementation of this Project.

3.2 The performance of the Bank is assessed as satisfactory. The Borrower assess the
project design as simple and coherent with the capabilities of the Government and
participating Provinces.

4. Lessons Learned.

The Borrower Completion Report includes some lessons learned which are summarized
below.
Regarding the physical component the Provinces coincided in stating that the network
surveys were systematic and satisfactory. Even though equipment was purchased, and
modern management tools were implemented, these methodologies are used primarily to
evaluate investments which are financed with external resources. In many locally financed
projects, the current practice is to evaluate them using the traditional AASHTO
methodology.

Regarding the institutional development component, the provinces indicate that this is
probably the most successful component, and they highlight the importance of the human
resource development through an ambitious training program.




                                               48

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    49

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, August 14, 1996
Loan Agreement, April 17, 1997
Quarterly Progress Reports and Annual Audit Reports
"Auditoría, Emergencia Sanitaria"
Technical Reports
Roughness Measurement Reports, June 2005 and December 2006
Amendments (June 1, 2002, October 16, 2002, and July 16, 2004)
"Informe de Cierre, Ministerio de Planificación Federal, Inversión Pública y Servicios,
Octubre 12, 2006"




                                           50

MAP




       51

