Page  1
June 1, 2000
Mr. José Luis Machinea
Ministro de Economía
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 4093-AR (Provincial Roads Project) Amendment 
to the Loan Agreement and Implementation Letter
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the 
Borrower), dated April 17, 1997 (the Loan Agreement), as well as to the 
Implementation Letter of even date therewith, both with regard to the 
above-captioned Loan.  We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your 
request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the 
Loan Agreement and Implementation Letter as set forth below.
LOAN AGREEMENT
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended by:  
(a)
deleting the word "and" at the end of paragraph (l) thereof; 
(b)
replacing the period at the end of paragraph (m) thereof with the 
word "; and"; and 
(c)
inserting a new paragraph (n) therein, immediately after paragraph 
(m) thereof, to read as follows in its entirety:  
"(n)
"CREMA Contract" means a multi-year contract, entered into 
by a DPV with a private sector contractor, which contract obligates the 
private 
sector contractor to undertake all phases of road works referred 
to in Part A.1 
(a) of the Project as a single package on behalf of the 
relevant Eligible 
Province, from design and programming of the works, 
through the execution of 
such works, with respect to a given 
Subproject.".
2.
Section 3.01 (a) (ii) is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  
"cause each Eligible Province, through the corresponding DPV and 
under the respective SLA (as described in paragraph (b) below), to carry  out a 
Subproject (whether or not a CREMA Contract is used) with due 
diligence and 
efficiency in accordance with the Operational Manual, and 
in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, technical, administrative, 
financial, ecological and 
environmental practices (including the 
environmental, resettlement and 
indigenous peoples’ standards and 
guidelines referred to in Part A.1 (c) 
of the Project); shall take or 
cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to 
enable each Eligible Province to carry out the 
corresponding Subproject;  and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent 
or interfere with the carrying out of such 
Subproject.".
3.
Section 7.01 is hereby amended by deleting the words "and Public Works and 
Services".
4.
Section 7.02 is hereby amended by deleting the words "y Obras y Servicios 
Públicos".
5.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by:
(a)
replacing the word "Works:" in Category (1) thereof with the words 
"Works (except as covered by Category (4) below):";
Page  2
(b)
replacing the figure "50%" in Category (1) thereof with the figure 
"75%";
(c)
replacing the figure "25,000,000" in Category (4) thereof with the 
figure "10,000,000"; and
(d)
inserting the following new Category (5) immediately after Category 
(4) thereof, to read as follows in its entirety:
"(4)
Works under
15,000,000
75%".
CREMA
Contracts
6.
Paragraph 1 (a) in Schedule 5 is hereby amended by replacing the words 
"(1) through (3)" with the words "(1), (2), (3) and (5)".
IMPLEMENTATION LETTER
7.
The Annex of the Implementation Letter is hereby amended to read in its 
entirety as set forth in the Attachment hereto.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be 
executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your 
confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions 
of this amendment letter will become effective as of January 1, 2000 upon 
receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander
Director
Country Management Unit
for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ José Luis Machinea
Date: November 3, 2000
