Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4093-AR
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Roads Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 17, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4093-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 1997 between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applcable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
Page  2
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations.".
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CEU" means the central executing unit in the Subsecretariat for 
Assistance to the Provinces (Subsecretara de Asistencia a las Provincias - SAP) within 
the Borrower's Ministry of the Interior, or any successor thereto, identified in 
Presidential Decrees Nos. 202, 1732 and 1778 (Decretos Presidenciales) of the 
Borrower, dated January 30, 1991, September 18, 1992 and August 24, 1993, respectively 
(as affected by Presidential Decree No. 1410 dated December 3, 1996);
(b)
"DPV" means the Provincial Road Department (Direccin Provincial de 
Vialidad) within the Ministry of Public Works of an Eligible Province or any other 
entity (with similar functions and responsibilities) within the Executive Power of an 
Eligible Province which does not have a Provincial Road Department;
(c)
"Eligible Province" means a province of the Borrower which: (i) either: 
(A) maintains a current account surplus and meets debt service criteria (as specified 
in more detail in the Operational Manual) for purposes of carrying out a Subproject 
(under Part A.1 of the Project); or (B) is implementing (in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank) the reforms under a Transformation Fund Agreement (as such term is defined 
in Section 1.02 (n) of the Loan Agreement dated March 24, 1995 entered into between 
the Borrower and the Bank - Loan No. 3836-AR) or under a similar agreement 
satisfactory to the Bank for purposes of carrying out a Subproject (under Part A.1 of 
the Project) which will not finance the construction of roads under a Road Program; 
and/or (ii) meets the additional eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual to carry out a Subproject;
(d)
"EU" means any of the units referred to in Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement;
(e)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank indicating the Project's general indicators and targets;
(f)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank (adopted 
by: (i) the Borrower through a resolution issued by the Subsecretary of SAP; and (ii) 
the Eligible Provinces), which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the criteria for Eligible 
Provinces to participate in the carrying out of Subprojects, including a detailed 
description of the criteria referred to in paragraph (c) above; (ii) the criteria and 
methodology for appraising and selecting Sub-projects, including the policy, criteria, 
procedures and the general road environmental, resettlement and indigenous peoples' 
standards and guidelines to be followed in reviewing and approving Road Programs; 
(iii) the timetables related to procurement, disbursement and execution of the works 
under the Project; (iv) the minimum terms and conditions of a model SLA; (v) the terms 
of reference of the surveys to be carried out under Section 3.10 (a) (i) of this 
Agreement; and (vi) the guidelines and specifications to be followed by each DPV in 
the establishment of the respective computerized management system referred to in 
paragraph 3 (b) (i) (D) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such manual may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
(g)
"PMU" means any of the units referred to in Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement;
(h)
"Road Program" means an Eligible Province's annual road program 
consisting of: (i) rehabilitation, resurfacing and maintenance of the paved and 
unpaved road network; (ii) upgrading of paved roads and earth roads (including paving 
of earth roads) within the road network of such Eligible Province; and (iii) 
construction of roads, including the technical, economic and  environmental 
information of each work to be carried out under such program, as such program may be 
Page  3
amended from time to time with the agreement of the CEU;
(i)
"RSU" means the subunit referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
 
(j)
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan to be provided under a SLA; 
 
(k)
"SLA" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(m)
"Subproject" means any of the projects referred to in Part A of the 
Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred million 
Dollars ($300,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982 excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which 
may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this 
Section.
Page  4
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08.  The Subsecretary of SAP (or such other person or persons as such 
Subsecretary shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i)
carry out Part B of the Project through the CEU, with due 
diligence and efficiency in accordance with the Operational 
Manual, and in conformity with appropriate engineering, technical, 
financial, administrative, ecological and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for such Part of the 
Project; and
(ii)
cause each Eligible Province, through the corresponding DPV and 
under the respective SLA (as described in paragraph (b) below), to 
carry out a Subproject with due diligence and efficiency in 
accordance with the Operational Manual, and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, technical, administrative, financial, 
ecological and environmental practices, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
each Eligible Province to carry out the corresponding Subproject, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such Subproject.
(b)
In order to enable an Eligible Province to carry out a Subproject, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
present to the Bank, for its approval, a Subproject application 
(which shall include, inter alia, the plan to implement the 
activities to be carried out under such Subproject) in the form 
set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(ii)
if such application is approved by the Bank, onlend through a 
Subsidiary Loan to such Eligible Province a portion of the 
Page  5
proceeds of the Loan under a subsidiary loan agreement (the SLA) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and such Eligible Province 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia:
(A)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be used for the financing of such 
Subproject and shall be repaid within a period of up to 15 
years, including up to 5 years of grace;
(B)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in Dollar 
equivalents and the amounts withdrawn thereunder and 
outstanding (together with interest and other charges 
thereon) shall be payable in the same currency in which the 
corresponding principal amount of the Loan and interest and 
other charges thereon are to be paid by the Borrower to the 
Bank pursuant to Article IV of the General Conditions;
(C)
the Subsidiary Loan shall carry the same interest rate 
applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower shall allocate the commitment charge applicable 
to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement 
proportionately among the Eligible Provinces according to 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(E)
the corresponding Eligible Province shall undertake the 
pertinent obligations referred to in Articles III and IV of 
this Agreement, including the obligation of such Eligible 
Province to provide the necessary counterpart funds to carry 
out the corresponding Subproject in accordance with the 
specific indicators and targets set forth in the approved 
Subproject application; and
(F)
the Subsidiary Loan may be suspended and its maturity 
accelerated if the events referred to in Article V of this 
Agreement shall occur.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each SLA in such a manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, suspend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any SLA or any 
provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation to paragraph (a) of this Section and the specific 
indicators and targets for each Eligible Province (as mentioned in paragraph (b)(E) 
above), the Borrower shall, and shall cause each Eligible Province to, carry out Part 
B of the Project and the corresponding Subproject, respectively, in accordance with 
the Project's general indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation Letter. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall cause each Eligible Province pursuant to the 
provisions of the SLA to carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project.
Page  6
Section 3.05. (a)  The Borrower shall continue to operate and maintain the CEU 
during Project implementation with staffing, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, those responsibilities mentioned in 
Part B of the Project.
(b)
In monitoring the execution of the Project, the Borrower, through the 
CEU, shall utilize the computerized Project monitoring system referred to in Section 
6.01 (d) of this Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a)  The Borrower shall operate and maintain within the CEU, a 
road subunit (the RSU) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
including, inter alia, the responsibility of assisting the CEU in the overall 
coordination and monitoring of the execution of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the RSU is at all times headed by a 
coordinator assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall cause each Eligible Province to establish 
within its DPV, and thereafter operate and maintain, an environmental unit (the EU) 
during Project implementation, with staff, functions and responsibilities satisfactory 
to the Bank.
Section 3.08. (a)  The Borrower shall cause each Eligible Province to establish, 
and thereafter operate and maintain, a management unit (the PMU) during Project 
implementation, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
including, inter alia, the responsibility of assisting the respective DPV in carrying 
out the corresponding Subproject.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each Eligible Province to ensure that its PMU is 
operated at all times during Project implementation in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
Section 3.09.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than thirty days after the end of 
each calendar quarter of each year during Project implementation, starting in 1996, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request with respect to the progress made by each Eligible Province and 
the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, respectively, during the 
calendar quarter preceding the date of presentation of the report in question.
Section 3.10. (a)  The Borrower shall: (i) not later than April 30 of each year 
during Project implementation, starting in 1997, cause each Eligible Province to carry 
out a survey of the surface and structural condition and traffic volumes of, and 
accidents occurred in, such Eligible Province's road network in accordance with the 
terms of reference set forth in the Operational Manual; and (ii) not later than July 
31 of each year during Project implementation, starting in 1997, and without 
limitations to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, cause each 
Eligible Province to prepare and present, through the CEU, to the Bank, for its review 
and comments: (A) a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably 
request with respect to the results of the survey mentioned in (i) herein for the year 
in question; and (B) the Road Program for the calendar year following the date of 
presentation of such program.
(b)
As a result of the review referred to in (a) (ii) above, the Bank may 
provide to the CEU comments with respect to each specific investment within the Road 
Program.  If so, the Borrower, through the CEU, shall incorporate such comments in 
approving such investments.
Section 3.11. (a)  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank not later than 
December 31, 1998 the progress made by the Borrower and each Eligible Province in: (i) 
carrying out each Part of the Project under their responsibility; and (ii) achieving 
the objectives of the Project.
(b)
As part of the review referred to in (a) above, the Bank may require that 
the Borrower prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in 
Project implementation.  If so, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish such action 
plan to the Bank not later than thirty days after the conclusion of such review and 
shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance 
with its terms.
Page  7
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
Eligible Provinces and the departments or agencies of the Borrower (including the CEU) 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request; and
(iv)
in addition, cause the reports of such auditors to include 
separate opinions on the compliance by the Borrower and the 
Eligible Provinces with the obligations set forth or referred to 
in this Agreement, the Operational Manual and the corresponding 
SLAs, with specific references in compliance with procurement 
requirements and the application of the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Any of the Eligible Provinces shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the corresponding SLA. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that an Eligible Province will be able to perform its obligations under the 
corresponding SLA.
Page  8
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower through a 
resolution issued by the Subsecretary of SAP; 
(b)
that at least one SLA has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and an 
Eligible Province, as provided in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
that all action, satisfactory to the Bank, has been taken by the Borrower 
in order to permit the procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan for Part B of the Project in accordance with the provisions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement; and
(d)
that a computerized Project monitoring system, satisfactory to the Bank, 
has been established by the CEU. 
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
that the SLA referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the corresponding Eligible Province 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and such Eligible Province in accordance with 
its terms; and
(b)
that all action referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement has 
been taken.
Section 6.03. The date July 16, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economa y Obras
   y Servicios Pblicos
Hiplito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  9
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Benjamn Fernandez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
                                Dollar               to be
     Category                 Equivalent)           Financed
(1)  Works:                                       50%
     (a)  Rehabilitation and  160,000,000
          Resurfacing
     (b)  Upgrading and Paving 80,000,000
(2)  Goods                      5,000,000         100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  80% of local
                                                  expenditures
(3)  Consultants' Services                        100%
     and Training:
     (a)  under Part A of
          the Project          25,000,000
     (b)  under Part B of
          the Project           5,000,000
(4)  Unallocated               25,000,000
          TOTAL               300,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  10
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants' 
services) made in connection with the training activities under the Project, including 
tuition fees, and per diems and travel costs of the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) through (3) of the table in paragraph 1 above on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 30, 1995; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures with respect to a Subproject unless:
 
(i)
the corresponding Eligible Province has:
 
(A)
entered into the respective SLA as provided in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement;
(B)
adopted the Operational Manual;
 
(C)
taken all action, satisfactory to the Bank, in order to 
permit such Eligible Province to carry out the procurement 
of goods and services to be financed under the Loan for such 
Subproject in accordance with the provisions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement;
(D)
established within the respective DPV a computerized 
management system in accordance with the guidelines and 
specifications set forth in the Operational Manual to 
monitor the implementation of the respective Subproject;
(E)
established a PMU as provided in Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement;
(F)
adopted road environmental, resettlement and indigenous 
people's standards and guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 
amended the general conditions applicable to road 
engineering and works contracts (to be entered into between 
such Eligible Province and third parties) in accordance with 
such road environmental, resettlement and indigenous 
people's standards and guidelines; and
(G)
established an EU and staffed such unit as provided in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement; and
(ii)
counsel for the Borrower and the corresponding Eligible Province, 
acceptable to the Bank, has each furnished to the Bank an opinion 
or opinions stating that:
(A)
the respective SLA has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and such Eligible Province and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and such Eligible Province in 
accordance with its terms;
(B)
that all action referred to in (i) (C) herein has been 
taken; and
(C)
that the respective PMU referred to in (i) (E) herein has 
been established;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under any Road Program included in a 
Subproject (under Part A.1 of the Project) unless the CEU has approved the works to be 
carried out by the  Corresponding Eligible Province under any such Road Program for 
the respective year in accordance with the policy, criteria, standards and guidelines 
referred to in the Operational Manual and paragraph 3 (b) (i) (F) of this Schedule and 
Page  11
as provided in Section 3.10 (b) of this Agreement; and
(d)
payments made for expenditures under any training program included in a 
Subproject unless the CEU has approved such program in accordance with the policy and 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under:
(a)
contracts for goods costing less than $350,000 equivalent;
 
(b)
contracts for works costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent;
 
(c)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent;
(d)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent; and 
(e)
for Training under the Project, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to develop and implement Road Programs in 
each Eligible Province in order to improve: (i) the efficiency of the use of resources 
in the road sector; and (ii) the service ability of the road network; and (b) to 
reorganize the DPVs and strengthen their technical, environmental and  management 
capacity in order to, inter alia, implement Road Programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
 
1.
Carrying out of a project in each Eligible Province which consist of the 
following components: 
(a)
(i)
preparation of Road Programs (which, includes, inter alia, the 
carrying out of engineering designs, economic analyses and 
environmental assessments of the works); and
(ii)
implementation and monitoring of Road Programs (which includes, 
inter alia, the supervision of the works) in accordance with the 
criteria, methodology, indicators and targets set forth in the 
Operational Manual and the corresponding SLA, including the 
provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition 
and utilization of the equipment required therefor;
(b)
carrying out of a review of the maintenance strategy and management 
system of the corresponding DPV in order to gradually transfer to the private sector 
and/or delegate to local entities or private consortia such DPV's road maintenance 
functions, and thereafter, if needed, strengthen such management system, including the 
provision of technical assistance and training required therefor; and
(c)
implementation of the road environmental, resettlement and indigenous 
people's standards and guidelines referred to in the Operational Manual and paragraph 
3 (b) (i) (F) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and thereafter, strengthen the 
management capacity of the corresponding DPV's environmental units in order to carry 
out, inter alia, road environmental assessments, including the provision of technical 
assistance and training required therefor.
2.
Carrying out of a project in each Eligible Province which consist of the 
components referred to in Part A.1 above with the exception of the implementation of 
Road Programs referred to in Part A.1 (a) (ii) above.
Part B:
Project Management of the CEU
 
Strengthening of the CEU, through the provision of technical assistance in order 
Page  12
to assist the CEU to: (a) provide assistance to each Eligible Province in the 
preparation, appraisal, implementation and monitoring of Subprojects; and (b) 
coordinate and monitor the execution of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2002
15,000,000
 
through September 15, 2011
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to 
the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
Page  13
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 equivalent or more each and 
$5,000,000 equivalent or more each, respectively.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent but less than 
$350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $260,000,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with paragraphs (a) 
and (b) herein, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used standard bidding documents 
acceptable to the Bank.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
 
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $350,000 per contract or per 
bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,000,000, may be procured 
under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
Page  14
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the 
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract to be awarded under Part B of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $7,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals [from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions] shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000.
Page  15
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower  of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
Page  16
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
