FILE CWY                                   tESTRICTED
Report No.      PS-lla
This repont is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibUity for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
SENEGAL
June 7, 1972
Special Projects Department



CUPRENCY EQUIVAIENTS
Currency Unit  -  Franc CFA (CFAF)
CFAF 1,000     -  US$3.91
US$1           - CFAF 255.8
Fiscal Year       July 1 - June 30
Weights and Measures:  Metric System
1 meter        m 3.28 feet
1 kilometer    -  0.62 miles
1 square meter -  10.76 square feet
1 hectare      a 2.47 acres
Abbreviations - Acronyms
OHLM  - Office des Habitations A Loyer Mod6r6
CCCE  - Caisse Centrale pour la CoopArstion Economique
Agency of the Republic of France
BNDB  - Banque Nationals de D6veloppement du Senigal
SICAP - Socift6 Immobilire du Cap Vert
DPH   - Direction de la Promotion Humaine
DUH   - Direction de l'Urbanime et de l'Habitat



SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  . .......... ... ...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .           i-iv
I.     INTRODUCTION  ..............*....*......*..*..*..          **..*........ **.....*...*........  1
II.    BACKGROUND  .................................. 
A.     Senegal  Urban Sector  ............                            .. .....   *.          1
B.    Dakar  Metropolitan  Area  ..................... . -                   . ....          2
CA.      h     ies  . . ............... ... ............                           . . .     4
III.    APPROACHES TO THE PROBLEM  ...........................................                         5
IV.     TIE PROJECT  ..............................                         .............             9
A.    General  Description  .."............................      .........*.......           9
B.     Detailed  Features  . .. . .                         . . . . . ......... . . .....   10
C.     Design Standards  .....................................                              12
D.     Cost  Estlzates and  Financial  Arrangements  ...o .........                         12
E .    Execution  . . ....0   0. ...... .    .   a .  .........a....... ..a... .. . ... ........ 0        14
V.    ORGANIZATION  AND MANAGEMENT oo .   ... .    ..o.o..   .....*.o. ... . . .. .9... . .   .    17
A.     The Borrower and  the Executing Agency-OHLM                          ...........     17
B.    Project  Management  and Maintenance                          ...................     18
C.     Financing Plan  for the Project  ... o ...................                          19
VI.     SOCIO-ECONOMIC  BENEFITS  .... .... . . . . . . . . . . . ........... .o.                   22
VII.      RECOMMENDATIONS  .....ooo............................ .. ... .                              26
This report was prepared by Messrs. J. Yenny (Economist), N. Carrere (Engineer)
and L. Moss (Urban and Regional Planner) of the Special Projects Department.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.  Metropolitan Dakar - Demography
2. Dakar Employment and Income
3.   Estimate of Needs for Site and Services Plots
4.   Urban Transport
5.   Site Plan
6.   Technical Assistance
7.   Project Elementa and Cost Estimates - Dakar
8.   Project Elements and Cost Estimates - ThieB
9.   Cosmunity Development
10. Conditions of Tenure and Payment
11. Building Code and Building Permits
12. Calculation of Monthly Payments for Lots
13. Residential Environmental Conditions - Metropolitan Dakar
TABLES
1.   1970 Shore of Dakar (Cap Vert) in the Modern Sector of the Economy
2.   Estimate of Distribution of General Revenues from Dakar (Cap Vert)
and Rest of Country 1968/69
3.   Estimate of Distribution of Investments in Dakar (Cap Vert) and
Rest of Country - Total for the 1966-71 Period
4~.  Dakar Residential Environmental Conditions - 1969
5.   Dakar Housing Characteristics - 1969
6.  Dakar Income Distribution by District - 1969
7.   Residential Environmental Conditions in Dakar Urban Area - 1969 (Summary)
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursementa
9.   Implementation Schedule
10. OHLM - Site and Services Directorate:  Project Income Statement 1973-82
11.  OHIM - Site and Services Directorate:  Project Sources and Application of
Funds 1973-82
12.  OHIM - Site and Servicea Directorate:  Project Balance Sheet 1973-82
13. Government Investments in Urban Infrastructure in Dakar (Cap Vert) 1967-71
14. Housing and Related Infrastructure Investment Programs in Dakar With and
Without the Project
15. Project Costs and Rental Value
16.  Dakar Average Monthly Household Kxpenditures by District - 1969
CHART
1.   Organization Chart of OHLM
MAPS
1.   Senegal
2.   Dakar - Land Use
3.   Thies - Land Use
4.   Dakar - Residential Environmental Conditions 1969
5.   Dakar - Project Phasing
6.   Dakar - Project Land Use Scheme
7.  Dakar - Project Detailed Land Use Scheme
8.  Dakar - Project Site Plan



SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Senegal, like Most poor developing countries, is faced with the
problem of rapid urbanization. Some 30% of the 3.8 million population is now
living in urban centers. While total population is growing at 2.2%, the
urban population is expanding by about 4.5% annually, despite evidence that
urban unemployment is high and rising. Dakar, the capital city, with a popula-
tion of 550,000 in 1970 growing at the estimated rate of 6%, has a particular-
ly high unemployment rate. The second largest city, Thies, has a population
of 100,000 growing at a rate of 5%. Urban housing is in very short supply,
squatter settlements are proliferating and growing more crowded. Urban ser-
vices are increasingly inadequate to meet the needs of the growing urban popu-
lation.
ii.       Given the prevailing circumstances, there appears little prospect
for rapid alleviation in the basic trends of urban growth and unemployment de-
spite Government emphasis on rural development programs.
iii.      Although the per capita GDP in Dakar is much higher than in the
countryside - $580 compared to $130 - most of the wealth is concentrated in
the hands of a small segment of the population. As much as 80% of the urban
families appear to have incomes too low to meet payments on public housing.
However, about half of these have incomes steady and sufficient enough to
meet charges for serviced lots while building homes by self-help methods.
iv.       The past approach to urban housing has concentrated on the construc-
tion of units for higher income groups. Attention to poorer groups has
been limited, consisting primarily of relocation of residents of squatter set-
tlements being eradicated. As the public housing authority (OGHM) uses funds
collected by a housing tax from regularly employed persons to finance its con-
struction, many lower income residents have, in effect, been subsidizing hous-
ing for higher income families.
V.        In view of the very limited resources available, both public and
private, no significant'alleviation of the housing situation appears possible
without a greater concentration on self-help house construction . Self-help
would also contribute considerably to employment. A program for "site and
services" to provide urban building lots with adequate facilities and services
on a scale sufficient both to offset the needs of the growing urban population
and to reduce the housing backlog appears indicated. At least in the first
instance, such a program should focus on the income group that can afford to
meet the costs of the serviced lots while retaining sufficient income to con-
struct self-help housing. The contribution of the Government would thereby be



-ii-
minimized, freeing resources for other purposes including amelioration
of existing squatter settlements. If undertaken on a significant scale,
such a program would also reduce pressures in squatter settlements and
indirectly aid the poorest groups residing in these settlements. A
lower priority is indicated for the public housing program. Until the
total stock of housing and level of resources are considerably increased,
the net benefits of eradication of existing squatter settlements must
be considered doubtful. The Government has indicated it will investigate
means of improving these settlements in situ.
vi.       The Government has approached the Bank for assistance in financing
a major site and services project for two cities, Dakar and Thies. The
project would provide urbanized lots for 14,000 families in Dakar, and
1,600 in Thies. These lots and related social facilities would be con-
structed over a 5-year period with technical advisory assistance provided
both by IDA and by the United Nations Development Program. It would also
include a pilot project to improve 10 ha of a squatter settlement in Dakar.
vii.      The project would cost an estimated US$12.9 million equivalent,
of which US$8.0 million equivalent would be financed by an IDA credit. It
would comprise the following e-lements:
(a)  proviaion and preparation of land for housing construction.
draining, grading, and plotting of 400 ha in Dakar for
14,000 lots and 60 ha in Thies for 1,600 lots;
(b)  equipping the project areas with low-cost public facilities:
local vehicular and pedestrian roads, a power distribution
network, and two types of water and sanitation systems
(public fountains and pit privies for 85% of the lots and
private connections and septic tanks for the remainder);
(a)  constructing and equipping schools and health centers:
12 primary schools, 4 secondary schools, and 4 health
centers in Dakar; 2 primary schools and 1 health center
in Thies;
(d)  providing urbanized sites within the project area
for community development activities, such as recreational,
cultural, commercial, small-scale industrial,, and additional
educational facilities;
(e)  extension of primary infrastructure to and through project
areas: arterial highway, high tension power lines and water
mains;
(f)  provision of technical assistance to aid in the preparation
of the detailed engineering, management, and training programs
necessary to project implementation and the formulation of a
continuing national site and services program, and funds for
short-term consultant work;
(g)  construction of extensions of the primary highway, water and
electricity networks to and through the project areas; and



-iii-
(h)  provision of consultants to develop criteria to
assist the Government in identifying squatter settle-
ments that can be improved in situ, together with a
pilot project for improvingT0haof an existing
squatter settlement in central Dakar.
viii.     The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million would cover 7Q% of
the total net costs of the project of US$10.1 million excluding the esti-
mated duties and-taxes of US$2.8 million.  The credit would not finance land
acquisition and primary infrastructure extension.. It would meat the full
foreign exchange cost of the other project elements of US$5.1 million and also
finance up to US$2.9 million, or about 66% of the total net local currency
cost of US$4.4 million equivalent excluding the duties and taxes. The Government
would finance the foreign exchange component of the extension oA primary infra-
structure to the project areas estimated at cone US$0.4 million and US$4.3 Mn.llion
equivalent of local currency cost including US$2.8 milliLon for duties and taxes.
In addition, the Government would provide land for the project already in its
possession. UNDP would finance technical assistance estimated at US$0.1
million.
ix.       To encourage participation of local contractors, separate civil
works contracts would be drawn up for the various functional components:
(a) site preparation and streets, (b) water distribution, (c) electrification,
(d) septic tanks and public lavatories, (e) schools, and (f) health facili-
ties. Construction contracts would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding and contractors would be given the option to bid for any
or all the components for both Dakar and Thies. Contractors would be en-
couraged to hire among those families with occupancy permits for the project
sites.
X.        The executing agency for the project would be OHLM. Although
operating since 1959 to develop urban and rural housing, its professional
staff of 120 Senegalese has had little training, which means most engineering
and accounting work must be done by expatriate staff members who work in
Senegal for only short periods of one or two years. The project provides
technical assistants for OHLM to aid in project execution and the training
of governmental counterparts in how to execute a continuing national site
and services program after project completion.
xi.       Tenants of the project sites would generally buy their lots
by installment paymenta covering the cost of oite preparation, intereat,
management and water service charges. The total capital charge to tenants
would amount to $290 in Dakar for a lot without prirate water or electricity
connections, $120 in Thies for a aimilar lot. Payments would be spread over
15 years with interest at 7%. The net receipts, after allowing for management
expenses, would be deposited by OHLM in an invest.nnt fund to mupport continusd
provision of site and services for lower-inccre urben residents.  Over the 18=
year repayment period for project sites, this frnd should receive a net
total of US7.0 million.



- iv -
xii.      The project provides a lower cost approach to housing than public
housing programs. Over the next 5 years, it is estimated that over 20,000
housing units would be produced with the project investment in infraatructure
for self-help construction versus some 12,500 without. Total costs of
producing the 20,000 units with the project,including the estimated value of
self-help,would be roughly equal to the cost of producing 12,500 without the
project. However, public investiant with the project would be some 25% lower.
The project thus not only provides a lesa expensive way to produce housing
than the public housing program, but it shifts more of the burden of the State
into the private sector. It is difficult to quantify the economic benefits
that would result from the project investment and therefore to calculate a
standard economic rate of return.  However, housing is an economic service
for which people are prepared to pay and the rental value of housing that the
project would assist in generating gives some masure of the economic benefits.
Likely rental values for housing generated by the project calculated on the
basis of available information on rents for similar housing in Dakar would
give a rate of return of 18.0% on a total investment of US$21.4 million in-
cluding land value and self-help labor.
xiii.     The project would have an important direct impact on employment.
Society would also gain indirectly from the greater control Goverrnment
would obtain over growth of the two cities by this major investment in
their most rapidly growing areas and the related reduction of need for
illegal shelter in older districts. Significant social benefits would
be derived from the project, as lower income families would enjoy environ-
mental standards superior to those presently available to them which would
contribute to better health conditions. Technical assistance and training
programs would also assist them in improving their economic and social
welfare.
xiv.      This project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$8.0 million
equivalent.



SENIGAL
APPRAISAL OF A SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Gover,nent of Senegal has requested Bank assistance in
financing the construction of a Site and Services Project designed to
accoimwdate 14,000 lower income families in Dakar, the capital of Senegal,
and 1,600 lower incomc families in Thies., the second city in importance and
one of the six regional capitals of the country. The project involves an
innovative and realistic approach to housing lower income groups of the
urban population by stimulating self-help construction of housing through
provision of serviced building lots and related social services and
technical assistance. The locations would be easily accessible to centers
of employment by public transport and the projeot itself is labor intensive.
To assist the Government in developing alternatives to the wholesale
eradication of squatter settleents, the project also includes a pilot
project for the improvement of 10 ha of an existing settlement.
1.02      The Government approached the Bank Group in September 1970 to
consider lending for this project.  Banic md8sions in March, July and
September 1971 assisted the Government in preparing the project. In this
work the Bank was aided by information from a UNDP-financed study for the
Dakar Water 'and Sewerage Master Plan and a Bank-sponsored study of the global
experience with site and services. Although the Bank study is not yet com-
pleted and information on the subject has proven to be quite limited,
preliminary information on the experience of the 32 countries that have under-
taken some form of site and services has been useful in designing the project.
In particular, the study was influential in developing recommendations for
(a) facilities standards, (b) location and design of sites, and (c) recipient
charges, subsidies and debt recuperation.
1.03      This report is based on the information supplied by the Government
and the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. J. Tewny (Chief
of Mission), N. Carrere and L. M1ss, who visited Senegal in November/bAecember
1971 . The appraisal mission was also assisted by Mr. R. 1'hrrill of the U N-
Centre for Housing, Building and Planning, and Mr. A. Van Dort (Consultant).
1.04      The project cost is estimated at US$12.9 million equivalent for
which IDA financing of US$8.0 million is reoomended.
II. BACKGROUNU
A. Senegal Urban Sector
2.01      In Senegal, problems of rapid urbanization are typical of most of
the poor developing countries.   A large backlog exists of both housing and
of related infrastructure needs. Growth of squatter settlements without services



- 2 -
is rapid. Although urban unemployment is high and rising, rural to urban migra-
tion continues unabated. The problems are exacerbated in Dakar, the capital,
by the fact that it was, prior to independence, the administrative and econo-
mic capital of French West Africa (AOF) comprising Senegal, Dahomey, Guinea,
Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger and Upper Volta. As such, it served a
market of over 20 million consumers, and reached a standard of living cut of
proportion with the reduced economic potential of a country of 3.8 million
inhabitants. Following independence, shrinking markets for industrial goods
and services resulted in an economic setback for Dakar but the city stlll
monopolizes modern sector activities in Senegal (Tables 1 to 3).
2.02      Of Senegal's total population of 3.8 million, some 30% is urban and
550,000, or about 50% of the urban total, reside in the Dakar metropolitan
area (Annex 1). The next largest cities are the six regional capitals, which
in total have a population of 360,000 (Map 1). While the national population
is increasing at about 2.2% a year, its urban component is growing at 4.5%,
and Dakar alone at 6%. Although information on other Senegalese cities is
limited, an estimated half of the nation's annual urban population increase
is due to migration from rural areas. In the case of Dakar, about 40% of its
annual population increase is due to this migration. The natural growth of
Dakar population, around 3.6% per year, is very high by comparison with that
of the country as a whole. This is largely due to better hygienic conditions
and medical services (Dakar has 73% of the medical doctors of Senegal) that
have reduced infant mortality to some 85 per 1,000 versus 181 per 1,000 in the
rest of the country.
2.03      Urban unemployment is high.  In Dakar in 1970, only 30% of the active
population (male and female over 14 years of age) had permanent jobs. However,
because households are large, averaging over 7 persons, only 9% of families are
without any steady income. Most households' incomes are, nevertheless, quite
low. Some 40% had less than US$50 a month in 1970, while only 20% had more
than US$150 a month.
2.04      No early alleviation of the conditions of rapid growth in urban
population, high urban unemployment and low family incomes is in sight even
though the Government has adopted a policy aimed at reducing regional dispari-
ties. In the Third Four-Year Plan (1969-1973), priority is given to the rural
sector and regional development. The Regional Development Directorate, under
the State Secretary for Planning, is drawing up plans and programs for the re-
gions and cities of Senegal as a basis for investment selection, coordination and
evaluation. The Bank Group is giving its support to the policy of agricultur-
al and regional diversification and has lent for projects of land settlement
in the eastern part of the country and rice developments in the south, and is
considering another rice development project in the north. The Government is
trying to promote local industry in the less developed regions by using local
agricultural products as inputs.
2.05      These efforts may in the long run reduce Dakar's rate of growth and
produce a more even geographic distribution of wealth. For the foreseeable
future, however, Dakar must be expected to remain the most desirable location



-3-
for many new industrial and commercial activities in Senegal and its popula-
tion is expected to continue to grow rapidly and reach some 950,000 people by
1980. Employment in Dakar is trailing population growth, and there is little
hope for substantial reduction of unemployment in the near future. Incomes
and income distribution are expected to remain practically unchanged.
B. Dakar Metropolitan Area
2.06      Dakar is located in the Cap Vert Peninsula.  The Dakar metropolitan
area is administratively a part of the Dakar municipality which covers the en-
tire Cap Vert region. The municipality also includes Rufisque-Bargny, a town
of some 70,000, and a number of rural villages. Most of the administrative
and financial powers usually held by municipalities rest with the Ministry of
Public Works, Urbanism and Transport (MPWUT).
2.07      Since its founding in the early 19th century, the city hba  spread
back along the pen±nsula from.the initial settleamet at the tip of the cap*,
referred to as "le Plateau", which is now the center for Government adminis-
trative offices, banking and coeroe.  Indastrial development, first con-
centrated around the port area, expanded in a liner fashion around the bay
along the railway line end the highway to Thies (NAp 2). Residential areas
growing beyond the Plateau are both planned and uzplanned settlemts, with
the latter occupying vacant land between bs planned settlements and sprading
over the periphery of the metropolitan area (Annex 13).
2.08      Rural migrants and a growing number of the local born have no alter-
native to residing in expanding illegal squatter settlements and in privately
"developed" settlements. Both types of develop nt are ad hoc and haphazard.
Dwellings cover 70-90 of the land creating very high population densities.
Sewerage, drainage and water facilities are quite inadequate. Circulation sys-
tems generally are comprised of patbs that evolve without a view to the rational
development of the whole settlement or its relation to the greeter urban system.
2.09      Population growth is expected to add some 45,000 new households be-
tween 1970 and 1980 to the 65,000 already in Dakar. This is to say that over
this period an average of some 4,500 new households a year will seek shelter
and related facilities. Besides the needs of tho growing population, there is
a backlog of unsatisfied needs of the existing population. The public housing
agency, OHL1, presently has some 8,400 applications in, its files, and the Min-
istry of Finance (Direction des Domain.s) has some 3,500 applications for
serviced sites. These applications manate both from the population living in
the squatter settlements and from families in other districts that have been
forced to double up in the existing housing stock for lack of alternatives.
2.10      Given the expected household inoas distribution (Annex 3), and the
high cost of public housing, not more than 20% of the new households could af-
ford the present type of public housing or similar housing supplied by the pri-
vate sector. Of the remainder, it is estimited that about half, 40% of the total



- 4 -
or some 1t,500 households per year, could afford to build a house and make
small monthly payments for a serviced site.  This leaves some 40% of the
total of new families with income too low to build their own dwellings on
purchased sites. Fbr these families, the alternatives are cheap rental
accommodations, or to be housed free by relatives or friends, as some 20%
of the Dakar households presently do. Regarding the backlog of need among
the 8,1400 OHLM applicants, only 3,900 appear to have high enough incomes to
qualify for public housing, while the romaining 4,500 would only be able to
afford a site. No data are available on incomes of those who have applied to
the ULnistry of Finance for sdtes. However, it is likely that some of the
applicantg registered with the Ministry of Finance are the same as those
registered with OHLM and adding both figures would involve double counting.
The 4,500 applicaits registered with OHLM that would only be able to afford
a site have been assumed to represent a minimum estimate of the backlog of
need for serviced lots in Dakar.
2.11      Ovep the five-year period that would elapse between the signing of
the proposed a.'edit agreement and completion of project works, the minimum
need for serviced lots in Dakar by families that can afford to pay for them
and construct self-help housing would be for (a) some 7,500 new households,
(b) about 4,500 households representing the present backlog of unsatisfied
needs, and (c) about 2,000 households relocated from squatter settlements
(para. 3.04 and Annex 3).
C. Thies
2.12      Thies, located 70 km east of Dakar, ia the second largest city of
Senegal with a population of around 100,000 growing annually at about 5%.
Unlike Dakar, social information on Thies is scant. Densities are lower than
Dakar's, even in the core, and the squatters make up a smaller proportion of
the population and do not appear to be as concentrated in large settlements.
Established as a colonial outpost in 1864, the city really began to grow with
the construction of the railroad around 1925. It is located at the junction
of the Dakar-St. Louis and the Dakar-Bamako (Mali) railway lines and the rail-
way administration and yards employ some 2,000 persons. Recently a large
textile mill has located in Thies and the Taiba phosphate mines are nearby.
The city is also the market center for the surrounding agricultural area,
which includes part of the groundnut basin and the fertile coastal fringe.
In view of these promising economic factors and the growth of the city's
population, the Governamnt and IDA agreed that Thies should be chosen for the
initial investment of the national site and services program in the six
regional capitals. This action would also reinforce the Government's intention
to develop greater regional balance in the country.
2.13      The population of Thies is estimated to be growing by at least 5,000
people per year, or some 700 households. In the absence of income data, the
same proportion as in Dakar of new households which could afford either a
serviced site or public housing can be assumed, i.e. 60% of the total. While
incomes may be soTwehat lower than Dakar, so also are costs. Information on



- 5 -
the backlog is scant, but the situation appears somewhat better than in Dakar.
In particular, density in squatter settlements is quite low and no relocation
is contemplated. The resulting five-year requirement for sites and housing
units can thus be roughly estimated at somewhat over 2,000 units, of which
perhaps 20% could afford public Or high level private housing thus leaving a
need for some 1,600 sites.
III. APPROACHES TO THE PROBLEM
A. Past Government Action
3.01      A major development problem of urban areas in Senegal is how to keep
the housing stock and related facilities and serrices in line with the growth
and financial capacitiea of the Government and the population, particularly
lower income groups. Accompanying this is the problem of creating etployment
for the poorer inhabitants. The Government has endeavored to cope with the
problem in three waqs: (a) public housing, (b) site and services, and
(c) squatter settlement eradication.
3.02      While Dakar has grown by some 23,000 households since 1960, only
7,4OO units were built by the public and semi-private housing corporations
(OHLM and SICAP) and 3,300 by authorized private construction. The standards
adopted for housing, services and infrastructure approximate those in the
cities of the developed Western countries. One result is that public housing
units have cost an average of US$5,100 equivalent, including land and infra-
structure, and typically sell on a mortgage basis for some US$25 per month
which places these units, although subsidized,l/ beyond the means of some 80%
of Dakar's fandlies.   Legally conistructed private housing is equal-ly or more
expensive.
3.03      The Government has also undertaken aome elementary site and services
schemes.  During Senegal's Second Four-Year Plan (1965-1969), it developed
serviced lots to be given free to faxilies displaced by urban renewal and
squatter removal.  By 1971 in the Cap Vert region some 7,000 lots had been
graded and plotted, major streets laid out and public water fountain systems
installed.  Some public lavatories and schools are now being built.  The level
of services obtained to date is not much superior to that in squatter settle-
ments, but densities are lower and the site planning will enable some improve-
ments in situ as resources become available. Land has sometimes been poorly
graded  'an s a result it would now be very costly to provide sewerage and
drainage in some areas, while steep slopes have prevented building in others.
Families have been building their own housing without technical assistance.
Located as they are some 10 km from the central city and port, the poorest among
the settlers appear to be handicapped by high transport costs in their search
for and maintenance of employment. _
1/ The sales price barely covers the housing unit cost. Capital cost of
land and infrastructure, interest and managemnt charges are not included.



SIGNIFICANT SITE AND SERVICES EXPERIENCES
Rank of those   Documented
with over       New Sites
50,000 sites    Developmuent



3.04      Based on its earlier experience with site and services and a growing
awareness of the impossibility of providing more than a small proportion of
families with an OHLM type house and related facilities, the Government of
Senegal now wishes to embark on a large national site and services program to
aid in alleviating the housing needs of the lower income groups. This program,
to be undertaken in Dakar and the 6 regional capitals of the country, was
initiated during the Third Four-Year Plan (1969-73). However, while some
19,000 serviced lots were scheduled to be developed, only about 1,700 have
been completed by the end of 1971, principallj owing to lack of finincea and
of skilled manpower for preparation and administration.
3.05      Paralleling its public housing and elementary  site and services
programs, the Government has been deolishing squatter settlements in Dakar.
The cleared land has been ueed for public houing and the squatters given
serviced lots. This course of action, largely prompted by concerno for the
city beautification, has had a negative affect on the overall housing problem.
Siting public housing on land occupied by squatter settlements has resulted
in considerable social and individual costs. Housing in the squatter settle-
ments represents a substantial personal investment and though inadequate in
many respect; is quite serviceable. Destroying such settlements considerably
reduces the city's housing stock, and the general housing problem is intensi-
fied by the need to resettle the dialocated families on serviced lots distant
from employment. Moreover, about 50% of the resettled families appear too
poor to undertake self-help housing construction on such lots.
B.  Present Government Poli
3.06      For the purposes of the Bburth Plan (1973-1977), now in the course
of preparation, the Government has set three main objectives for investment in
housing and related facilities and services; to increase the efficiency
of investment, to reduce the burden on public finances,and to distribute the
benefits more equitably among the different income classes.
3.07      A major improvement will be the increased proportion of resources
allocated to the National Site and Services Pogram, of which the proposed
project forms the first phase. The program will develop serviced sites at a
minimum cost to the Government and individual families. The new site and
services schemes will also be more comprehensive than those developed earlier.
The program has important associated objectives of mobilizing personal savings,
using self-help techniques, increasing opportunities for employment and social
development through assistance in.community organization and ugrading environ.
mental conditions in Bquatter settlements.
-3.L0--. Th.  Governent also proposes to increase the efficiency of investment
in its housing program by adopting standards more appropriate to current
income levels for the regular housing unita constructed by OHLM (called
"economic" units) which presently average about US$5,100 equivalent per unit
(including the cost of land and infrastructure), and by introducing a much cheaper
forT of houBi5ig unit to be coinstriicted by OHZJC(called "supereconomic" units),
where the cost per unit should average roughly half that of the current program.






-7-
3.09       The Government's proposals for the Fourth Plan take into account
the need to reduce the call on the budget to finance the sector. The costs
of preparing and servicing individual lots included in the site and services
program will be self-financing, repayments of purchases under the proposed
project being paid into an investment fund for future site and services
projects* The Government has also decided to reduce the financial burden of
its housing program, (a) by eliminating all subsidies to SICAP from the start
oA the Fourth Plan, (b) by reducing the number of economic units to be con-
structed by OHLM, {c) progressively ejiminating subidies on -these units over
ten years, and (d) by restricting subsidies on OHIELM supereconomic units to
the cost of land and infrastructure. The combined effect of these decisions
will be a substantial freeing of Governnt resources for other purposes.
3.10      The Government's proposalB for the Fourth Plan also represent a dsci-
sive ahift towards benefitting lower incom  groups. In the past, only those
with salaries above US$100 equivalent per month, were able to obtain a housirig
unit from OHIM or SICAP. Por those earning less than this - about 80% of the
urban population - there was little alternative to the crowded low standard
districts, with the remote prospect of obtaining a low standard site under
the Government's site and servicea schemes. Under the Government's present
proposals for the Fburth Plan, those with incomes ranging between approximately
US$40 and US$120 equivalent per month (US$50 in Dakar) will have the alternatives
of a serviced site under the proposed project or, for a few, a supereconomic
urit from OHLM. This wide income group covers roughly two-fifths of the house-
holds. However, on account of the heavily skewed income distribution, the
majority of these households are at the lower part of the range arid will only
be able to afford a serviced site.
3.11      Those earning too little even to be able to afford a serviced lot
will benefit from the proposed project since they will be able to rent quarter-¶
from resident lot purchasers. Also, due to0.i magnitude, the project should
reduce the growing pressure on existing low incomm settlements.  The 0overLn13nt
has also taken two decisions that will benefit this low income group in important
ways, First, it has decided to suspend further eradication of squatter aettle-
ments, after completion of its on-going clearance program, until completion of
a study to be financed by the proposed project, of the criteria to be used in
identifying squatter settlements to be improved in situ. Secondly, it has
decided to undertake, as part of the proposed project, a pilot project for
improving a squatter settlement  in situ, by upgrading of public facilities
and, where necessary, part of the hDousing stock. This pilot project should
provide valuable experience in techniques for directly addressing the
accommodation problem of families in the lowest range of urban incomes.
3.12      While these proposals constitute a significant advance over previous
policies, more comprehensive planning needs to be undertaken. One of the
technical assintants to be financed by the UNDP under the project will assist
the Government in the task of further developing a national housing policy.



- 8 -
3.13      on a broader level, the Government is endeavor:ig to plan for
balanced urban and rural development on a national scale, at the same time it
ia dealing with the problems of particular cities. The Regional Development
Directorate under the Ministry of Planning in charged with drawing up plans
and programs for the regions and cities of Senegal as a basis for investment
selection, coordination and evaluation. The present lack of skilled manpower
for this work should be alleriated by the scheduled arrival of a United Nations
regional planning expert to assist with the Fourth National Development Plan.



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      Over a five-year period, the project would enable a substantial part
of lower-income inhabitants of Dakar and Thies to provide themselves with
housing and foster the economic and social development of their communities.
At the same tine, it would help Government gain the initiative in guiding
urban growth. The project would also assist Government in developing the
necessary institutions to continue with the site and aervices program after
completion of the Bank-assisted project.
4.02      Self-help would play an important role in the project.  Through it,
with the assistance of community organizers and practical technicians, occu-
panta would participate in making and carrying out decisions to advance their
own welfare. They would build their own housing and community structures,
such as mosques and social centers, and establish cooperative institutions
such as savings and credit mchanims, building materials production co-ops,
and child-care centers. Annex 9 contains a detailed outline of the community
development component of the project. The project would generate employment
directly dhe to the labor component in construction included in the project
itself and indirectly through its stimulation of labor intensive home building
and related construction materials industries.
4.03      The project would:
(a) provide and prepare land for dwelling construction: draining,
grading, and plotting of 400 ha in Dkar and 60 ha in Thies fbr
the settlement of some 14,000 and 1,600 households respectively;
(b) equip the new settlements with low-cost public facilities:
local vehicular and pedestrian roads, power, and combined
community-private water and sanitation systems designed
for two-income levels;
(c) construct and equip schools and health facilities: 12 pri-
mary schools, 4 secondary schools and 4 health centers in
Dakar 2 primary schools and 1 health center in Thies;
(d) provide urbanized sites for other land use activities: com-
mercial, small-scale industrial, recreational, cultural, and
future educational facilities;
(e) provide technical assistance experts for preparation of de-
tailed engineering, management and training related to project
i4lementation and the formulation of a continuing national
site and services program, and funds for short-term consultant
work;



- 10 -
(g)  construct extensions of the primary highway, water and elec-
tricity networks to and through the project areas;
(h) provide consultants to develop criteria to assist the Govern-
ment in identifying squatter settlements that can be improved
in situ, together with a pilot community improvement project
on some 10 ha of a squatter settlement in central Dakar.
B. Detailed Features
Location and Preparation of Land
4.04      The 400 ha to be developed in Dakar are in a contiguous strip running
east-west between the village of Yoff and the town of Pikine, bounded on the
north by sand dunes and the sea and on the south by the Grande iliaye, a fer-
tile low-lying area of intensive market gardening, and the Builders Develop-
ment (Maps 2, 5).  This location conforms with the Dakar Master Plan recom-
mendations to urbanize the vacant land between the city of Dakar and the sub-
urban town Pikine, and is the nearest site to existing development on which
no irrevocable commitments have been made. The land is vacant and, with few
exceptions, title belongs to the Government. The Government will purchase
the existing private titles at its own expense. With limited extension of
existing roads and additional public bus lines, the site is easily accessible
to employment centers at acceptable cost levels.  During negotiations, the
Government has given assurances that the site will be adequately linked by
public transport to the center of Dakar. The 60 ha to be developed in Thies
borders the Dakar-Thies highway and lies in the path of the city's western
expansion. This site is adjacent to the Thies industrial zone and has easy
access to the city center by the privately operated horse cart system (Map 3).
4.05      The Dakar site would be designed for a population density of about
350 persons plr ha, and the Thies2site for about 260 persons per ha. The
lots of 150 m in Dakar and 200 m in Thies would be laid out in clusters of
six, each with a camnon semi-public space and linked to the neighborhood
and the larger community by a network of pedestrian and vehicular streets
(Maps 6-8, Annex 5). open space consisting of public squares and 1.5 ha
per 100 Iha of development for sports would be graded and landscaped. In
Dakar, sand dunes and other irregular topographical features require
substantial earth moving to avoid the shortcomings of previous projects
(para. 3.03). In Thies, the project is on gently sloping laterite terrain
and no earth moving is required, thus reducing considerably the cost of
development.
Infrastructure
4.06      public water fountains would be provided in both project areas at
a ratio of one per 100 households.  It is expected that in Dakar some 85%
of the households would rely exclusively on these for their water consumption,
while some 15% of the households in the upper income range of the target
population would pay for a private water connection to their lot.  In Thies,
because of generally lower income levels, all households would rely upon
public water. iHouseholds relying on fountains for their water supply would
build pit privies on their lot with the assistance of technical sanitation



- 11 -
personnel of the Ministry of Health. Households obtaining a private water
connection would be required to have a septic tank on their lot to dispose
of the larger volume of water. A provision is made in the project to equip
up to 15% of the lota with septic tanks; the exact proportion will be adapted
to the demand after applicant registration begins. Public lavatories on septic
tanks would also be constructed in public spaces and market areas. Solid waste
would be collected by the municipal governments from garbage bins located
throughout the project sites on a ratio of one per 25 households. In Dakar,
water would be supplied by extending vains from existing local sources (Map
5) and the Thies site would receive its water supply from the adjacent indus-
trial zone.
4.07      Vehicular streets within the project areas would have a 20 m right-
of-way with a 5 a wide asphalt surfacing and secondary streets primarily for
pedestrain use would have a 14 a right-of-way with a laterite surface. Public
lighting would be installed along vehicular streets and in public squares.
Tme power compar- will provide electricity connections to individual
lots at the request and expense of the occupants. Power would be supplied to
the Dakar site from existing distribution lines serving the area. The power
line serving the adjacent industrial zone would be extended to supply power
to the Thies site.
Schools and Health Facilities
4.08      The project includes construction and equipping of primary schools
according to enrollment standards now provided in the Cap Vert region. A
general secondary school would also be constructed and equipped for approxi-
mately every 3,500 households. For Dakar, this will require 12 primary
schools and 4 secondary schools; for Thies, 2 primary schools. Secondary
school students in Thies would attend existing schools. Land would also be
reserved for future school needs. Four health centers would be built in
Dakar, one for each 100 ha. Each center would have a physician, a midwife,
two State nurses, two regular nurses, a social worker, and two custodians.
Also, one smaller health facility would be constructed in the Thies develop-
ment.
Other Land Use Activities
4.09      Serviced sites would be reserved for cultural and recreational uses,
future schools and markets. In Dakar, a 2 ha area for development of a small
scale industrial estate would also be provided (Map 6). During the assignment
of plots, land would be allocated for mixed residential and commercial activi-
ties.
Technical Assistance
4.10      An important objective of the proposed project is the development
of the government agency, OHLff, so that it can carry out a sustained national
program. The project therefore, includes technical assistance for management,



- 12 -
designing and implementing programo and the training of staff. It is estimated
that five experts would be required by OHLHf, one each for housing management
and program development, accounting and comptrolling, economic aspects of ccm-
munity development, savings and credit institutions, and design of low-cost
urban infrastructure. The project also provides for engagement of consultants
to assist the Government in detailed engineering of the more complicated works.
4.11      In addition the United Nations, through ita technical assistance
program, has been asked to-recruit an expert on building materials and construc-
tion to assist in project implementation and an adviser to the Ministry of Public
Works, Transportation and Urbanization on national habitation policy and pro-
gramming (Annex 6). In the event that the UN cannot provide these experts,
during negotiations it was agreed that the coats of these two specialists could
also be included in the project but that the total financing of the project
by the Bank would remain at $8.0 million equivalent.
Criteria Study and Pilot Project
4.12      Daring negotiations, the Government expressed its willingness to sus-
pend eradication of squatter settlements upon completion of its existing
committment to relocate some 40,000 squatters in order to develop more rational
ways of dealing with these very low standard districts. The project will assist
the Government in carrying out-a study of criteria that would help it decide
which squatter settlements can be upgraded through community improvement programs.
Following this criteria stucyr, the consultants will,in consultation with the
Government and IDA, prepare a development plan including detailed engineering
for a pilot project to improve living conditions in some 10 ha of a central
squatter settlement in Dakar.   The present project includes $60,000 equivalent
for financing the civil works for the pilot project which will be executed
by the OHLM.
C. Design Standards
4.13      Standards used in the design of the project, particularly for water
distribution, sanitation and social services are selected to provide a level
of service higher than that obtained in existing low and very low standard
residential districts while keeping costs low enough to enable a large section
of the low-income families to pay for and improve upon the serviced sites.
Road construction would be limited to essential arteries, to permit vehicular
access for fire protection, garbage collection, etc. Provision would be made
for future upgrading to higher standards. Estimated cost per household at
US$33 is about one-seventh that in public housing operations. Public fountains
would be provided at a density comparable to that of the medium standard districts.
The cost per household of the water distribution system would be about US$36 or
about half that in public housing. The individual sanitary facilities have
been judged preferable to the common facilities which have proven difficult
to maintain in clean and operating conditions. Soil conditions, densities
and the design selected do not require surface water drainage system construc-
tion. The cost per household of the sewerage and drainage, US$87, is less
than a third that in public housing projects.
D. Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
Project Costs
4.14      Project costs are estimated at CFAF 3,309.8 million (US$12.9 million



- 13 -
equivalent) of which the foreign exchange component is CFAF 1,449. 4 million
(US$5.7 million) or about 44% of total costs. Estimates are based on pre-
liminary engineering undertaken by the Directorate of Urbanism for the first
125 ha in Dakar, and on unit prices of recently awarded contracts for similar
works. Detailed engineering is being undertaken by the OHL4 (para. 4.21).
Costs in Thies have been adjusted to take account of reduced earth moving
requirements (para. 4.05). Physical contingencies allowed amount to 15%
and price escalation contingencies amount to some 10% on the basis of a 4%
escalation per annum. Contingencies have not been allowed for investment
in extensions of primary infrastructure networks which will be financed
by the Government directly and thus have not been appraised at the same
level of detail as the parts of the project proposed for IDA, financing.
Taxes and duties on materials and construction are included in the project
cost.   They average  22% of total costs and 39%.of local costs.  The estimates
include the cost of technical experts for project management and training
and of consultants' services needed by  aHIM  to prepare  detailed engineering
for the project, the criteria study, and detailed engineering for the com-
munity improvement pilot project. The cost estimates are summarized below
and are discussed in greater detail in Annexes 7 and 8.
nry of Project Cost Estimates
5of
_    CFAIP (millions)             us$ (ooTotal
Item                         Local ___re_        Tot                  USS re       Total        Ex1f
Site Preparation
Topographical Work            14.7      31.3     46.o          57.4     122.4     179.8        1.8
Earthworks                   315.0     385.0    700.0       1,231.5   1.505.7   2,737.2       26.3
Project Area Infrastructure
Streets                      73.7      33.0    106.7          288.2     129.0     417.2        4.0
Water Distribution System     49.7     64.7    114.4          194.3    253.0      447.3        4.4
Sanitary Facilities          214.2     64.3    278.5          837.7     251.6   1,089.3       10.5
Poer Distribution             37.6    193.3     230.9         147.2    755.6      902.8        8.8
Open Spaces Planting          9.2                 9.2          36.0      -         36.o         .4
Social Services
Education Facilities         443.8    116.5    560.3        1,735.4     455.5   2,190.9       21.0
Health Facilities            80.8      24.2    105.0          315.9      94.6     410.5        4.0
Community Iuprovement
Pilot Project                 9.2       6.1      15.3          36.o      24.0      60.0         .6
Technical Assistance
Professional Services        37.6      75.0    112.6          147.0    293.0      440.0        4.3
Consultant Services           13.6     54.2      67.8          53.      212.0     265.0        2.5
Subtotal             1,299.1   10147.6   2,346.7       5,079.6   4,096.4   9,176.0
Contingencies
Physical       15%          196.2    158.3    354.5           767.4    618.6   1,386.0
Price Escalation 10%         129.9     o4.9     234.8         508.      410.0     918.0
Subtotal             1,625.2   1,310.8   2,936.0       6,355.0   5,125.0  11,480.0
Land Acquisition              100.0      .        100.0         391.0      .        391.0        3.0
Primary Infrastructure
Extensions                  130.0    113.0      243.0         509.0     440.0     949.0        7.4
UIIDP Technical Assistance       5.2      25.6     30.           20.0     100.0     120.0        1.0
Total                1,860.4   1,449.4   3,309.8       7,275.0   5,665.0  12,940.0      100.0



- 14 -
4.15       The costs of construction (site preparation, infrastructure and
social facilities) represent some 90% of the cost of the project proper, land
acquisition some 3%, technical assistance some 5%, and the criteria study and
pilot project make up the remaining 2%. Ninety-four percent of the construc-
tion costs are for Dakar and only 6% for Thies. The costs for Thies are
substantially lower than in Dakar because no earthworks are needed (para. 4.05)
and no provision has been made for private water connections and septic tanks.
Financing
4.16      The proposed IDS credit of us$8.0 million would cover 79% of the total
net costs of the project of US$10.1 million excluding the estimated duties
and taxes of US$2.8 million. The credit would not finance land acquisition
and primary infrastructure extensions. It would meet the full foreign ex-
change cost of the other project elements of US$5.1 million and also finance
up to US$2.9 million, or about 66% of the total net local currency cost of
US$4.4 million equivalent excluding the duties and taxes.  The Government
would finance the foreign exchange component of the extension of primarxy
infrastructure to the project areas estimated at some US$0.4 million and
-Jr0-1.3 million equivalent of local currency cost including UJS$2.8 million for
duties and taxes. UNDP will finance technical assistance estimated at
UTS$0.1 million.
4.17      In addition, the Government would provide land for the project al-
ready in its possession.  Goverment would also finance out of its recurrent
budget (a) the salaries of CHLM staff for the preparation of detailed en-
gineering and management prior to lot sale and that of local technical assis-
tance staff from the Ministries of Health and Youth and Sports estimated at
some US$0.7 million over the 5-year project implementation period, and (b)
the maintenance and operating costs for roads, street lighting, garbage col-
lection, public open space, schools and health clinics in the project areas,
these are estimated to total US$1.6 million per annum following project com-
pletion, with the annual operation costs of schools and health centers ac-
counting for US$900,000 and US$160,000 respectively. These operating costs
will represent an annual increase over the project period of 1% and 0.3%
respectively of the two ministriest 1971 budget.
Disbursement
4.18      The Association would disburse 67% of the costs of civil works for
site preparation, project area infrastructure and social services and 100,g
of the salaries, and expenditures of technlical assistants and consultants0
Estimated disbursements of the credit are shown in Table 8 of the report.
.Ay surplus remaining in the credit account upon completion of the project
would be cancelled.
E. Execution
Development Schedule
4.19      Project execution would take place over a five-year period.  In
Dakar, there would be four construction phases each averaging 100 ha. Phase I
would begin mid-1973. Infrastructure works for this phase are expected to
be completed by late-1973 with occupation of the serviced lots starting im-
mediately and extending over a one-year period to late-1974. Phase II con-
struction is expected to begin early-19741, followed early-1975 and 1976 by
III and IV, so that there would be developed land for a continuous settle-



- 15 -
ment operation.  Time allowed for project construction in Dakar should not be
shortened appreciably because (a) the project is on sandy soil and erosion
could damage earthworks not occupied for a 2-3 year period, (b) difficulties
may arise in preventing squatting on unoccupied land prepared for settlement,
and (c) administering land settlement and organizing communit  develoynent
will be a considerable undertaking for the executing agency. As this will be
a new type of project for the newly reorganized executing agency, the progress
of civil works should be tailored to the progression of land settlement. In
Thies, there would be two phases of 30 ha each.  Infrastructure construction
for the first phase would take place in 1974 and that for the second phase
in 1976. WhLile soil erosion should not be a problem in Thies, the above
problems of program organization and control would apply. The study to develop
criteria for squatter settlement improvement will begin in February 1973 and
will require about 4 months. It will be followed immediately by the prepara-
tion of a development plan including detailed engineering for the pilot project.
This preparation will take approximately 3 months and will be followed imiediate-
ly by the implementation of the pilot project.
4.20      Infrastructure construction for the entire project is expected to
be completed by late-1976 and all sites would be allocated by the end of 1977
(Table 9). The self-help construction of housing in both Dakar and Thies
would commence with the initial authorization to occupy the serviced sites.
It is expected that most people would build while occupying their sites;
however, some are- expected to build prior to moving onto their lot. Due
to the incremental approach used in the project, this scheduling is flexi-
ble and can be adjusted in response to actual conditions at the time of
implementation.
Construction Works
4.21      The Technical Section of the executing agency, OHLMl, would be
responsible for preparing detailed engineering and bidding documents for
construction of all project elements and would also supervise construction
work. With the addition of a civil engineer financed by the project, this
office should be able to undertake its tasks. Provision is made to cover
the cost of occasional assistance by consultants (para. 4.10).
4.22      The construction of infrastructure would be designed for labor
intensive building methods, except for earthwork and grading for the roads
and site preparation for which Senegalese contractors usually use heavy
equipment.  To encourage participation of local contractors, separate civil
works contracts would be drawn up for the various functional components
(a) site preparation and streets, (b) water distribution, (c) electrification,
(d) septic tanks and public lavatories, (e) schools and (f) health facilities.
Contracts for work in Dakar and Thies would be separate. Civil works
contracts will be made to cover two year periods of project construction,
they will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding and
contractors would be given the option to bid for any or all the components
and both for Dakar and Thies.
4.23      Because of the small size of the project, the spreading of execu-
tion over a five-year period and the generally simple techniques required,
it is doubtful that contractors from outside Senegal and neighboring coun-
tries would be interested in bidding for the construction contracts.
Consequently, it is reasonable to advertiae foi international competitive



- 16 -
bidding on construction of infraatructure to Senegalese and regional
publications and through embassies.
Settlement
4.24      The selection and the settlement of low-income households on the
serviced sites will be undsrt1ken Jointly by DPH and OEIM. Those households
eligible for application should (a) have a household income between about
CFAF 14.,5oo to 37,500 per month, US$57 to l45 equivalent (US$40 to 145 in Thies)
and (b) not be the owner of a house or a site in the Cap Vert region. Priority
would be given to groups wishing to settle together and those living in
squatter settlements (Annex 3 and 9 give details). Assignees would be allowed
to rent part of their dwelling area to a second household. A tenure contract.
would specify rights and duties of the settler and the OHLM (Annex 10). The
occupants would be required to reimburse the executing agency for the cost
of land preparation and infrastructure (para. 5.12). The Community Assistance
Section of the Site and Services Division of OHLM (para. 5.07) and local
community leaders would undertake the task of assisting families to settle on
the serviced lots.



- 17 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. The Borrower and the Executing Agency - OHLM
5.01      The borrower would be the Government of Senegal.  The project
would be implemented and managed by the OHLM under a decree making OHLM
the executing agency of the national site and services program, and a
project agreement between the OHLM and IDA.
5.02      The OHLM was created in 1959 to develop urban and rural housing
for wage-earners, who are typically of the upper and middle-income popula-
tion groups (para. 3.02). Utilizing Government grants obtained from a
housing tax on all salaries, 1/ OHLM sells and rents 2/ subsidized housing
to families having at least one of their members subject to the housing
tax. From 1960 through June 1969, the end of the Second Four-Year Plan
period, the OHLM built 3,760 housing units, 1,900 of which are in the
Dakar metropolitan area. Operations were to be atepped up dramatically
during the Third Plan with a goal of 4,500 units for the 1969/73 period.
As of June 1971, 1,500 new units had been completed, all of them in the
Dakar metropolitan area; and 2,700 units, some 2,100 in Dakar, are program-
med to be completed by June 1973. Until 1969, capital expenditures were
financed almost exclusively 3/ by Government out of the proceeds of the
housing tax and from the proceeds of sales and rents.  To implement the
larger program assigned to the OHLM by the Third Plan, the agency had to
borrow externally. OHLM obtained 20-year loans at 3.5% annual interest
from the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and five-
year loans at 5.5% annual interest from the Banque Nationale de Develop-
pement du Senegal (BNDS) to be applied toward financing part of the
housing construction. Engineering and construction supervision for the
housing projects have generally been done by OHLM itself, except for a
recent operation in Dakar for which consultants have been employed.
5.03      The OHLM has presently a staff of 120 Senegalese and 10 ex-
patriate technical assistants. Most of the Senegalese staff are
inexperienced and only one-fifth have had formal professional training.
The Director is a Senegalese but the expatriate staff occupy the respon-
sible positions in the engineering and accounting sections. They are
1/ The "housing tax" instituted in 1960 consists of 2% of total salaries
paid by all employees drawing a fixed salary and 2% of all salaries
up to a ceiling of CFAF 45,000 (US$177) paid by the employers.   The
annual revenue from the tax has been around US$5 million over the
last three years.
2/ Until 1969, all OHLM housing, except for a amall number of units in
the urban renewal project, was sold under extended mortgage install-
ments. So far, the sales prices have barely covered the housing unit
construction cost. Capital cost of land and infrastructure, interest
and management charges have not been included.
3/ Except for some CCCE loans for urban renewal of the Medina.



- 18 -
mostly young Frenchmen serving for a limited period of 14-16 months as
"volontaires du service national". The effectiveness of the organization
and the quality of its work are adversely affected by the lack of con-
tinuity of staff in responsible positions as well as by the lack of clear
definition of responsibilities among various sections. Accounting and
financial operations of OHLM are particularly weak, but the situation
has improved since 1970 when the French COCE started lending to OHLM.
The present director of OHIM is an experienced Senegalese. However he
has only been at OHLM since December 1971 and has recently been nominated
for an overseas positicn which he will take up shortly. The Government has
not announced his succesBor. The choice of the new director could be
crucial to the success of the project, and therefore the Government has
agreed to maintain in the director's position a person whose qualifications
and experience are satisfactory to the Association.   The appointment of
a director acceptable to the Association is a condition of effectiveness.
B. Project Management and Maintenance
5.04      In order to carry out the project efficiently, the OHLM would be
reorganized into two separate Directorates -- a Housing Directorate for
executing the present housing program and a Site and Services Directorate
for carrying out the IDA project and future similar projects of the Govern-
ment (Chart 1). This second Directorate would also be responsible for
cammunity improvement projects. 1/ In undertaking the management of the
project, duties of the new direcJorate are to be divided between the central
office of OHLM, in Dakar, and its regional office in Thies.  The central
office would undertake the engineering and management aspects common to the
Dakar and Thies site.. The existing Thies office of the OHLM, suitably
strengthened, would supervise execution and management of projects in the
area under its jurisdiction. Given the magnitude of the program in Dakar,
field units should be established for management, the number of which would
be arrived through trial during project implementation.
5.05      The Site and Services Directorate would also coordinate the activi-
ties of other Government agencies involved with the project. The activities
of the Direction de la Promotion Humaine (DPH) and the Directorate of Urban-
ism and Housing (DUH) require close coordination because DPfH would be respon-
sible for formulating and implementing the community development program
for OHLM (Annex 9) and DUH would be responsible for issuing building permits
to settlers and for enforcement of building codes (Annex 11).
5.06      Success of the project to a great extent relies upon the positive
response and involvement of the families who will occupy the serviced lots.
This would be achieved through community organization (Annex 9). In
organizing the families assigned to the lots, the existing familiar social
systems and formal and informal aBsociations would be utilized. At present in
1/ Community improvement: the upgrading of existing low-income settlements,
especially squatter settlements, through improving such elements as water,
sanitation, health and school facilities.



- 19 -
urban areas, the major local administrative unit is the "quartier" headed
by a "chef de quartier" who is a local leader or an appointee of the regional
governor, assisted by an advisory council of local personalities. Existing
quartiers vary greatly in size, however. It is suggested that in Phase I
of the project in Dakar, quartiers would be of the order of 100 to 150 house-
holds. The site occupants would be organized to undertake both core activi-
ties essential to all community units (quartiers), and ancillary activities
that would vary in type and number among communities. Among the core activi-
ties would be the construction of housing, and the establishment of savings
and credit mechanisms (Associations Cooperatives d'Habitat), including means
for collection of monthly mortgage payments. The ancillary activities could
include the construction of comnunity buildings, training programs, domestic
activities such as in child--care, sewing and hygiene, and the promotion of
various produce and consumer cooperatives.
5.07     To assist the inhabitants of the sites to organize local groups
for participating in the makin3& and implementing of decisions concerning their
welfare, a Commity Assistance Sect-on will be established in the Site and
Services Directorate of OHM. This section will be managed and staffed in
the main by the DIrection de la ?romotion Eumaine (Annex 9). During the
project's first year, the Eirector of OHLM would set up a Monitoring Committee
to assess the project's progresa with himself as Chairman, and the.head of
the Site and Services Directorate, the head of the Commanity Assistance Section
and the accourtant as members.
5.08      The magnitude of the project (15,600 sites to be developed and al-
located over a 4-5 year period), its novelty, the limited qualifications of
the Senegalese personnel of OHLM and the high turnover of expatriate staff
require that technical assistance be provided to assist OHLM in executing
the project and to train goverruental counterparts to continue with the
National Program after project Completion. The expert in housing manage-
ment and project development would be the Project Manager and would serve
as head of the new Directorate while training a counterpart to replace him.
His appointment and that of the civil engineer and the savings and credit
mechanisms expert will be made in conaultation with IDA and are conditions
of effectiveness.
Maintenance
5.09      Maintenance of the project would be undertaken by the municipal
governments.of Dakar and Thies. They will be respoaible for carrying out
all maintenance and repairs of streets, public water fountains and lavatories,
and public lighting. They will ensure collection of garbage and the cleaning
of public open spaces, streets, parks and other recreation aroea. Considera-
tion should be given to turning over some of these responsibilities to the
local communities.
C.  Financing Plan for the Projc
5.10      The OHfLM would be responsible for the detailed engineering and
the execution of all project elements, and for the management of the proj-
ect sites. All project funda including IDA funds and Government counterpart



- 20 -
contribution would be channelled through OHLM during project execution.
However, the schools and health clinics costing together some US$3.2 million
would remain the Government's property. In accordance with the legislation
presently in force, the Government will finance the power distribution system
in the project area. During negotiations, the Government agreed not to dispose
of the system built under the project without the approval of the Associatior..
5.11      The funds spent for detailed engineering, site preparation
infrastructure (except power), and management prior to lot sale, and attri-
butable to individual lot development, will be recouped from lot purchases.
These site development costs totalling some US$5.5 million equivalent, of
which the IDA contribution would be US$4.1 million, would be passed on to
the settlers by OHLM. The repayments over 15 years would be used to create
an investment fund for continuation of the National Site and Servicee Program
after completion of the IDA supported project. During negotiations the Gcverrnment
agreed not to terminate the investment fund without consulting IDA. The
accounts of the housing and the site and services divisions -would be kept
separate, and the budget for the Site and Services Division of OHLM should be
agreed upon mutually by the State and OHLM and payments of the Government
counterpart funds should be made quarterly in advance. OHLM's present auditor
is the Commission des Comptes de la Cour Supreme. This body is overloaded with
work and OHLM's accounts have not been audited since 1966/67. As a condition
of effectiveness, OHLM would appoint a private firm of auditors satisfactory to
the Association that would audit OHLM accounts annually and within four months
after the close of the fiscal year.
5.12      The cost of lots to the families settling in the project area
would include the cost of land preparation, streets, water distribution
system, public sanitary facilities, engineering and management prior to
lot sale, but not the coat of schools, health centers and electrification
(to be borne by Government).  Land would also be provided free.  The Govern-
ment already controls 75% of the land needed for the project in Dakar and
100% in Thies. A 1964 law placed all land in Senegal that was not the
object of a property title under Government control. Because of the
traditional pattern  of land ownership, very little land in Senegal is in
private hands and it is difficult to place a market value on the land that
will be used for the project.  In Dakar, the lot cost would be US$290 for
the families relying entirely on common facilities, and around US$860
for lots with water connection and septic tank. This latter cost is based
on consultant's NEDECO preliminary engineering and cost estimates for a
septic tank and appears high in comparison with typical septic tank costs
in other countries. Final costs for the lots will be calculated on the
basis of actually incurred costs. In Thies, wheze there will be only one
type of lot, its cost would be around US$120.
5.13      Lot attributees would have the option to pay for their lot in a
lump sum or, following a downpayument of about 8% of the cost, in monthly
installments. In the second case, families settling in Dakar would be pay-
ing during 15 years US$3.59 per month which includes interest at some 7% and
the cost of management and administration for the common lots and US$8.60



- 21 -
per month for the lots with water connection and se2tic tanks. 1/ In Thies,
monthly payment would be US$2.4O. Whether they choose the lump sum payment
or the installment alternative, families relying on public water both in
Dakar and Thies, would also pay a sum of US$1.09 equivalent per month toward
the estimated coat of water consumption at the public fountains; families
with private water conmections would pay their water bills directly to the
water company. The charges for nanagement and water consumption would be
periodically adjusted on the basis of experience.
5.14      Given (a) the newness of this type of site and services project
where the recipient families would be repaying the Government for its in-
vestment in site development, and (b) the fact that the sites will be oc-
cupied by the lower incomed and less stably employed groups in the population,
there is a risk that some settlers would default on their payments. In
Senegal to date, Government's experience with debt recuperation for housing
has been confined to its public housing program where default has averaged
about 12% on annual payments due. However, Government has stated that
delinquents are eventually depossessed of the unit. The limited inforsa-
tion available on debt recuperation with site and services schmes else-
where in the world, indicates defaults to be common but very variable.
However, experience indicates that debt recuperation in much better where
responsibility for collection has rested with the local community, a pro-
cedure which is being proposed for this project (para. 5.06, Annex 9).
Defaults are high where governments do not impose their rights to evict
delinquents. The Government confirmed durirg negotiations that sanctions
would be taken against delinquents. For the purpose of developing finan-
cial projections, a rate of default of 15% on the anmual amounts due has
nevertheless been assumed.
5.15      Pro forma income statements, sources and application of funds and
balance sheets are given in Tables 10 to 12.  Table 11 shows that the Site
and Services Division of OHLM would start recovering its investment in Year
3 with some CFAF 69 million (US$270,000) including downpayment and the
monthly payments for Phase I of the project in Dakar. From Year 7 on to
Year 17, the operating surplus and capital repayments would give the divi-
sion some CFAF 104 million (US$400,000) annually for reinvesting into new
projects. The annual amounts will decrease in the following three years
l/ This period is typical in Senegal for repayment of housing. Although it
may appear short with regards to housing mortgage terms in developed coun-
tries, it is rather long for people not accustomed to credit; furthermore,
the sums to be recovered are small and to extend the reco-ery period woluld
not make a substantial difference in the monthly payments. The interest
rate of 7% is lower than rates of 11-13% charged in a high income privvw,ie
housing development (Builders Development financed through the US Housing
Inv7etient Guarantee Program). By comparison, OHLM has not charged in-
terest rate for ita houses to date. The monthly payments resulting from
applying this rate of interest appear within the means of the project
target population.



- 22 -
as the sites in the various project phases are paid off. The directorate
would retain these sums for imnvestment both in site and services projects
and in conmunity improvement projects, 1/ and Government has agreed that
they would not be used without prior agreement of IDA during the credit
disbursement period. Following completion of the project, the annual
needs in Dakar would be only those of the population growth and the number
of sites needed annually would be 50-60% of those to be produced by the
project. In Thies and in the other regional capitals, the needs would be
those of the population growth.
VI.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC BENEFITS
6.01      The main purpose of the project is to initiate a realistic pro-
gram for stimulating building of housing and for providing related facili-
ties on a scale large enough to alleviate the shortage of housing for the
lower income groups. To reach this objective, it is necessary to economize
on resource use and public finance. It is in thia context that the project
is primarily to be evaluated. Though housing is an economic service it is
difficult to calculate the economic return of a site and services project,
since this element is only a component of the final product, namely housing.
However, the rental value of housing that the project would generate can give
some measure of the economic benefits. Further indirect socio-economic bene-
fits would accrue from employment generation, control over urban growth, im-
provement of health etc., resulting from the project.
6.02      The project provides a lower cost approach to housing than public
housing programs. In Dakar, over a 5-year period, the project would accom-
modate some 14,000 families at a cost of about US$5.3 million equivalent. 2/
Over an equal time period (1967-71), a 80% greater Government investment -
both in public and semi-public housing programs has resulted in the produc-
tion of some 4,000 new housing units, which have been occupied by only the
city's wealthier inhabitants (Table 13).
6.03      Over the next five years, the proposed project should thus lead
to a much larger number of housing units than would otherwise be constructed.
Table 14 shows a comparison of courses of action for the next five years in
Dakar with and without the project.  Over 5 years more than 20,000 housing
unita would be produced with the project versus some 12,500 without. Total
costs of producing the 20,000 units with the project, including the estimated
value of self-help would be roughly equal to the cost of producing 12,500
without the project.  However, public investment with the project would be
some 25% lower. The project would make such reductions possible by providing
a large number of building sites and also technical assistance. Clearly the
1/  "Community improvement" consists of upgrading public infrastructure and
>cservices in existing settlements, especially squatter settlements.
2/ Included is the cost of site preparation and infrastructure, minus power.
Social facilities such as education and health are excluded.



- 23 -
level of public housing production and cost reduction that would actually
occur parallel to the project cannot be estimated precisely and the cal-
culation accordingly only indicates orders of magnitude for the number of
units and costs of alternative programs.
6.04      As mentioned above, the project not only provides a less expensive
way to produce housing than the public housing programs, but it shifts more
of the burden from the State onto the private sector. The sites develo,ed
by the project would provide an incentive for self-help housing construction
and for a substantial mobilization of private savings and labor. Based on
experience in both Senegal and elsewhere, the value of private housing in-
vestment, assuming a typical dwelling of 60 m2, should be between about
US$800 and US$1,600 equivalent per lot, or a total of about US$14 million
for the project, over a ten-year period. Roughly 40% of this can be con-
sidered the product of the self-help component -- the difference between
the cost of materials and value of the completed dwelling. This calcula-
tion does not include the variety of ancillary structures that are often
built. Compared to the above private investments, the Government would
make an average investment of some US$460 equivalent per lot excluding
certain primary infrastructure normally provided from public funds. 1/
6.05      Based on available information on rents in Dakar, the likely
rental value of housing produced as a result of this project is estimated at
US$3.90 million per annum. Assuming a 20-year life of the housing structures,
this rent would result in a reate of return on the total US$21.4 million
investment of 18%, or if land value and self-help labor are excluded, a 27%
rate of return on an investment of U5S14.1 million. For a sensitivity analysis
a minimum rental value of US$2.40 million was estimated, which would yield
returns of 9.5% and 14% respectively for the above investments (Table 15).
6.06      The project would also have an important direct impact on employ-
ment. Labor costs for construction, including land preparation, installa-
tion of infrastructure and the building of schools, clinics and public
lavatories, would amount to about 30% of the project cost or sane US$4 mil-
lion equivalent. The involvement of some 16,000 families in the labor-
intensive task of constructing their own houses would also have direct em-
ployment consequences. Though it is not possible to estimate the extent,
experience indicates that families often hire labor from other families of
1/ Based on total cost of the project (including 25% contingencies) and tIh
complementary program (including value of land possessed by the Govern-
ment) but excluding construction costs of education and health facilities
and primary highway, water, and power infrastructure.



- 24 -
the area for a significant part of the work involved. There would also be
construction of structures to house the dependent land uses that accompany
any residential development; retail stores, entertainment establishments,
etc. Construction activity would stimulate the development of small labor-
intensive enterprises involved in the production of building materials.
From experience elsewhere, the employment creation benefits are likely to
ext&nd beyond the actual construction of the project and related housing.
The momentum from the community organization build-up and the realization
that self-help methods are practical can have a wider impetus to local
production and employment.
6.07      Major indirect socio-economic benefits are apparent.  The project
would provide greater control over the growth of two urban areas. This is
particularly the case with the Dakar project area both on account of its
size and location in relation to existing developed areas. At present,
urban growth is occurring on an ad hoc basis with settlement typically
preceding installment of infrastructure. The resulting random pattern
of settlement (often referred to as "leap-frogging") leads to considerably
higher costs in the eventual provision of public facilities. This results
from the linking of facilities, including transport, across unused or under-
utilized land between randomly .located population concentrations. More
orderly and contiguous development can be serviced more cheaply. Moreover,
cost of installing infrastructure in established squatter settlements or
poorly controlled private developments is increased by the need to remove
existing structures in clearing land for drainage, water and sewerage fa-
cilities, and roads. Also haphazard patterns of development are likely to
result in a less efficient layout of roads and facilities. Provision for
community services, such as schools, health centers and open space for
recreation, is also more expensive when installed after the land has been
settled than before. Information obtained in another country having had
substantial experience both with planned and unplanned settlements indicates
that costs of providing infrastructure in established settlements ranged
between 2 and 5 times the costs of developing infrastructure for new set-
tlements depending upon density and form of development.
6.08      Important social benefits would be obtained by households occupy-
ing the project areas. The quality of the physical environment would be
superior to that of the squatter settlements, the low and most of the medium
standard districts of Dakar (Annex 13) due to a combination of superior fa-
cilities and services, low densities and well designed site planning. The
better facilities and services would contribute to better health conditions
for the population. Health statistics show that in Dakar, cases of malaria
are reported primarily in squatter settlements while the other districts are
exempt. Also, in Dakar intestinal parasites are evidenced in 75% of the
children of squatter settlements versus 10% in other districts.
6.09      Consideration would also be given to the problem of considerable
stress that arises in confronting social change and a new physical environ-
ment brought about by the migrant's move from a more traditional rural en-
vironment to a less traditional urban one. By providing perceptible links
with familiar social and physical conditions through such factors as pro-
moting the maintenance of some traditional formal and informal institutions
and group settlement, and reducing the problem of finding adequate shelter
in the city, this stress would be reduced.



- 25 -
6.10      The project would also have an income distribution effect by di-
recting Government investment in housing and related facilities toward lower
income groups. The high standard housing being built by Government is fi-
nanced primarily by the housing tax levied against all workers with a regular
salaried income (para. 5.02). However, because of the high cost of OHLM
housing, access to such quarters has been reserved for people with salaries
above US$100-120 monthly. People with lower salaries have had no chance to
obtain OHLM housing or serviced sites, although they pay the housing tax.
Moreover, through their taxes they have been subsidizing the wealthiest,
since the OHLH sales prices and rents have only barely covered the housing
unit construction cost. Capital cost of land, infrastructure, interest and
management charges have not been included.
6.11      Besides constructing their own houses, the settlers would repay
the Government for its investment in land preparation and infrastructure
(excluding power and extensions of primary infrastructure networks) and thus
the non-recoverable element of public investment per household would be sub-
stantially smaller than it has been in public housing. Settlers would also
pay for management and financing charges and the only element of subsidy
would be land (see para 5.12). The investment fund into which the settlers'
payments would be made would, -over the 18-year period covering recovery of
project investment, obtain approximately US$7.0 million for reinvestment in
the National Site and Services Program. Complementary investments in educa-
tion and health facilities, technical assistance and primary infrastructure
are typically not charged directly to individual households.
6.12      The costs attributed to the settlers seem reasonable in compari-
son to present costs of other urban accommodation and are within their abil-
ity to pay while undertaking the construction of their dwellings. Monthly
payments for the typical serviced lot in Dakar, including interest, manage-
ment and water charges, would represent fron 3 to 8% of the monthly household
income of the target population. The very lowest income group of the lot
occupants, by expending the same amount on housing construction or US$9 a
month for both lot and house construction could complete a typical housing
unit of 60 m2 of floor space built in stages within 10 years using the
family's manpower and without taking into account any accumulated savings. 1/
Most households could complete their housing in less than half this time and
the poorer families could also reduce the time required by renting space to
others. In comparison, the typical monthly payment for a 60 m2 public hous-
ing unit on a 15-year mortgage basis has been US$25 equivalent. Current
expenditures for housing and water in the Medina, a district of Dakar with
medium residential standards (Annex 13), are about US$7.20 equivalent and
in the very low standard squatter settlement of Dakar Irreguliers, about
US$5.10 (Table 16). Transport expenditures would generally be higher in the
project area than in the central districts. In Pikine Ancien and Pikine Ir-
regulier household transport expenditures average some US$5 per month or
about double those in Dakar Irregulier, the central squatter settlement.
However, settlers of the project site would be households that have reached
a fairly stable income level and could afford such transport costs. In the
1/ The total cost of such a unit would be US$780 equivalent, of which about
60% would be for materials.



- 26 _
Medina, although a central location, household transport expenditures
average US$5.60 monthly.
6.13      Of the longer term aspects, the greatest benefit of the project
should be that of institution building. This would arise both from the
development of the OHtX directorate responsible for the National Site and
Services Program and from the influence on the overall housing program of
the Government. With regard to the former, the technical assistance element
of the project should result in a considerable upgrading of the management
capabilities of the Senegalese authorities. With regard to the second, the
conception of the project as part of a phased and flexible approach to the
housing problems of the country should provide the basis for extending and
adapting the program to meet future needs in other parts of the country as
well as Dakar and Thies, and provide a practical demonstration of the merits
of the site and services approach as compared to other ways of tackling the
problems.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     Daring negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
regarding:
(a) the reorganization of the executing agency OHLM to
carry out the National Site and Services Program (para.
5.04);
(b) the creation in OHIM of an investment fund for future
site and services projects that will receive the capital
and interest payments from the purchasers of the sites
developed by the project (para. 5.11);
(c) the personnel to be assigned to OHLM by other governmental
agencies for the execution of the project (para. 5.07); and
(d) Government provision for relocation of squatters in its
present squatter settlement removal program in a manner
not detrimental to the project (para. 4.12).
7.02 ,   The following will be conditions for effectiveness of the pro-
posed credit:
(a)  ratification of the project agreement by the OHLM Board
of Directors;
(b) completion of the OHLM decree for the purpose of carrying
out the National Site and Services Program (para. 5.01);
(c) decree instituting the building code for the project
areas (Annex 11);
(d) establishment of a model sales contract (Annex 10);



- 27 -
(e) employment of 5 technical assistants (para. 4.10);
(f)  establishment of a Site and Services Directorate, a Com-
munity Assistance Section and a Monitoring Committee in
OHLM (paras. 5.04-5.07);
(g) establishaent of model statutes for the Associations
Cooperatives d'Habitat (para. 5.06);
(h) appointment of an OHIM Director whoae qualifications
and experience are satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.03);
(i) employment of auditors satisfactory to the Association
(para. 5.11); and
(J)  establishment of terms of reference for the criteria study
(para. 4.12).
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$8.0 million to Senegal.






ANEX 1
Page 1
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
METROPOLITAN DAXAR - DEMGRAPHY
1.        Available statistical information on Dakar demography is scattered
in several documents. However, none of them indicate the accuracy of censuses,
surveys or estimates. Therefore, the figures suggested by the various sources
and given in Table i/ were compared to identify possible discrepancies.  Two
population estimates should be considered cautiously. The 1955's and the 1970's.
Most authors and statisticians agree that the former is underestimated and that
a 10% increase at least would be advisable. The 1970 figure comes from a pre-
liminary study in preparation to the comprehensive census of which final results
are not yet available. Forecasts had suggested a population of about 660,000
people for the Cap Vert Region in 1970, while an enumeration conducted prior to
the census itself gave a population of 548,000 for the Region.
A. Total Population - Past Trends
2.        The main features of the demographic evolution of Dakar are as
follows (see Table 1 and Chart 1):
a)   World War II broke trends that had materialized since the early
1920's. For two decades, population had increased with some
regularity- at a rate of 7.66% per year;
b)   after World War II, population growth resumed at a similar (or
higher) rate for approximately six to seven years, but slowed
down toward the mid-1950's; and
c)   since Independence in 1958, the deflation of the foreign
population increased the impression of fall for the population
growth rate, and the 1970 population can reasonably be estimated
at some 550,000.
3.        Should the 1960-68 trends be extrapolated, this would mean a 1980
population of about 700,000. This figure should be considered as an absolute
minimum since it implies that growth would continue at a rate which corresponds
actually to a period where massive departures took place.
1/ Tables presented in this appendix refer to the Dakar Metropolitan Area,
not to the city itself, nor to the entire Cap Vert Region.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Non-African Population
4.        The evolution of this population reveals the same structure as
the overall population of Dakar up to 1957 (Table 2, Chart 1). Since that
date, 15,000 to 20,000 foreigners left Dakar. However, no precise infor-
mation is available on the non-African community beyond 1961, when it began
to decrease. One source suggests that over the 1961-65 period the non-African
population would have decreased by some 16,000; however, the actual size of
the non-African population mentioned by this source has practically no common
measure with figures presented by other authors.
5.        On the basis of the evolution of the non-African population for
Senegal as a whole, it is estimated that the 1970 non-African population of
the Dakar Metropolitan Area should have been about 30,000. The same figure
will be kept for the non-African population in 1980 to account for continuing
out-migration on the one hand, and natural growth of this population on the
other.
African Population - Recent Evolution
6.        Between the two World Wars, the African population increased with
some regularity at an annual rate of 6.34% (Table 2, Chart 1). After World
War II, the rate went up to 13.3% over the 1945-48 period, then decreased to
6.81% between 1951 and 1961. It probably went below 6.0 between 1951 and
1970, since that rate would correspond to an African population of 550,000 in
1970 which we estimated to be the overall population in Dakar at that date.
7.        A substantial fraction of the population increase is due to migration.
For the year 1960, two sources provide information on natural growth rates:
the Census (C.) and the Municipal Records (M.R.).
Metropolitan Area      Cap Vert
Source                          C.      M.R.       C.      M.R.
Birth Rate %                   5.10     4.52      4.59     5.02
Death Rate %                   1.58     0.80      0.86     1.53
Rate of Natural Growth %       3.52     3.72      3.73     3.49
Source: Seck I; pp 48-49
Accounting for over- and/or under-estimate of these various rates, it seems
that 3.6% per year is a realistic figure for the rate of natural growth.
Consequently, the rate of migration in 1960 would be approximately 2.3p if
the overall growth rate for the African population nears 5.9%.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
B. African Population - Forecast
Natural Growth
8.        The rate of natural growth of the population of Senegal is expected
to go from a 2.2% in 1960 to a 2.6% in 1975, as an effect of a stable birth
rate and a decreasing death rate. The latter change will affect both urban
and rural areas, and is expected to increase preaaure on land. However, the
growing involvement of the Government in rural areas including the opening of
new areas in the southeast of the country may sucoeed in keeping that pressure
at a stable level, therefore keeping urban migration rates from increasing
substantially.
9.        Estimate of natural population changes for the entire country and
for Dakar are as follows:
Senegm aJ.               1960      1970     1975      1980
Birth rate %             4.6       4.6      4.6       4.6
Death rate %        -     2.4      2.2      2.0       1.8
Natural Growth Rate %    2.2       2.4      2.6       2.8
Dakar/
Birth rate %              4.8      4.8      4.8       4.8
Death rate %              1.2      1.1      1.1       1.0
Natural Growth Rate       3.6      3.7      3.7       3.8
a/  Country Economic Report.
b/  The estimate is based on the fact that the situation in Dakar already
reflects the betterment of health conditions to come in other places,
and further improvement will thus be slower than for the country as a
whole.
Mlgrations
10.       No document available differentiates the migration flows of Africans
from those of non-Africans. The rate ofgrowth by migration for the total
population remained between 2.3% and 3%V over the last 40 years. euring,the
same period, the rate of migration for non-Africans was about 3.5% fi Moreover,
the audden influx of non-Africans was mainly responsible for variation in the
1/ Dakar en Devenir; p. 49.
2/ Seck I; p. 48



AN-NEX 1
Page 4
growth rate of overall migration.    Therefore, two assumptions were
considereds
a)   the 1960's annual rate of 2.3% of growth by migration
for Africans is kept for the period 1970-80; and
b)   as an effect of the continuing Africanization of Dakar,
the migration rate would increase; in which case a 2.5%
seems plausible.
1980 Estimates
11.       The cumlation of the assumptions made for natural growth and for
migrations come up to two possible overall growth rates:
Hypotheses I          3.7 and 2.3    = 6.0% per year
Hypotheses II         3.8 and 2.5    = 6.3% per year.
In 1970, the African population was approximately 520,000 people. It would
thus be between 931,000 and 958,000 in 1980.
The Population of Metropolitan Dakar in 1980
12.       The estimates above of the African population and the estimated
non-African population of some 30,000 in 1980 would give a total for the
Metropolitan Area of Dakar in 1980 of 961,000 or 988,000 people.
13.       In 1967 the Dakar Master Plan consultants had forecasted a 1930
population of 1,133,000 for Dakar and in 1970 French consultants, BCDOL4,
forecasted a 1980 population of 943,000.
1/ See Table 2.
March 20, 1972



DAKAR METROPOLITAN AREA
POPULATION TRENDS
TOTAL POPULATION                                                                         NON-AFRICAN POPULATION                                                                             AFRICAN POPULATION
9000000                                                  ______9 0.000                                                                                                                        900,00
800.000                                                                                         80,000          -                                                                -       - 80,000-
lo(100.01____ __-                                                                    -          70,000                                                                                        700,000
0
600.00(S                                                  ____ - -- ------                      60,0(01                                                               ,-                      600,000                                        -__
SENEGAL
500.0(0____-00                                                                                                                                                                                500,0003                                                                           ___
C'AP VElT/
400.000- -                         - - -__               --'--           ---        -           40,. -___                                                                                     40.0)____
300.000                            - ---                                                         0300((    --..-.__0 -                      ____
DAKAH MEINOPOL TAN ARE
200,000                       -                ,-            --            _                     0.000                                      ____        ___
HL RECOED                                                     0 
I WW 131       (1 UNEHrESTIATED
1910O      1920         19.30       1040                    1060        1970        1900       1910        1920        1930        1940        1900        1960         1970        1980       1910        1920        1930        1940        1900         0960190lO 






ANNEX 2
Page J.
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
DAKAR - EMLOYMENT AND INCOME
A. Overall Employment - Past Trends
1.        Information on overall employment is available at three points in
time: 1955, 1964, 1969. However, the data came from three different sources,
the reliability of which cannot be appraised easily.  Moreover, inconsistency
in definitions makes any comparison difficult.
2.        1955:  The 1955 Census data are underestimated but they should
offer a gross picture of the situation at that date (it is generally agreed
that a 10% t9 15% increase of absolute figures is advisable). On the basis
of A.Hausez4L  employment was estimated as follows:
Population    Declared                     A            A
over 14 yrs       an        And have   Permanent   Temporary
of age      Occupation    a Job          Job         Job
Total           155,000         79,000      72,900      57,000       15,900
Africans        135,000         66,ooo      60,900      46,oo0       14,900
Non-Africans     20,000         13,000      12,000     vU,000         1,000
Accordingly, in 1955 some 37% of the active population (over 14 years of age)
were employed on a stable basis.
3.        1964:  In 1964 the following employment statistics were published
by the "Offi e de le Main d'Oeuvre"':
Mtropolitan Dakara/       Cj   Vert=
(Rural Areas Excluded)
Number                 Number
Emloyed      %         Employed     g
Agric-Forestry-Fishing                  653     ( 1.4)         763     ( 1-5)
Mining                                  703     ( 1.5)         667a/   ( 1.3)
Manufacturing                       12,914      (26.8)     14,516      (27.0)
Construction                         8,111      (16.8)      9,715      (18.6)
Public Utilities                     1,991      ( 4.1)      2,066      ( 3.9)
Banking, Insurance, Commerce         9,129      (19.0)      9,791 /   (18.7)
Transport                            9,297      (19.3)      9,212/   (17.6)
Other Services                       5,362      (11.1)      5,374      (10.3)
48,160     lOOi        52,104     100-
a/ Sourie: a. Hauser of cit., pp. 364-365.
F/ Source:  S. Diop - Dakar en Devenir, p.88.
c/ These figures are not compatible with their correspondent for the Metropolitan
Area.
1/ See Dakar en Devenir, pp. 360-361.



ANITIX 2
Page 2
4.        The information above was provided by employers and is not reliable
for the public sector (though the sector is responsible for a very substantial
part of all employment) and for agriculture.  In 1964 for Senegal as a whole 1
4,000 only of the non-tenured state Inployees were reported instead of 21.000-
In Dakar approximately 17,500 peopleV/ were working in the public sector. As-
suming that in Dakar the survey of the public sector was as poor as for the entire
country, then about 14,200 employees should be added to the totals presented
before. This alone would bring to 62,h00 the number of salaried people who in
1964 were employed on a fairly stable basis in the Dakar Metropolitan Area. If
the numb,r of agricultural workers is also adjusted the overall figure comes to
65,7003O Then tie, ratio of population employed. on a "permanent" basis to
active population--- is 28.7%.
5.        1969: In 1969 a socio-economic survey was conducted by Dutch
Consultant NEDECO. According to that survey 30% of the active population or
85,000 people could be considered as employed on a permanent basis.' This
covers persons:
- with a permanent salaried position;
- engaged in a private business (most of them in commerce);
- considered by their employer as non-permanent but whose
activity was in fact stable.
B. Forecast of 1980 Permanent African Employment
6.        The non-African population takes advantage of a privileged situation
which should not drastic a6   change over the next decade, despite continuing
trends of Africanization.-  The non-African population pa;i akes to a great
extent in the population of Dakar with permanent jobs; 61%L' of this active
population have a permanent activity.  We can, therefore, infgr that the cor-
responding ratio for the African population nears 28% in 1970_1 if we consider
that 30% is a realistic figure for that fraction o f the total active population
with a permanent job.  C?  quently, out of 85,800_/ stable positions occupied
in Dakar in 1970, 76,308_ would be held by Africans.  The 1970 sectorial
1/ See Hauser, op. cit., p. 363.
2/ See A. Diop, op. cit., p. 88 (The figure of 35,000 employees in Sznegal is
confirmed by Bank economic reports).
3/ Agriculture accounts for 5 to 6% of stable employment, cf. Haaser op. cit.,
p. 367 and NEDECO Report Plan Directeur, Tome II, Etudes Sociologiqus, Table 29.
4/  In 1964, the Dakar population was about 440,000 people, of which 52% were over
14 years of age (i.e. 229,000).
5/ NEDECO, op. cit.
E/ Which involves essentially public and para-public sectors.
f/ See Seck op. cit., p. 53.
V/ There are 577 non-Africans for 10,000 Africans.
9,' In 1970, the overall population is 550,000 people of which 52% (286,000) are
over 14 years of age.  If 30% of this active population have a job, then there
would be 85,8 Z0 jobs in 1970.
10/ The African population is 520,000 people in 1970 of which 270,400 are over 14
years of age. If about 28% of these have permanent jobs, then 76,300 positions
would be occupied by Africans.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
distribution of African employment given below is based on the 1964 distribution
given by Hauser-1 and adjusted for the agricultural and public sectors.
1970 African Employment
Dakar Metropolitan Area
Number
mployed       %
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing                  5,270     ( 6.9)
Mining                                            850     ( 1.1)
Manufacturing                                  15,540     (20.4)
Construction                                    9,980     (13.1)
Public Utilities                                2,440     ( 3.2)
Banking, Insurance, Commerce                    8,870     (11.6)
Transport                                      11,530     (15.1)
Other Services (Government included)           21,820     (28.6)
76,300     100
7.        For Senegal as a whole, the Bank economic mission has reviewed
production by economic sectors and forecasted growth rates as follows:
1965-63
(1961-4(1965-68)  1959-68  1968-74  1974-80  Share in GDP
Agriculture                  3.7               3.8     160                  31.2
Fishing                      5.2              )3.0 )                         3.
Mining                      1.4.7             )0)
Manufacturing                4.8          5.5)6.3   5.5) 7.7    5.5         13.5
Utilities                    8.0              )         )                    2.1
Construction                 1.1                          6.0                2.9
Transport                    5.0                          3.0                6.3
Public Administration       -4.3                          2.6               13.4
Other Sources                2.8                          5.3*              27.1
2.5                          5.5    5.0      100.0
* Staff estimate.
a/ Current Economic Situation and Prospects of Senegal.
Volume I - Main Report - p. 6.
b/  Ibid, p. 42; and Volume V, Industry, p.2.
c/' In a./, pp. 42-43 and b/, p. 34.
d/ In a/, p. 51a.
Note: The Bank Economic Mission (Volume V. p. 34i, June 1970) projected that
3.5% of the industrial production would be due to grawth of labor
productivity and 2% to growth in enployment.
L,' Op. cit., pp. 3(4-365; see Table No. 1.



AiZIX 2
P age 4o
8.        These national growth rates of production by sector have been
adapted to the limited context of the Dakar area and growth rates for
employment derived as follows:
Senegal       Dakar Metropolitan Area
Production      Production    E.ployment
1970-80         1970-80        1970-60
Growth Rate     Growth Rate   Grorth Uate
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing         6.0             6.Oa/          o.0
Mining, Manufacturing, Utilitics       6.14b            7.0
Construction                          6.0               8.o           4.0
Transport                             3.0              4.0            4.0
Services                              h.6              5.0             .O
a' This sector is considered to be geared essentially to "feeding" the Dakar
population, the growth rate of which nears o%.
b/ Resulting from four years at 7.7% per year and six years at 5.5% per year.
As a result, the number of permanent jobs held by Africans in the Dakar
Metropolitan area would be 118,560 in the year 1980. This figure corresponds
to a 4.5% average annual growth rate for permanent employment, while the
population will grow at approximately 6.2% over the same period (1970-80).
1980 African EmTployment
Dakar M4etropolitan Area
Number
Employed           p
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing         9,440            8.0
Mining, Manufacturing, Utilities    26,570             22.4
Construction                         15,500           13.1
Transport                            17,060           14.
Services                             49,990           42.1
118,560         100.0
C. 1980 Non-Permanent African Employment
9.        It should be reminded that the 118,560 figure for permanent
employment in 1980 (a) is related to the African population only, (b) includes
the artisan population, and (c) is probably slightly over-estimated, to the
extent that it results from a cumulation of sectorial projections based on
growth rates corresponding to the 1968-74 period. Later a decrease of these
rates is expected in the late 1970's following a recovery from the particularly
unfavorable conjuncture of the second half of the 1960's.



AMNEX 2
Page
10.       Beyond the permanently employed, a substantial fraction of the
population has temporary jobs. Four methods can be used to forecast the
volume of this employment:
a)   assume that this type of employment has the same growth
rate as permanent employment;
b)   assume that permanent_ and temporary employments are in a
constant proportion;z..
c)   assume that the fraction of the active populafton with
non-permanent employment is stable over time;=
d)   assume that the fraction of the active population with
permanent or non-permanent employment is stable over time.
However, the last method is a priori too optimistic given the projections
of permanent employment above. The other three methods suggest the
following figures: 21,000; 19,750; and 23,000. In fact, the third
method also fails to account for the gap between the growth rates of
population (about 6%) and permanent employment (about 4.5%).  Therefore, it
seems that a figure of 20,500 is most realistic for people employed on a
non-permanent basis in 1980.
D. Income Distribution - 1980
11.       The NEDECO Sociologicai/Survey (1969) provides income distributions
for four classes of "positions" :-  higher, middle, lower (modern), and
traditional. On the other hand, we have a description for 1964Z of
"professional status" by economic sector of activity (for Africans and
non-Africans). Definition of "positions" and Itstatus" seem coherent.
12.       It was assumed that the 1964 structures (Table 2) would not change
drastically except for the Service Sector (Government and other services,
plus the Bank-Insurance-Commerce Sector). For this sector, a new distribution
of positions (for Africans) was assumed to account for:
a)   stability in the Bank-Insurance-Commerce and in the other
services sub-sectors with regard to the positions occupied
by Africans;
b)   tendency for Africans to take over more positions offered
in Government related activities.
It was also assumed that income distribution for the "traditional" category
(Table 3) would apply to the permanently employed in Agriculture, Forestry, and
Fishing. The same distribution was used for the non-permanently employed,
except for the category of monthly incomes above CFAF100,000 (Table 3).
1/ See NEDECO, op. cit., Table 31.
T/ See Table 27 in NEDECO, op. cit.
'/  See IHauser, op. cit., pp. 364-365.



AiNNDTX 2
Page 6
13.      Finallyr, the 1980 income distribution of employed people in Dakar
derived in Table 4 can be suimuarized as follows:
Monthly Income         % of
(CFAF)          Enployed
0 - 15.,000       20.2
15,000 - 30,000        35.4
30,000 - 60,00o        21.5
60O000 - 100,000       11.3
Over 100,000       11.6
100.0
March 21, 1972



ANNEC 2
TABIE 1
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
DAKAR ETROPOLITAN AREA
1964 - AFRICAN ELOYNENT BY SECTOR
Declared               Adjusted
Permanent                        Employment
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing         634 (non-Africans:19)           3,9342/
M4ining                                638                              638
IIanufacturing                      11,600                           U1,600
Constru.ction                        7.,454                           7,454
Public Utilities                     1,824                            l,824
Banking Insurance Commerce           6,622 (non-Africans:2,507)       6,622
Transport                            8,607                            8,607
Government Le Other Services         4,286 (non-Africans:1,076)      16,2913/
41,665                           56,970
1/  Source:  -Iauser op. cit., pp 364-365.
2/ The 3,300 agricultural jobs not declared were assumed to be held by
Africans; the non-Africans on agriculture being a few and occupying
higher status positions.
3/  In Government, for the 17,500 positions recorded only 3,300 jobs were
reported. Of the 14,200 people to be added to previous figures, 12,000
were estimated to be Africans. This estimate was arrived at as follows:
In the "other services" sector 2,062 jobs were declared (4,286 + 1,076
- 3,300) of which 1,496 were assumed to be held by Africans (by analogy
with the "Banking, Insurance & Commerceit sector). Therefore, 2,790
Africans declared a job in government (4,286 - 1,496) for 510 non-Africans
(3,300 - 2,790). It was assumed that among people who had a job in
government but failed to declare it the ratio of Africans to total was the
same ( 85% ).  Thus, of the 14,200 additions to the "government" sector
jobs declared 12,005 were taken as Africans.
IArch 21, 1972



AiIEX 2
Page 8
TABLE 2
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
DAKAR M1ETRDPOLITAN AREA
DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYMINT
BY ECONOMIC SECTOR AND STATUS - 1964
(in percent)
Mining                                   Servlces
Manufacturing                                and
Africans                  Uttilities    Construction  Transport  Goverriment
(EDployers
Higher(E ecutives                                                 1.3          2.u
(Professionals
(Family Business
(Technicians
Middle(Skilled Wiorkers             1J.5           7.2           27.3
(Employees
(Semi-skilled Workers
Loower (Unskilled Workers            85.1         92.4           71.4         39.4
(Apprentices
100          100            100          100
* staff estimate
Source: Hauser, Dakar en Devenir, pp. 364-365.
March 21, 1972



A: I NE; C 2
Page 9
TABLE 3
SEiNEGAL
SITE AMD SERVICES PROJECT
D.KL'R IETROPOLITAIJ APLEA
I:NCOIE DISTRIBUTION FOR
TRADITIOiIAL AND NON-PERAIThENT EMPLODNT - 1969
Monthly                    SO of
Lincome (cFAF)             oloyed
O -  1f,000             35.0
11.,000 -  30,000             3,3.O
30,000 -  o0,000              o.0
c80,ooo - 100,000             1.0
Over  100,000             23.0
Total              100.0
Soturce:  E'ZCO - Table 27.
MTO0RA?IZ EI.LI'fY,2"T
riIonthly,pO
Income LCzAF)            Base            &ployed
0 -  15,000         35.0               45
1%000O  -  30,000        33.0               42
30,000 -  &)0,000         d.O                9
c.,0000 _ 100,000         1.0
Over  100,000          1.01
Total           7. v              100
Staff' estimate
M:arch 21, 1972



AM.LLK 2"
Page 10
TABLE 4
SEEG AL
SITE AIM  SERVICES PROJECT
DAKPR METROPOLITAN AREA
1980 - SECTORIAL ENPLOYMNT BY STATUS
Status
Total      Higher    Middle    Lower
Sectors                        Emloyment       (H)        (M)       (L)
"Iining Manufacturing Utilities   26,570        10       3, D53    22,o11
(100)     (0.4)     (14.5)    (5.1)
Construction                      15,500        62       1,lk       14,322
(100)     (0.4)     ( 7.2)    (92.4)
Transportation                    17,060       222       4,c57    12,1k1
(100)     (1.3)     (27.3)    (71.L4)
Services                          49,990     1,400      28, J91    19,096
(100)     (2.)      (57.u)    (39.1!)
Total             109,120      1,790     3, 520    co,d10
Source: Table 2.
-&.CEZNTAGE DISTRIbUTIOi'I LY STATUS OR SECTQOS ANID INCOI; GROUPS
(CEAF '000 per month)
Class                       0-15   15-30   30-50   50-100   Over 100   Total
THigher         1,790          0       1      23       28        h8       100
'ffiddic       30,520          1      17      43       27        12       100
Lower          68,310         22      4 5     15        6        12        100
TradItional     9,.4d0        35      3,       8        1        23       100
Teorcry       2.0,500         23 h2            9        3         1       100
aotal    1D9, 060
Source: NEDECO Table 27 ar:d Table 3.
19,0 - Ilicc"  DISTRIEUTT0iU OF =sTL--LD P,R0OhS
( CFAF  '000)
Class                    0-15    15-30    30-50    50-100    Over 100   Totl
1-nic                                J  .  . 
Higher                       0       11      41.        501       659       1,790
Middle                     385    o,540   16,5-5   10,400       4,b22      38,,20
Loier                  15,138   0,9C5   10,321       h, 12,9   8,257      o6i, ,10
Tradi tioialm            3,305    3,115      7.          9      2,11        9, !+
Tertoorary              9,225    ,oO       1,816        1J,       205      20,900
Total             26,052   10,21.  2:),v,3    ?-,739    1, 11,    19,cC;
20.2      ,5      21.+    1            11. o       1)0.0
Merch 23, 1972



ANITEX 3
Page 1
SENEGAL
SITE AMD SERVICES PROJECT
ESTIMATE OF INEEDS FOR SITE AID SERVICES PLOTS
A. Households' Incomes - 1968-69
1.        The survey conducted in 1968-69 by consultants NEDECO established
that households with income under CFAF100s000 per month were distributed as
follows:
Income
per month         Distribution I         Distribution II
(000 CFAF)      (HWNSI* excluded)        (EWNSI_included)
0 - 10               25.9                   31.3
10 - 20               31.9                   30.4
20 - 30               19.3                   17.5
30 - 40                9.0                    8.2
4o - 50                7.1                    6.4
50 - 100               6.8                    6.2
Total              100.0                   100.0
Number of House-
holds Surveyed          1201                   1321
* IIWNSI = households with no steady income
Source:   EDECOO, Sociological Survey, Table 4h
2.        The HWNSI represent some 9% of the households and their income
distribution is as follows:
Income
Per month        Absolute
(000 CFAF)        Number         ,^
0 - 10            102           85
10 - 20             18           15
120          100



ANNI!X 3
Page 2
B. Projected Household Size - 1980
3.        In 1961, the survey of family budgets revealed an average size
of 6.9 people (see Dakar en Devenir, pp. 251-252), on the basis of the two
following distributions:
Monthly                             Average
Expenditures           % of           Si7e of
(000 CFAF)         Households      Households
0 -  5                2.6             3.5
5 - lo              1l.6             3.5
10 - 15               21.1            5.8
15 - 20               17.1            6.5
20 - 30               18.9            8.0
30 - 50               15.9            8.8
Over 50                9.8           10.5
100.0            (6.58)
That survey did not cover households with income over CFAF100,000 per month
while these households are known to be among the largest. Therefore, it can
be assumed that in 1961 the average size of households was probably close to
7.0. In 1968-69, the African population of the Dakar area was of about
66,000 households with an average size of 7.2 people to which an avera-e or
0.65 other person% could be associated. Assuming that family size will con-
tinue to increase, it can be expected to reach some 7.4 persons in 19L00 to
whom 0.7 or 0.8 other persons might be associated. Therefore, the number of
households in Dakar area in 1980 should be close to 112,000.
C.  Projected Households Distribution by Income - 1980
4.        It was assumed that in 1980 steady income would be secured in 90',
of the households (an optimistic duplication of the situation around 1970)
by the head or some other member of the family.  The income distribution of
households was assumed to be the same as that of 1968-69 modified for those
with steady income.  For the HWNSI, they would be in the 0-10,000 CYAF per
month bracket for 90% of them; the rest would be in the next income bracket.
The overall income distribution (for households with less than CFAF 100,000
per month) is as follows:
1/ Which seems coherent with the stable birth rate and the decreasing death
rate identified in Appendix 1 on demography.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Monthly Income                           Households with less than
Bracket          HWSI      HWNSI       100,000 CFAF per month
('000 OFAF)         (W) (%)                      (%)
0- 10             27        90                33.3
10 - 20           32         10                29.8
20 - 30           19                           17.1
30-  40             9                           8.1
40 - 50             7                           6.3
50 - 100            6                           5.4
Tot.al         100        100               100.0
Weight         0.9        0.1
5.        Adding the fraction of households with incomes above CFAF100,OOO
per month or about 2,% of all households (see NEDECO, sociological survey,
Table 40) gives the following 1980 household income distribution:
Monthly Income         Total Number of
(000 CFAF)              Households
0 - 10                  36,540
10 - 20                  32,720
20 - 30                  18,770
30 - 40                   8,890   109,760
40 - 50                   6,910
50 - 100                  5,930
Over 100                - 7     - (2% of total)
112,000
D. Estimate of Needs for Site and Services Plots
6.        Income Bracket for the Target Population:  The lots to be developed
by the project are directed to families with incomes too low to qualify for
public housing of the OHLM type, but however sufficient to (a) pay the monthly
installments on the lots and (b) invest in the construction and improvement of
their housing. These two constraints determine the upper and lower income
limits to qualify for a lot in the project.
7.        So far, the access to OHLM housing has been limited to families in
which the principal wage earner has a stable income of at least CFAF 25,000
(US$98) per month.  Since 0M,IM intends now to reduce the amount of subsidy
that was previously applied to its rents and sales by including all project
costs into rent calculation (subsidization would remain in the form of very
low interest rates), the minimum income of potential OHLM customers will tend
to rise. Consequently, the upper income limit to qualify for a lot under the
project has been set at CFAF 30,000 (US$117) per month for the principal wage



ANNEX 3
Page l;
earner, which corresponds to a family income of some CFAF37,1)0 (US$145).
Chart 1 shows the relationship between the principal income in the family
and total family revenues. This upper income limit will be increased up to
CFAFM50,JJ0 in the case of very large families (10 children or more) which,
although they could afford public housing, would not have enough floor space.
A9.       The lower income limit is more difficult to define in view of the
lack of detailed information on the very low income segment of the population.
Also, it is likely that whatever limit is set, there will be people below
it that would be willing to pay for a site and build some housing, while some
above the limit would not. Based on available information, it appears that
the lower monthly family income limit for the project's target population
should be in the CFAF10,000 to 15,000 range.  The Government has proposed t.
require that people applying for a site can justify a minimum income
(principal earner) of CFAF12,000 (US$47) per month, corresponding to a
monthly family income of some CFAF14,500 (US$57).  This figure corresponds
to the officially defined "minimum salary" or SMIG (Salaire i4inimum
Interprofessionnel Garanti). Although such a figure is rather theoretical
in Senegal, given the high level of unemployment, it still reflects a
minimum deemed necessary to live beyond a mere subsistence level. FurtnIer-
more, this income should be sufficient to permit the family to build a
cheap, but decent, house over a reasonable period of about 6 years without
accounting for any savings that they may have.
9.        The need for urban accommodation of families in the income brackek
described above consists of two parts: (a) the need related to the growth of
the population, and (b) the unsatisfied need of the existing population living
in districts with low and very low residential environmental conditions. These
needs have been estimated in detail for Dakar where socio-economic data are
available (para. 12 to 18). The estimate of needs for Thies is more global.
13.       Need of the Growing Dakar Population:  In 1973 of all the 614,700
households with monthly incomes under CFAF100,300, some 85' or 55,'D)) households
had monthly incomes under CFAF37,000 (see Chart 2). In 1983, it is estimated
that of the 110,030 households with less than CFAF103,):00 monthly, some 93,))J
will have less than CFAF37,000. Consequently, over the ten-year period, it
is estimated that some 3d,000 new households would be below the upper income
limit set for the project's target population.
11.       Using the Governmmnt propoeed amnthly household income (para. 8)
of CFAF14,500 as the lover inme   limit of the project's target population,
it is estimated that a little less than half of these 38,000 households or
some 17,000 would be in the bracket qualifying them for a project site. The
yearly arithmetical average over the decade would be 1,700 households. The
average which would be lower during the early years has been aasumed at some
1,500 and the need of new population orrer the five-year period that would
elapse between the signing of the loan and completion of project works would
be of the order of 7,500 lots.



ANNEXA
Page 5
12.    Unsatisfied Needs of the Edsting Dakar Population:  The large
backlog of unsatisfied needs for urban accamodation in the present Dakar
population is illustrated by (a) the backog of demands in CELM, of a total
of 8,00, 4,500 are in the income bracket considered for the project, and
(b) the applications for sites regiatered by the Ministry of Pinance    --
(Direction des Domaines) and numbering some 3,500.  These demands emanate
not only from the population in the very low standard residential districts
(scme of which the Government plans to eradicate), but also from families
in other districts that have been forced, for lack of alternative, to double
up with relatives or friends.   The site and services project is thus geared
to improve the living conditions of these groups.
13.    It is very difficult to estimate precisely the unsatisfied needs.
On one hand, the demands registered by OHLM and the Ministry of Finance
represent only the expressed demand of these populations; on the other
hand, it is likely that some of the applicants registered with OHLM and with
the Ministry of Finance are the same and adding both figures would involve
double counting.   It has been assumed that the backlog of 4h,500 demands in
OHLM would represent a m±nlz2xm estimate of the unsatisfied need and should
thus be covered by the project.
14.     The very low standard  residential districts in the Dakar metropolitan
area have a population of some 105,000.1/ Over the next few years, the
Government intends to eradicate some of these districts with a total popula-
tion of some 75,000 to 80,000 or ame 10,700 - 11.,400 families. The main
area to be cleared (Dakar Irreguliers) consists of the settlements east and
west of the freeway vith a total population of sace 65,000 people (see paras.
3.7 - 3.9).   East of the freeway the area will give way to some expansion
of the induastrial zone, while weat of the freeway the land recovered will
be used for the second and third phase of a public housing program initiated
with the Third Plan in 1969 (Ouagou Niayeo).  The eradication of these
settlements has been decided by the Governmonts and the first phase is to
be implemented in March-April 1972 with the relocation of some 3,000 families
on some 100 ha being developed in the northeast of Pikine (zone LMN).  This
would leave another 7,700 - 81400 families to be eventuaLly relocated.
15.     The NEDECO survey reveals that in the very low standard residential
areas, only about 50% of the households have incomes that would qualify them
for a project site.   This means that from the total number of households
that would eventually be relocated after 1972, some 4,000 would qualify for
project sites.   Because some of them are probably alreadl registered with
OHLM, and the exact pace of eradication to be followed by Government is not
clearly defined at this time, a provision of some 2,000 sites has been estimated
as a reasonable amount to provide by the project for people relocated from
squatter settlements.
1/ This figure does not include Pikine Extension, the site and services project
carried out by the Government, which although still with very low standards
can be improved in situ without any relocation of population.



ANNlEX 3
Page 6
16.     Total Needs in Dakar: In summary, the total need for serviced lots
over the project period is estimated as follows:
Number of Lots
Pqpulation Incroase                            7,500
Unsatisfied Need of Existing
Pcpulation                                   4,500
Relocation frcm Eradicated
Squatter Settlements                         2,000
14,000
At the overall density retained for the project of 35 lots per hectare, the
need would correapond to about 100 ha per year over a four-year period.
17.     The accammodation to be provided by the project would thus not only
serve the new population within the relevant income groups but also the
accumulated needs of the population presently living in low and very low
standard residential districts of the city.   The table above was only de-
veloped to arrive at an estimate of total needs, it does not imply that the
population increase would be served first, but it is expected that there
would be a mix aince the early assignments of project lots.   The backlog
of demand that could afford OHLM units would not be served by the project
since their income is too high.   It is expected that the private supply
of houses could be expanded if a mortgage market were developed.   The UN
technical assistant to the MPWUT would consider this aspect of the national
housing policy and program.
18.    Following completion of the project, the annual needs would be
limited mainly to those of the population growth, with possibly a few more
lots for the unsatisfied demand above the minimum estimate covered by the
proJect.   The anusl need would then be botween 1,800 and 2,000 lots per
year corresponding to some 50 to 60 ha per year.
19.    Needs in Thies:   In Thies the population is expected to grow by
some 5,000 persons per year, or 700 fandlies.   In Dakar the portion of
the population which cm afford either a site or public housing is about
60% of the total.   Assuming the same proportion applies to Thies, there
would be an annual need for some 420 sites and housing units.   OHLM cpera-
tions in Thieshhave averaged about 30 units in the past.   Assuming that
programs of similar size will continue in the future the need for sites
would thus be of the order of 400 per year.
April 9, 1972



ANNEX 3
Chart 1
DAKAR METROPOLITAN AREA
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
TOTAL FAMILY INCOME AND
Ilcome ct household                    HEAD  OF HOUSEHOLD  INCOME
(000 CFAF per monthl
/01
ZO~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..
60                                                                            a 1   1  _  _ 
50                                <0
40!  37i                                            c XS 3
30                                   /
, te    |           ~~~~b. HLM 
c. PASS TIROIR
g/t                            d. M\EDINA|
VI            o |e. GRAND DAKAR
f IRREGULIERS DAKAR
20f-_                 |9g. PIKINE ANCIEN
h<3/                      |           h. PIKINE EXTENSION
14* 5 _ _ _e. PIKINE IRREGULIERS
10                                                                                     _ _ _
0               10             20             30             40             50             60
t000 CFAF per month-l
Income
Head of household
Source NEDECO   Sociological Survey - tables 42 and 43                    World Bank 6493 .2)






ANNF.X 3
DAKAR METROPOLITAN AREA                                             CHART 2
CUMULATED HOUSEHOLD INCOME DISTRIBUTION
100 I
90
80               --
-/                1I
70_                 o
60                      "   .             __ j  _     _
w|                      II                                       I
50    4                              19
0~~~~~17
40    /_:_.----_
30 
20
(000 CFAF per month)
0      10    20   30    40    50    60    70   80    90   100
100   1                                                           -
901          870
80 ____ __
70 _             /
60                                .
,  S    48.5  I#:1                      9B
40        8                         1980
30     *t                                      .
20                                                   1
(000 CFAF per month)
I           I            L                                    _ 0  I
0      1 0    20    30   40    50    60    70    80    90    1 00






ANINEX 4
Page 1
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
URBAN TRANSPORT
A. General
I.   Dakar
1.        In 1971 the Dakar Metropolitan Area had about 45% of all passenger
cars in S-negal or some 16,500 vehicles.  This corresponds to one car for
every 33 persons in the area. Public transport is provided by a public bus
company, by small private buses  (cari rapides)and by some 1,200 taxis.  The
public bus conpany operates some 230 regular size buses on some 20 routes
covering the entire metropolitan area.  However, because of poor maintenance
only about half of the stock operates on any given day. The private buses
are open mini-buses run by independent operators.. Some 350 have been author-
ized in the Dakar area; apparently many of the 550 licensed for other
areas of Senegal also operate in Dakar, In principle, the mini-buses
have assigned routes but these are not alwayj respected by the operators.
Somewhat cheaper than the public buses, they offer convenient and
flexible service,
B. Transport Requirements of the Project Area
2.        The project area, when fully occupied with some
120,000 to 150,000 people,will require a considerable extension of the public
transport services to link it with the rest of the urban area. The order of
magnitude of the need can be estimated on the basis of an April 1971 surveyr
that covered all traffic to and from Pckine over a 24-hour period. The
information provided by this survey is of particular relevance since (a) the
project area is in the same general location as Pikine north of the Dakar-Thies
highway, and (b) the population involved in the project will have a socio-economic
profile comparable to that of the Pikine population.
Pikine Total Vehicle Trips Generation (1971)
3.        Following is the distribution of vehicle trips between Pikine and
the rest of Dakar as recorded in 1971.



AiN1jIX a
page 2
24-Hour Vehicle MovementsY/ - Pikine 1971
Origin/Destination          To Pikine        Fr-om Pakine          Total
Plateau                   2,523  ( 58-2)    2,596  ( 64.0)    5,119  ( 61.0)
Grand Dakar - SICAP         970  ( 22-4)      658  ( 16.2)    1,628  ( 19.4)
Industrial Zone -
Port- Fann                373  (  B.6)      359  ( 8.8)        732  ( 6.7)
Medina- Fann                341  (  7.9)      300  ( 7.4)        6L1  ( 7.7)
Rest of Metrop. Area        127  ( 2.9)       144    ( 3.61      271  L3.2)
Sub-total             ,343  (100.0)    4,057  (100.0)    8,391  (100.0)
Outside Metrop. Area        383                118               501
(as a percent of total)          (  8.2)            ( 2)8)
Total                4,717             4h175               8,892
1/  Figures include some 501 vehicle movements (262 to and 239 from the area)
which may involve actually the village of Camberene rather than Pikine
itself.
The following conclusions can be drawn from the previous table:
(a) most trips (61%) are bound for the central business district
(Plateau), the principal location of employment in the tertiary
sector. Next, the twenty-five year old northern development of
Crand Dakar attracts 19% of all trips, probably due to the
location of the important Thilone market in this district.
b)   areas where activities related to the secondary sector (industrial
zone and Hann) and primary transport services (port) are located,
generate less than 9% of all movements.
Modal Split between Dakar and Pikine
4.        Following is the distribution of vehicle movementsamong transport
modes:
Two Ways       _    _
Public buse s               714   (  8.0)       15,457  ( 30.7)?-/
Cars rapides              1,989   ( 22.4)       19,890  ( 39.5)
Automobiles               3,895   ( 43-8)        n.a.   ( l9.4)
Taxis                     1,263   ( l4.2)        n.a.   ( b.3)
Vans and trucks           l,031   ( 11.6)         n.a.   ( 4.1)
Total               8,892   (100.0)        5o,35/(100lO.O)
1/  Including the 501 vehicles to Camberene mentioned before.
T/ Estimated on the baais of 2.5 pasaengers per automobile and taxi and
2.0 passengers per van or truck.



AN1M-LK 4
Page 3
The table above shows that about 70% of the people are using buses (either
public or private). Further information shows that private buses operate
on the average at 70% of capacity while public buses operate at only 35%
of capacity. This seems to reflect a definite preference of the user for
the mini-buses and would justify an extension of the system. However, the
Goverment reportedly intends to limit the number of mini-buses operating
in Dakar.
Project Transport Reqtuirements
5.        Following are estimated public tranaport requirements for 1978
based on information relative to Pikine. It is assumed that the
project area will not achieve ixmaediately the degree of socio-economic
integration existing in Pikine, and will at first be more dependent upon the
rest of the city and generate more trips. The rate of car ownership is also
likely to be lower at first.
Pikine         IBRD project
(1971 data)    t1978 estimate)
Population                                        130,000           120,000
Trips taken by local residents (per day)           23,620            25,100
Fraction of those trips taken by bus                 70.2%             75J
Number of trips by bus                             16,590            18,830
Share of cars rapides in these trips                 56.3%             65,
NIumber of trips by cars rapides                    9,340            12,240
Average number of passengers per vehicle               10                141J
TNumber of vehicle trips                              934               674
Average number of trips per vehicle                    12                12
Number of cars rapides utilized                        78                73
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----_
ilumber of trips by public buses                    7,250             6,590
Average number of passengers per vehicle               22                252/
ITumber of vehicle trips                              335               264
Average number of trips per vehicle                  10.5              10.5
..umner of public buses utilized                       32                25
1/ Optimistic assumption.
2/ Fare structures do not change substantially, increased frequency
of service will be necessary to attract this loading.



AN;NEX 4
Page 4
6.        These estimates suggest that both fleets of public and private
buses serving the northern part of the metropolitan area should be substan-
tially increase d from now to 1978: 78% for public buses (fram 32 to about
57) and 94% for private buses (from 78 to about 151) if the project area
is to be serviced satisfactorily.
7.        For the project area to be well serviced for people commuting
to the city, sufficient connections to existing primary infrastructure
(route Dakar-Thies and its western extension toward the airport) should be
provided. While access to Pikine today is practically limited to a single
spinal artery - with a load of 6,420 vehicles per day - the project area
could easily have two main accesses of similar capacity (see map 5). The
routes through the Builders' development and the Grande Niaye would require
only limited local improvements.  Later, when the northern highway is
constructed, it could be connected to the Dakar-Thies highway to supplement
other project accesses to the city and improve utilization of the latter
highway.
II. Thies
8.        The city of Thies is-much smaller than Dakar and most trips
are done on foot. The city has no public bus service. Privately owned
operated horse drawn carts serve as taxis. The development of the
project area is not expected to require the introduction of any new
transport service.
1/ Taking advantage of residual capacity on existing buses allows only
very small reductions in these requirements. For car rapides, this
residue is small. For public buses, limited opportunities are
available for re-routing without substantially lengthening total
trip durations, if buses were to service both Pikine and the project
on every trip.
April 9, 1972



ANNEX 5
Page1
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PRDJECT
SITE PLAN
Spatial Hierarchy
1.        The primary objectives guiding the proposed design were:
a)   as little obstacle as possible be made to the immediate and
later developments of activities and services in the project
area;
b)   primary spatial structuring allow for the possible enrgence
of clusters where comuunal life could develop and evolve; and
c)   arAple opportunity be provided for easy communications and
relations at various levels.
The following levels of spatlal organization are tbhrefore suggsted,
corresponding to different orders of activities and functions:
Size in
No. of plots       Functional-Physical Features   Structuring Physical
Level       (and area, ha)        (needed or recommended)              Elements
Project Unit      about 3,500    1 council of chefs de quartier   Arteries (permitting
(about 6                          1 organized market (area             efficient drainage
neighborhoods)    (about 100)        hal)                              of area by public
1 health center                     transport)
1 secondary school                Main open spaces
1 playfield (area = ha2)
Neighborhood       about 600      1 local committee of chefs         local roads (for
(about 6                            de quartier                        emergency needs
quartiers)         (about 17)     1 primary school (with work-         and micro distri-
shop and evening education        bution)
center)
1 industrial park (area -
ha2/3 every two districts)
,Quartier         about 100       1 chef de quartier                 1 public square
(about 10                         1 public fountain                 Main walkways
clusters)          (about 3)     (1 local loans and savings          secondary public squares
association)                    (as articulations of
walkways)
Cluster           6-12            a common open space                semi-public spaces
(6-12                                                                 opening onto secondary
plots)             (about .2)                                         walkways
This framework was induced through consideration of both the norms recommended by
various Government technioal services and consultant.' gtudies, and the viable
patterns of existing community organization that still underlie strongly the life of
Senegal' s population.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Site Plan Scheme
3.        The project will sall for considerable community participation.
Great flexibility and opportunity in land subdivision schemes are therefore
necessary, so that residents can use their environment as it suits them;
e.g. installing shops opening on public squares, reserving particular
locations for institutions l/ or religious uses, or manipulating plot
layouts so as to promote the development of "souks."
4.        A site plan scheme was designed that is capable of serving as
a base for further refinement or development of alternatives. The scheme
(see Map 8) relies upon a primary square unit composed of 6 olots around
an open space. This cluster of plots (32.2 m wide) can be rotated to present
different sides to neighboring units. Simultaneously, a small change in
position of a constituting plot can provide an additional access to the
inner open space shared by surrounding plots, so as to create a passage
through the unit. Fqur plots out of the six_/ have 9.3 x 16.1 m dimensions.
The two other plots3, are 11.1 x 13.5 m in dimension.
5.        As opposed to the proportions of plot sides (e.g. 1 to 3) selected
for similar projects in other developing countries, here the plots suggested
have larger frontages. However, this difference comes from two facts. Firs ,
other plot layouts were tried in Senegal and revealed that they did not cor-
respond   to the population's desires.  Second, proportions usually recommended
account for the necessity of narrow plot frontages to make the best use of
water and sewerage pipes laid along the streets. However, in this project,
this requirement is softened by the non-existence of sewerage lines and the
low fraction of plots to be serviced individually with water. Later increase
of this fraction should not lead to high additional costs since interior plots
should then be easily serviced by pulling a pipe into the court to supply at
leastL/ 3 new plots.
6.        Beyond the flexibility offered by similar type layouts, one should
mention the additional advantage they present in terms of maintenance. It has
been noticed that maintenance by residents is hard to obtain as long as the
group involved is farily large - everyone refusing to accept his responsibilities
1/ For example, residence of the chef de quartier and his council.
2/ All of them having an area of 150 sq mi.
3/ Of which the one that may provide additional access to the unit by simple
change of position.
hi And up to 6, if the 6 plot-unit is not directly contiguous to a walkway
but backed by a series of plots themselves on the walkway.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
and relying upon public agencies. By providing "semi-public" cpen spaces,
it is expected that self-policing will materialize and improper behavior
can more easily be spotted. The cluster is already a more intimate place.
It can be expected similarly that without public intervention, these open
spaces will be planted by residents themselves. Finally, the primary cluster
unit can pravide the basic foundation on which to begin to bring people
together on questions concerning their daily life and where cooperation can
easily enhance their well-being.
March 21, 1972






ANNEX 5
Page 4
TAB 1
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
DAKAR PROJECT LAND USE PROFILE
Habitat                                                   60.7%
Services                                                  15.6%
Schools primary and secondary         - 10.0
Market and industrial zone            -  3.0
Cultural facilities and stadium       -  2.0
Health and administrative facilities -  0.6
Circulation and open spaces                                23.7%
Local roads                           -  5.6
Walkways                              - 12.7
Squares                               -  54
Total     100%
March 20, 1972






6
SENEGAL
SITE AND SIRVICES PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        Dae to the considerable magnitude of the proposed project, its
novelty. the bigh degree of reliance on self-helpt and the underdeloped
state of the govermental agency to be given responsibility for   g
and inplemnting the project, technical assistane wifl be required for
managnemnt and trai     .  This assistance will be financed from two
sources: the Association, as part of the credit; and the U.N. as part of
its technical assistance program.
A. Technical Assistance Pinanoed by the Project
2.        The experts will be selected in consultation with the Association.
Appointments of experts a), c), and d) belov will be a condition of effect-
iveness of the credit.  The- tasks to be p arnmed by the experts are dekiti.d
below:
a)  Expert in housing management and program development for low
income group - e appointment will be for two years, with
a possible two year extension. 'The expert would serve as
the head of the new directorate of OhM responsible for the
agency's site and services and community improvements program.
He will be designated Project Manager of the Eank oroject and
will be responsible to the Director osneral of CH{M. His principal
tasks will be to develop the managerial capabilities of the
new division, formulate the national programs, and train a
counterpart to replace him. The expert should be assigned to
Senegal as early as possible after loan approval.
b)  Expert in accounting and comptrolling - The appointment will
be for two years with a possible one year extension. A counter-
part Goverrment official will be assigned to the expert for
training. The expert will establish and manage a commercial
system of accounting and procedures for dispersal and receipt
of funds. He will be assigned to the Site and Services
Directorate of OHLM. However, if the presently contemplated
CCCE technical assistance in accounting for the housing
division of OHLM does not materialize, the expert ehould be
assigned to work in both divisions of the agency, be assigned
to work in both divisimns of the agency, be assigned two
counterpart officials for training and the possible extension
period be for two years. He should be assigned to Senegal
immediately prior to the fiistreview of bids for civil works-



A1x 6
Page 2
c)  Civil Engineer expert in low-cost urban infrastructure - This
expert is required for two years with a possible one-year extension
and a counterpart Government official will be assigned to him for
training. He will be assigned to the Site and Services Directorate
of OHLM and assist the agency in preparing detailed engineering
designs for site and services and improvements in public facilities
in existing low-income residential areas, and supervise construction.
He will also assist the national techniml institute in developir- a
curriculum in low-cost infrastructure systems.  His appoint*ent 5ho1,'d
commence as early as possible after the loan agreement is finalized.
d)  Expert in saving and credit mechanisms - to be appointed for a twro-
year period with the possibility of a one-year extension.  He will
be assigned to the Community Organization Section (CCz) of OHLII an'l
a counterpart Government official will be assigned to him for train-
ing. His task will be to lead the community development staff in
formlating a program for establishing savings and credit associations
in the nroject areas and subsequently aid in the advising of local
associations and the monitoring of their activities.  Initially, he
will concentrate on developing recommendations for a credit function
of the associations. Hia appointment should commence as early as
possible after loan approval.
e) Expert in the economic aspects of community development - to be
appointed for a two-year period with the possibility of a one-year
extension.  He will be assigned to the COS of OHLM and a counterpart
Government official will be assigned to him for training. Within
the community development program, the expert will concentrate on
the organization of small-scale savings associations for buying build-
ing materials, starting small-scale industries and collection of OHLM
payments. He will also assist local inhabitants to develop their
income potential through promoting small-scale enterprises, co-ops and
establishment of carpentry training and other action programs. He
will be a membly of the CELM Steering Committee on cammuiity develop-
ment programs - In carrying out his job, he will work closely with
SONEPI. This expert should begin his work in Senegal six months
prior to the first occupancy of the serviced sites.
1/ See Annex 7 for a description of the committee.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
B. United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) Technical Assistance
3.        Prior to the U.N. rission in the spring of 1971 to Western Africa
to discuss with governments of the area UNDP assistance in dealing with the
problems of slums and squatter settlements, discussions were held between
the Bank and the U.N, on baw such assistance could aid in the undertaking of
a possible World Bank site and services project in Senegal. Through subsequent
discussions on this subject among the two international bodies and the
Government of Senegal, general agreement has been reacbed on the role UNDP
technical assistance would play.  The funtios of technical assistance
expertise financed by the U.N. are described belowt
a)  Housing Policy and Prograunvg Expert - Required for a
period of two years with the possibility of one year
extension to assist the Government in formulating a
national housing policy and related investment programs.
Housing is understood to include both the superstructure
and related public infrastructure (water, sewerage,
electrification, local roads) and to address the needs
of all socio-economic groups in rural and urban areas.
The expert will be assigned to the Ministry of Public
Works and will be assisted by a counterpart Government
official for training. He should be appointed at the
earliest possible date.
b) Expert in Building, Building Materials and Low Cost Con-
struction Techniques - This wxpertts services will be
required for one year with a possible one year extension.
A counterpart Government official will be assigned to him
for training. His objectives will be to reduce building
costs for the moderate incoo housing division of OHLM, design
model developmental housing types for the occupants of the
serviced sites, rationalize the production and supply systems
of building materials, and assist in the formulation of a
technical assistanc program in housing construction at the
national technical institute. His appointment to Senegal
should oeonce as early as possible.
C. Internal Technical Assistance
National Technical Institute
4.        Senegal has a post-secondary technical institute for the training
of sub-professionals in engineering fields .1 The Government has agreed to
have as part of the civil engineering curriculum a technical assistance program
to aid occupants of the serviced sites to build their houses. As noted above,
g/  1he institute presently offering this training is the Ecole des Travaux
Publics which has an enrollment of about 150 students. However, the
World Bank has recently approved a loan for a new institute, Institut
Universitaire de Technologie for 565 students which will commence in-
structions around 1975 and replace the Ecole des Travaux Publics.



ANNEX 6
Page h4
the civil engineer and building expert will assist the technical
institute in developing this assistance program.
Ministry of Health
5.        With the assistance of WHO, Senegal has established a school
to train persbnnel in the construction of sanitary facilities, pit
latrines and septic tanks. The Ministry of Health has agreed to assign
six graduates from this school (agents techniques d'assainissement) to
the project area to assist the site occupants in building their sanitary
facilities.
April 8, 1972



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT ELEMENTS AND DETAILED COST ESTIMATES - DAKAR
A. Site Preparation
1.        Site preparation consists essentially of six tasks:
a)  topography measuring and mapping;
b) topography remodeling study;
c) clearing of freshwood, earthworks and grading;
d) staking out and checking remodeled topography;
e) staking roads and public utilities lines;
f) marking out of plots, public spaces and facilities.
2.        In practice, these tasks are performed by pairs:  a-b, c-d,
and e-f.  Tasks c) and d) are the costliest and will be considered
separately. Costs per hectare of the other tasks are as follows:
(CFAF 000)
per ha
Total        Salaries           Machinery
Tasks     Cost      Local  Foreign      Local  Foreign    Taxes
a-b        30         3       14         -         9         4
e-f        70        15       37         -         8        10
100       1r5     7_1                  17        -2;
3.        Tasks c) and d) are performed by the same agent.  Cost estimates
are based on CFAF300 per cubic meter moved over a distance not exceeding
300 meters. This overall cost covers all sub-components of the duties
described and can be decomposed as follows:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(CFAF per CM moved)
Total       Salaries             Machinery
Task     Cost      Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign    Taxes
c-d       300       50      18           15      147         7i
4.        The volume of earth%orks depends upon the characteristics of
the area and the slope standards to be achieved by grading. Previous
experience in the Pikine Area (see text para. 6.11) led to retaining
maximum and minimum grades of 6% and 1%. A substantial uncertainty
impairs estimates of earthworks volumes since critical topographical
features can be identified only on maps at 1/2,000 scale which will be
prepared for carrying out the detailed engineering.
5.        The volume of earthworks has been estimated on the basis of a
13() ha sample. The sample presents a range of topographical characteristics,
and resulting volumes range from some 4,100 cubic meters per hectare to
7,6&)0 cm/ha. An average volume of 5,850 cm/ha was assumed for the entire
protect site (400 ha). Total earthworks costs are given in Table 6.
B. Streets
6.        The credit will not cover primary road infrastructures.  In
the project, two types of roads are considered. The higher standard type
(called Vh in Senegalese nomenclature) has the following characteristics:
Overall width                                 20 m
Width of formation                              9 m
Width of traveled way                          5 m
Traveled way    )base thickness               15 cm
Shoulders                                     12-15 cm
Traveled way        m                         laterite
Shoulders       J  material                   laterite
Surface treatment of                          single coat of
traveled way                                   asphalt on a
5.5 m width
The secon4 type of roads planned for the project corresponds to an economic
Vh type.!/ Its characteristics are as follows:
l/ This type of roads would: a) complement the road network composed by
roads of primary hierarchical levels and by V4 roads; and b) be readily
adaptable to satisfy possible future needs for a smaller mesh network.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Overall width                     14 m
Width of formation                 5 m
Formation material                laterite
Formation thickness               15 cm
Surface treatment                 none
Unit costs of these roads are given in Table 1.
7.        For the 130 ha studied in greater detail, the needs for road
infrastructures were estimated at 2,696 l.m. for V4 and 1,230 l.m. for
the lower standard streets. For the entire project area, road infra-
structures are 8,700 l.m. and 3,400 l.m. respectively for V4 and other
roAds. Total costs of roads are given in Table 6.
3.        The investment that the Government will have to include in its
budget for the construction of higher standard roads needed by the develop-
ment was also estimated. The cost per linear meter of secondary roads (V2)
is approximately CFAF19,000. The development of 400 ha will require about
l.m. 7,000 of these roads as estimated on the basis of the grid proposed
for the pro.tect area (see Map 5). The overall cost of construction of these
roads would be approximately CFAF135 million.
C. Water Supply and Distribution
9.        The target population for the project will be families with total
monthly incomes in the US$ 57 to 145range. Consultants NEDECO study
indicates that families with total monthly incomes above US$90-100 would
constitute a market for private connections on the water distribution system.
It has thus been assumed that some 15% gf the lots in the project would be
provided with individual water supply. Y The rest of the population will be
supplied with water by public fountainQW and every such equipment will serve
75 families, or an overall density of 1 per 100 plots.
10.       The preliminary engineering developed for a sample of 130 ha revealed
that the equipment of such an area would require approximately:
l.m. 2,200 of mm 150 , asbestos cement pipes
l.m. 4,800 of mm 100 d asbestos cement pipes
and 5 floodgates of mm 150 in diameter.
1/ Accounting for the possible increase of this demand for individual
water connections in the future, a site plan scheme was designed (see
Annex 7) offering the possibility of easy extension of existing water
service to at least another 25% of the population.
2/ Every public fountain is associated with a fire hydrant.



ANNEX 7
Page h
Consequently, the development of o00 ha should require about 6,800,
14,800 and 15 units of the same materials respectively. Unit costs
related to the various componenta of the water distribution system
are given in Table 2, and total project cost of water supply for the
project in Dakar is given in Table 6.
11.       To serve the project area, 3 staged extensions of the main
water lines will be required (see Map 5):
a)  pulling a am 250 4 pipe from the Point Y reservoir (in
1972-73);
b)  pulling a mm 300 4 pipe from the existing Builders main
(in 1973-74);
c)  pulling a mm 250 4 pipe from the existing Camberene well
(in 1974-75).
In the three instances, the capacity of the existing mains to service the
project area was found adequate. The construction of these main extensions
would involve l.m. 4,600 and 1,600 respectively of mm 250 X and mm 300 4
pipes, at a total cost of CFAF31 million.
D. Sewage Disposal
12.       In-December 1971, consultant NEIEC0 presented to the Government
a comprehensive Water and Sewerage Master Plan for the Cap Vert, as a
result of a two year study financed by UNDP with WHO as executing agency.
Accounting for existing infrastructures and the service provided thereby,
for needs in relation with socio-economic levels of populations, for spatial
distribution of these populations and for natural soil characteristics,
the Master Plan provides a programming framework up to the year 2000.
13.       The type of solution selected for the project with regard to
sewerage disposal is in agreement with the NEDECO Master Plan. Over the
400 ha,sewage will be disposed of by pit privies and septic tanks.  The
latter equipment will be required from families with private connections
to the water distribution system, since their water consumption and sewage
production will be higher. Before retaining this solution, detailed exam-
ination was made (with the help of WHO and NEDECO technicians) of possible
hazards to underwater reserves as well as efficiency of natural filtration
of wastes.
14.       Practically all 400 ha of the project are east of the limit of
the underground basaltic layer. Therefore, satisfactory filtration will be
insured by the thick sand cover in the project area. This area lies across



ANNEX 7
Page 5
two main basins (East: the Grand Niaye; West: Camberene, Autoroute,
Point N wells basin). However, the wells are at substantial distances
from the development itself, while 150 m is usually considered as the
required distance between any built-up zone and a well. The closest
wells to the development will be Camberene's and Autoroute's, within
200 m. However, only a fraction of sewage waters will percolate ver-
tically through the basalts. In the worst conditions, percolation would
involve vertical filtration over m 15 of sand and m 15 of basalts, then
a few meters through sand again. Most waters will run over the basalts
through sand and percolate gradually into the infrabasaltic water pond.
Therefore, natural filtration will be secured by water movements over
distances that can be estimated to be close to 300 m.
15.       Some public lavatories will be provided for non-domestic needs.
they will be located in public squares where organized or spontaneous
markets should materialize. Each such equipment will consist of a set
of 20 seats with a common septic tank. The septic tank was preferred to
the waterprodf tank since the latter would require regular draining by
municipal tankers.  rrhese tankers are at present insufficient in number
and their operation is very pcorly managed.
16.       Similar lavatories will also be built as sanitary facilities
for schools. However, these will be accounted for when describing edu-
cational facilities. A standard was agreed upon with the technical services
of the DUH pertaining to neighborhood units (of approximately 25 ha) to
structure the developments. Each neighborhood will have a central square.
Therefore, at every phase of the project, four lavatories should be con-
structed to serve a population of 7,000 to 8,500 people.
17.       Unit costs of the various components of the sewage disposal
system are as follows:
Total         Salaries           Machine             Material
Item        Cost        Local   Foreign   Local  Toreign    Local   Foreign   Taxes
Public
lavatory    3,300,000   978,570  143,725  45,051  262,528   511,577  398,4f31   660,0683
Pit privy'/      1,200        300        72       24        96       240       168       300
Same on sep-
tic tank      100,000    38,312    4,432    1,004    7,571    19,323    9,8214    19,525
Total cost for the sewage disposal component of the project in Dakar
is given in Table 6.
1/ The individual pit privy cost includes a concrete cover only. The
rest of the construction will be left to the population under super-
vision by technical sanitation (see Annex 8).



ANNA I7
E. Power Supply
18.       During the appraisal mission, the Government had agreed that
it would provide for expenditures related to power supply. Since then,
however, the nationalization of the power distribution company has
apparently resulted in a change of the Government's position. Included
in the cost of the projo4t propor is the cost of the low tnsion distri-
bution lines within the przoject areas.  The Government would finance
necessary extensions of the high tension lines, transformers and public
lighting. On the basis of coat estimates for some 130 ha the total cost
of low tension distribution lines would be CFAIF 200.8 million for the
400 ha.
F. Educational Facilities
19.       Education and health are the two social services formally
provided to the project population. Education facilities will be tailored
to the local conditions and the overall objectives of the related Ministry.
It will encompass essentially primary and short-term secondary education.
Beyond these levels, services will be provided by facilities of higher
status existing in other parte of the city.
20.       A very precise quantitative definition of needs for education
services within the project was not possible due to a) lack of sophisticated
and comprehensive statistics on age distribution for the population con-
sidered, and school enrollment proper to this population; b) the expected
change in the nature of the population involved by the project. As a con-
sequence, ratios and standards were selected on the basis of the overall
school enrollment situation in the Cap Vert.
21.       Two main issues, however, appeared in relation to the provision
of education services and corresponding facilities:/ a) their integration
into national development programs of the Ministry, with regard to service
standards and teachers supplyj b) their readiness to permit activities going
beyond traditional education, involving all population groups at the individual
and the collective scale. Regarding the latter, it would be desirable that
schools become more than pure educational facilities. School could also
perform the following functions:
a) Construction should serve as one of the grounds on which
communities could coalesce and start or improve their
internal organization;
b) At the same time, construction should involve the labor force
available locally to the extent possible; and
1/ As well as for health services.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
c) After school hours, the facilities could be used
as quarters for community social centers where
activities would involve adults as well as youths.
22.       The development of new facilities raised the issue of teachers
supply. The project involves populations generated by natural demographic
growth.  On this only ground new teachers would be needed. Moreover, the
project also involves people displaced from bidonvilles which may not
require additional teachers, but only transfer of teachers. Actually most
schools in the vicinity of bidonvilles are overcrowded.  Consequently,
the Minister of National Education viewed the development of new facilities
as an opportunity to readjust the existing situation and achieve better
spatial distribution of these facilities. Estimates of needs were agreed
upon by the Minister who gave assurance that teachers would be supplied
as needed (63 per year).
23.       It was assumed that the average household size would be 8.0
people when occupation starts. Of this population, 20% are of school age
and 50% of those will be enrolled in primary school (present average in
the Cap Vert Region). Therefore, at each phase of the development (100 ha),
63 classrooms (with 44 students each) will be needed. This corresponds to
three schools of 21 classroomsl/to be immediately available. In the long
run, three additional schools will probably be needed to satisfy a population
25% larger and future enrollment of 80% of school age children.
24.       Short-term  secondary education (CEG) will involve 1.56% of the
overall population immediately and 2.50% in the long run, which will correspond
again to a doubling of the equipment. Therefore, one secondary school of
twelve classes (with 36 pupils each) will have to be provided immediately at
each phase of the project.
25.       Unit costs of primary and CEG schools are given in Table 3, and
total project cost of educational facilities is given in Table 6
G. Health Facilities
26.       The second social service formally provided to the project
population is medical care. As for education, the provision of this
service will be conditioned by the availability of related personnel
in Senegal. After discussion with the Ministry of Public Health, it was
agreed upon that the most suitable formula was to equip every 130 ha of
the project with one health center.
Of which one classroom for Grade 5.  T'here is one pupil in this grade
for 25 in lower grades. Grade 5 classes are of 36 students for 45 in
lower grades.



ANNEX 7
Page 17-
27.       One of these facilities will be served by the following
personnel:
physician                 1
midwife                   1
state nur8es              2
ordinary nurses           2
social worker             1
attendants                2
and the facility will be composed of the elements listed in 'Table .
28.       Unit cost of an individual health center is detailed in
Table 5 and the total cost of health facilities for the project is
given in Table 6.
March 21, 1972



SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
ESTIMATE OF COST PER LINEAR METER OF ROADS (CFAF)
Unit                    Total          Salaries               Machinery                Material
Item                         Unit      Price      Quantity     Cost       Local     Foreign       Local      Foreign      Local      Foreign        Taxes
v4 Road -
earthworks                 C.M.       280          1           280        154          17         -            53         -             -            56
embanking                  S.M.       240          8         1,920      1,056        115          -           365         -             -           384
laterite bed
(15 cm thick)            S.M.        550          5         2,750        413        192          -          660        413             -        1,072
laterite shoulders
(12.5 cm thick)           S.M.       690          2         1,380        207         97          -           331       207             -           538
spraying                 S.M.       110          5.5         605         55         36          -            79        42           163           230
asphalt coat               S.M.       395          5         1,975        296        119          -           277       355           316           612
adjustment.                                                    90         75         -           -             -         -             -           15
9,000     2,256         576         -         1,765     1,017           479         2,907
Lower Standards
Roads -
earthworks                 C.M.       280          1            280       154          17         -            53          -            -
embanking                  S.M.       240          5         1,200        660          72         -           228          -            -           240
laterite bed
(15 cm thick)             S.M.       550          5         2,750        413        192          -           660       413             -         1,072
adjustment                                                    40         32           -         -             -          -            -             8
4,270     1,259         281         -           941       413             -         1,376
March 21, 1972



SENEGA L
SITE AND SERVICES; PREOJCT
COST ESTIMATE OF WATER DISTRIBUTIOI4 SYSTEM COMPONENTS (CFAY)
Unit            Salaries                 Machinery                 Material
Item                    Unit     Price       Local      Foreign        Local     Foreign        Local      Foreign         Taxes
mm 150 o  pipe
(laying included)      l,m.     2,380         424         212            _                                 1,321            423
mm 100 9 pipe
(laying included)      l.m.     1,322         304         152            -           -                       635            231
mm 150 o  floodgate    U         30,514      2,289       2,289            -       4,119             -      16,1722!        5,6452/
mm 100 o  floodgate.3/  U        17,164      2,489       2,489            -            -            -       9,1831/        3,0042/
public fountain         U       75,000      23,955       3,537          747       4,913       12,063       13,416         16,369
fire hydrant            U       75,000       2,250       1,085            -       1,828            -       53,573         16g264
private hook-u 4/       U        17,500      2,853         612           25          280         195        8,669          4,866
mm 150 0 floodgate
(accessories included)         35,968       2,289       2,289            -       4,119            -       20,215         7,056
mm 100 9' floodgate
(accessories included)         20,211       2,489       2,489            -           -            -       11,479          3,755
2/  Actually, this should be increased by 25% for cost of all related accessories.
2/ This amount should be 25% higher to account f'or taxes on accessories; see footnote 2!.
Each public fountain requires one such floodgate.
g  Counter included; counter cost:  CEAF 7,Y)W.
March 21, 1972



SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES FOR SCHOOLS (CFAF)
Total             Salaries                  Machinery               Material
Item                    Unit      Price       Quantity      Cost          Local       Foreign       Local      Foreign       Local      Foreign         Taxes
Primary School
I-Classroom Constr.       U    1,146,700         21     24,081,000    9,391,590       915,078      361,215  1,565,265    4,888,443   2,119,128    4,840,281
2-Administ. Office
(1/6 of 1)                           -          -      4,017,000    1,566,630      152,646        60,255    261,105       815,451      353,496       807,417
3-Classroom Furnish.      U      150,000         21      3,150,000    1,417,500       63,000       157,500      94,500             -     724,500       693,000
4-Office Furnish.
(10% of 3)             _-                       -        402,000       180,900       8,o40        20,100      12,060             -      92,460        88,440
5-Edicule                 U    3,000,000          1      3,000,000       978,570      143,725       45,051    262,528        511,577     398,481       660,o68
34,650,000   13,535,190   1,282,489        644,121  2,195,458    6,215,471   3,688,o65    7,089,206
Secondary School
1-Classroom Constr.       U      885,400         12     10,625,000    4,143,750       403,750      159,375    690,625    2,156,875       935,000    2,135,625
2-Laboratory Constr.      U    1,180,400          3      3,541,000    1,380,990       134,558        53,115    230,165       718,823      311,608      711,741
3-Administ. Office
(1/5 of 1 + 2)         -             -          -      2,833,000    1,104,870      107,654        42,495    184,145        575,099     249,304       569,433
4-Classroom Furnish.      U      150,000         12      1,800,000       810,000       36,ooo       90,000      54,000             -      414,000      396,ooo
5-Labor Furnish.          U      600o,000         3      1,800,000       810,000       36,ooo       90,000      54,000             -     414,000       396,ooo
6-Office Furnish.
(10% of 3)             _-                       -        283,000       127,350        5,660       14,150       8,490             -      65,090        62,260
7-Edicule                 U    2,250,000          1      2,250,000       733,927      107,794i       33,788    196,896       383,683      298,861      495,051
23,132,000    9,110,887      831,416       482,923  1,418,321    3,834,480   2,687,863    4,766,110
March 21, 1972



ANiTNX 7
Page 12
SENEGAL                          TABE.
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
ELEMNTS OF THE STANDARD HEALTH CENTER
Medical Unit              1 room             medical examnination         14  s.m.
1 room             X-rays                      12
1 room             secretarial use             10
1 room             waitingl/                    14
Subtotal        50
Dispensary Unit           1 room             medical care                 21
1 room             pharmacy                     21
1 room             secretarial use              14
2 rooms           hospitalization /           144
Subtotal       200
Maternity Unit            1 room             waitin g/                    16
exanination of
parturients              14
examin-tion of
babies                   14
labor                       16
delivery                    14
secretarial use             12
hospitalization
(mothers & babies)       84
Subtotal      170
General Services          1 unit for kitchen - washing -                  50
2 apartments f or senior nurse                130
1 apartment for superintendent
- janitor                  50
Subtotal       230
Total            650 s.m.
1/  The two waiting rooms could be adjacent to permit their use
as a single room for information meetings.
2/ 1 room (s.m. 96) with 224 beds and 1 room (s.m. 48) with 12 beds.
3/  This waiting room will be equipped with two beds.
March 21, 1972



SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
HEALTH CENTER   (O'FAF)
Unit                      Total               Salaries                Machinery               Material
Item                     Unit     Price       Quantity      Cost          Local        Foreign       Local     Foreign       Local      F)reign         Taxes
Grading                  s.m.       200         1,000        200,000        100,000      12,200           -      37,800           -             -       40,000
Construction             s.m.    20,000           650    13,000,000        5,o83,000   481,000    247,000       819,000  2,327,000    1,378,000    2,665,000
of
immediate vicinity      s.m.    12,000           200     2,400,000          938,400    88,800       45,600     151,200    429,600       254,400       492,000
Individutal Septic
Tanks                   U     110,000             3        330,000         126,444    14,628        3,312      24,987      63,771        32,424       64,434
Sewage Disposal           U   2,250,000             1     2,250,000          933,927   107,794       33,788     196,896    383,683       298,861       495,051
Private Water Hook-up    U       18,000             3         54,ooo           8,802      1,890          54         864         594        26,784       15,012
Water Supply              U     100,000             1        100,000           16,300     3,500         100        1,600      1,100        49,600        27,800
Subtotal                                      18,334,000        7,016,873   709,812    329,854   1,232,347  3,205,748    2,040,069    3,799,297
Furnishing &
Equipment               U   5,000,000             1      5,000,000       2,250,000  1.00,000    250,000       150,000           -    1,150,000    1,103, 000
23,334,ooo       9,266,873   809,812    579,854   1,382,347  3,205,748    3,190,069    4,899,297
March 21, 1972



SENFUAl
SrPE AND SERVICES P1BlOJ1OCP
DAKAR PlEOJECI COOT (cvA 000)
Unit                   Total            Salaries              Machinery             Material
Item                      Unit      Price      Quantity   Cost          Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign      Local    Foreign      Taxes
Site Preparation
Topographical Work             ha          100.0         400      40,000        7,200   20,400          -       6,800         -        -          5,600
Earthworks                     ha        1,750.0         400     700,000      1]6,900   42,70O      35,700   342,300          -        -        162,400
740,000     124,100   63,100      35,700   349,100          -        -        16,000
Infrastructure
Roads
V4                           l.m.          9.0      8,700       78,300       19,627    5,011         -      15,356       8,848      4,167      25,291
Lower Standards              l.m.          4.3      3,400       14,518        4,281      955         -       3,199       1,404       -         4,679
92,818      23,908    5,966         _      18,555       10,252     4,167      29,970
Water Distribution System
mm 150 0 pipe                l.m.          2.4      6,800       16,184        2,883    i,442         -         -            -       8,983       2,876
(laying included)
mm 100 / pipe                l.m.          1.3      4,800        6,346        1,459       730        -         -            -       3,o48       1,109
(laying included)
mm 150   f floodgate         U            36.o          15          54o          34        34        -          62          -         304         106
mm 100 / floodgate           U            20.2         140       2,830          348       348        -         -            -       1,608         526
public fountains             U            75.0         140      10,500        3,353       495        105       688       1,689      1,878       2,292
fire hydrants                U            75.0         i4o      10,500          315       152        -         256         -        7,500       2,277
private hook-ups             U            17.5       3,500      61,250        9,985    2,142          87       980          683    30,342      17,031
108,150      18,377    5,343          192    1,906        2,372    53,663      26,217
Sanitary Facilities
public edicules              U         3,000.0          16      48,ooo       15,657    2,300         721    4,200         8,185     6,376      10,561
pit privies                  U             1.2      10,500      12,600        3,150       756        252    1,008         2,520     1,764       3,150
pit privies on               U           100.0       2,100     210,000       80,465    9,307       2,108   15,899       40,589    20,630       41,002
septic tank
270,600      99,272   12,363        3,01   21,107       51,294    2b,770      54,713
Power Distribution             ha          502.0         400     200,800       15,783   20,682         -       1,386          -     146,002      16,947
Open Space Planting            ha           20.0         400        8,000       7,000       -                    -            200      -            800
Social Services
Education Facilities
primary schools              U         34,650.0         12     415,800      162,422   15,390       7,730   26,346        74,585    44,257      85,070
CEG 1,                                 23,132.0         )4      92,528       36,444    3,326       1,932    5,673        15,338    10,751      19,064
508,328     198,866   18,716       9,662   32,019        89,923    55,006    104,134
Health Facilities             U         23,334.0          4       93,336      37,067    3,239       2,320    5,530        12,823    1-,760      19,5'97
June 6, 1972 2



ANNEX 8
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT ELEMENTS AND COST ESTIMATES - THIES
1.        Project elements in Thies are the same as in Dakar and their
cost estimates are summarized below:
(CFAF Million)
Project Element              Local      Foreign      otal
Site preparation               1.9         4.1        6.J
Streets                        9.6         4.3       13.9
Water supply                   2.5         3.7        6.2
Sewage disposal                5.8         2.1        7.9
Power supply                   4.9        25.2       30.1
Open Space Planting            1.2         -          1.2
Education Facilities          41.2        10.8       52.0
Health Facilities              9.0         2.7       11.7
76.1       52.9       129.0
2.        These cost estimates were based essentially on cost estimates
developed for Dakar, with the exception of the following:
a) Barthworks will not be necessary in Thies. Thus, site
preparation is reduced to topographical work.
b)  The density will be 26 lots of 200 sq m per hectare instead
of 35 of 150 sq m in Dakar.
c) No lot will be supplied with water through private connection
to the water distribution system.
d) The particular needs of the Thies project led to considering
social faciliti6s of different characteristics from those
selected for Dakar. Namelyp schools are of 15 classes and
there will be one health center for the project area about
half the size of the center in Dakar.
June 5, 1972






ANNE 9
Page 1
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMNT
A.   Introduction
1.        From an investigation of the global experience to date with site
and services projects and related partial housing schemes, such as shell
housing, one salient lesson is apparent: success to a great extent relies
upon the positive response of the families who occapy the serviced lots.
This is best obtained by involving them in the organized development of their
own communities. The completion of land preparation and installation of
physical facilities comprises only the initial stags of such a project.  In
order for viable new communities to develop, the site occupants must also
undertake the following activities:
(a) establishment-of local decision-making and management
processes controlled by lot occupants;
(b) construction of houaing;
(c) the establishment of cooperative social and economic
development programs; and
(d)  the establishment of local savings and credit mechanisms,
including means for repyment of Government capital
expenditures.
2-        These activities will only occur if reliance is placed on self-
help mechanisms, and particularly with the participation and concerted effort
of local leadership. Government's role is crucial but subsidiary. It can
provide assistance in the form of (a) organizational skills to guide the new
settlers in the establishment of organizations to define and manage cooperative
activities and (b) technical skills to aid them in carrying out the activities,
but the people themselves should build their houses, operate their savings and
credit mechanisms, and be primarily responsible for insuring payments to the
Government, the proper use of community facilities, and the formulation and
management of social and economic developuent programs. To bring this about
it is important to establish the fact in the minds of inhabitants of these new
communities that improvements in economic and social conditions and in their
physical environment are fundamentally their responsibility, and the Government
can only assist them. But in order for then to work on this premise they
must be given control in formulating and carrying out improvement programs.
Thus, the primary agent of development is the local inhabitants.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
3.        This bottom-up self-help approach appears less efficient in the
shorter run than most Government planners by nature wish to accept, due to
the use of a more participatory process, undertaken by a population group
with under-developed organizational skills. However, from experience else-
where with site and services, and more generally with other types of develop-
ment projects where Government has tried to reduce its expenditures through
mobilizing the personal savings and energy of its citizens, it appears that
the greater the relative importance of local participation as compared to
that of Government's, the greater has been the success of projects. Faced
with very scarce resources, a slowly developing small economy and a large
lower income demand, this approach promises the greatest results in terms of
both magnitude and quality. Results will not, however, be uniform. Some
community groups will be more successful in their undertakings than others
and some may even fail to reach some of their objectives. Moreover, different
expressed needs of the groups and abilities will demand differing approaches,
amounts and make-up of governmental assistance and rates of development. For
these reasons the community development program of the project must remain
flexible and receptive to feedback.
4.        Available information indicates that Senegalese lower income
families are responsive to cooperative community activities and possess a
high level of construction skill. They are accustomed to participating in
formal and informal organizations, such as youth and sports clubs, parent
teacher associations, religious societies, and political groups. Some
community groups at present police the use of water at public fountains
within their comnunity,and cooperative groups exist for training in child
care, cooking and sewing. In Pikine, Dakar, a sewing co-op recently expanded
from a training to a commercial enterprise, with guidance from the Government
office, Directorate de la Promotion Humaine (DPH). Local leadership appears
strong and well respected. Even in illegally settled urban areas, on advice
of their leaders, people lay out their housing lots in an orderly manner,
including in some settlements wide straight public streets. They cooperate
to build community mosques and, in Pikine, a group recently built its own
school building.
5.        The ability and initiative necessary for the proposed community
development aspects of the project appears to exist among the people the
project would be addressing. Government's role in this part of the
project will be undertaken by a special section of OHLM and given strong
support in the form of technical assistance (para. 10). This would par-
ticularly apply to the mechanism being recommended for the collection of
lot occupants' monthly payments due to the OHLM. The limited information
available on experience in Senegal and other developing countries indicates
that the most successful repayment mechanism is one where primary responsi-
bility for collection rests with the local communities themselves through
savings and credit type associations (para. 7). However, given the newness
of this type of organization for the settlers and the fact that they have
low incomes and are among the less stably employed in the urban population,
there would be a risk that some households will default on their payments.



Exnerience indi-etes thst this risk is red;ucPd not only by Goverrn-nt
not directly participating in the collection, but also by providing
technical assistance to help establish the savinigs rnd credit mechanism
and educate the target population in fami17 budgeting.
B. Organization
6.        In the organization of the fanilies assigned to the serviced lota
for administration and co.mmanity development activities, familiar formal and
informal associations should be utilized to 'he extent possible. Attention
should be given to tribal and religious affiritiea.  In urban ase-as at present
the major local aid:nistrative unit is the "quartier" headed by a "chef de
quartier" who is an indigenous leader and/or an appointee of the regional
Governor. The chief is assisted by an advisory council made up of locally
respected and powerful personalities such as wise elders, religious, political
and business leaders. These councils organize social activities and at times
mediate disputes within the local community. They also function as channels
of communication between the households of the quartier and the chIef. The
quartier is being proposed as the major organizational unit in thn project and
its membership would be the principal social groupirng in the new communities
for identifying and carrying out development activities. Social data on Dakar
indicates that quartiers vary considerably in size of population and spatial
territory and there is no guidance for optimal size. As a trial rsize for
Phase I of the project, 100 to 150 households (100 contiguous lots, 700 'o 900
people) is suggested.l/ The suitability of this size, and that of others
suggested below, would be one of the subjects of investigation by the OHLM
Monitoring Committee.2/
1/ Each of the 100 lots would be occupied by one assigned family.  It is
suggested here for the purpose of obtaining a more realistic picture of
actual communities that by the end of a 4 or 5-year period of occupation
half of the sites would be occupied by a second household of 4 members
each. These would be renters.
2/  The Director of OHLM would set up a "Monitoring Committee", consisting of
himself, the Project Manager, the accountant, the head of the Community
Assistance Section. The object of the Coniittee would be to make assess-
ments of the project's progress and to this end, would draw up and then
regularly review physical and financial plans and an analysis of occupants,
attitudes and actions via-a-vie developing living conditions. The Committes
should meet for review sessions every three months.
In order to further assist the Government in obtaining feedback during
project implementation and to aid the Bank in developing its lending
program for site and services projects, a study team should be set up
in Dakar to analyze the project. Its major objective would be to as-
certain the responsiveness of the executing agency's operations and the
physical design of the project areas to the cultural, economic and
social needs of the site inhabitants. The head of the team should
participate in the Monitoring Committee's review sessions. The team
would submit reports on their observation of project conditions and
make recommendations for changes in operations or design. The Govern-
ment has agreed to this desirable feedback research and the Bank is
now investigating how best to establish it.



ANNEX 9
Page 47
7.        The chief and his council would maintain their existing functions
and take on more permanent tasks of control of the use of local facilities
and be the main contact for the input of governmental technical assistance.
Each quartier would establish an Associations Cooperatives d'Habitat with the help
of technical assistance (paras. 10 and 13). Quartier houaeholds may place
their savinga in the Association at a reasonable interest rate. The Associ-
ation would also be the avenue for making payments to OHLM, each family
depositing every month at least an amount equal to the monthly payment due.
About mid-1973, recommendations for adding a credit mechanism to the func-
tion of the associations will be proposed by the Government for consultation
with the Association. These associations may later be used for other local
purposes from time to time, as agreed upon by the quartier council and the
borrower. Each quartier should also elect officers to manage their savings
and loan association. For each 100 lot unit in the project, there is a pub-
lic water fountain and local market and assembly square. Maintenance and
control of this facility and social space could be one. initial focal point
for the quartier council. A second important focal point would be organi-
zation for cooperative self-construction of housing. Other suggestions are
discussed below (paras. 11 and 12).
8.        Above the level of quartier two other organizational units are
suggested, the neighborhood and the project phase unit. The neighborhood unit
would be made up of 750 households (500 contiguous lots, 3,500 to 4,500 people).
This number of households, approximately that subscribing to a primary school
in the project area, appears a manageable size for representative committees
of chefs de quartier and a savings and credit organization governing committee.
It appears to be large enough to undertake larger scale construction work,
such as a recreation center and extension of the primary school, and is an
appropriate unit for some adult training programs.  The project phase unit
would serve primarily the Government in project implementation and only in a
very limited manner the new communities. The unit corresponds to each of the
100 ha to be developed during each of the four years of project implementation
and would encompass about 3,500 to 5,200 households. It is suggested that a
council of chefs de quartier be organized at this level to consider issues
related to land use in the phase unit, e.g., the market, industrial park,
recreation areas and the location of small commercial activities.
9.        Below the quartier unit, the project has grouped lots in units of
six sharing a small semi-public open apace of some 100 i2. While available
social data does not identify or discuss social organizations existing below
the level of quartier, it is anticipated that these clusters of households
may assist in maintaining desired propinquity of extended kinship or other
groups and in promoting small-scale social activities such as baby-sitting,
garbage collection or such economic activities as sewing co-operatives.



ANNE 9
Page 5
Guidelines for Community Structure
Approximate
No. Households          Salient Commmity
Organization Level               (No. lota)             Organizations
Project Phase                  3,500 - 5,200          Council of chefs de
(3,500)            quartier
Neighborhood                     500 - 750            Committee of chefs de
(500)              quartier, parent savings
and credit mechanism,
primary school
Quartier                         100 - 150            Chef de quartier and
(100)              advisory council, local
savings and credit
sechanism
Cluster                            6 - 9              Informal group
(6)
10.       For the Government to undertake its _asistance program in community
development, a Cormmnity Assistance Secticn (CAB) will be Bet up within OIM
to be charged with overall responsibility for the direction, administration
and implementation of the program. CAS will also coordinate the different
types of assistance being provided by several sources (Annex 6), namely:
(a) community organization and decision-making, from Direction
de la Promotion Humaine staff (DPH);
(b)  building and building materials, from a UsN.D.P. financed
expert and the national technical institutions;
(c)  small-scale economic institutions, from an IDA financed
expert and SONEPI;
(d)  savings and credit associations, from an IDA financed
expert; and
(e)  civil engineering expertise in low-cost urban infrastructure,
from an IDA financed expert.
The CAS central office would need a amall staff during the first four years of
operations, consiating of a Chief Community Development Officer, four foreign
technical assistants with counterparts for training, and six to ten Senegalese



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Community Organizers. The number of Community Organizers suggested in
tentative as more or loe may be needed, depending on the difficulties
encountered in CAS's work * This would only become apparent during project
implementation. For each city in Senegal where aite and services projects
are established a CAS regional office should be established as part of the
regional CHIM office, Fbr the proposed project the central CAS would serve
the Dakar area and a second one should be set up in Thies. Given the magni'
tude of the Dakar project (14,000 lots) there may be a need to locate field
units of the CAS out on the project site to be staffed with field workers,
perhaps one per project phase (100 ha). Consideration of this need would be
the responsibility of the CAS after its establishment.
C. Program
11.       The activities of the site occupants can be divided into two types,
core and ancillary. Core activitiea are those that are essential to all
community units and ahould, with the exception of housing construction, begin
at the time of the selection of families to occupy the serviced lots. They
include:
(a) organization of quartier units for decision-making and
management;
(b) establishment of savings and credit mechanisms;
lc) organization of manpower for employment in project
construction; and
(d)  housing construction.
12.       Ancillary activitioe  would typically be initiated after core
activities and after site occupancy. These activities are voluntary and are
to be decided upon by the membership of the individual quartiers. They will
vary in type and number among community units and may include such activities
as construction of commmnity buildings, e.g. assembly halls, mosques, extensions
to schools and the building of garbage bins; training programs in domestic
hygiene and refuse disposal, child-care, sewing, carpentry and other vocational
skills, further development of cooperative organizations like creches, production
and cons1mer co-ops.
13.       It is essential that prospective participants in the site and services
project know what would be expected of them. Therefore, conditions and oppor-
tunities would have to be made clear in a publicity program.undertaken by the
OHIM to attract site applicants.  It is suggested that the CAS be given
responsibility for this aspect of advertisement, and that it include sponsoring
local public meetings as well as using more conventional means of information
dissemination. The CAS would also assist in the identification of group



ANNEX 9
Page 7
applicants for sites.  Aside from meeting the income and property owner-
ship qualifications for selection (Annex 3), prospective occupants would
have to agree to join a local savings and credit association, at least for
making OHLM payments, and be willing to participate in community development
activities. Local social pressure should be relied upon for enforcement of
the latter condition as it would be impossible to enforce more formal
sanctions.
14.       CAS will assist OHLM in the selection of lot occupants and under-
take the pre-site occupation orientation. A series of-meetings would be
held prior to moving to the serviced lots with quartior units identified in
the process of selection and assignment. These meetings would discuss fully
the potentials of self-help, the various possible activities open to the group,
their responsibilities, the constraints, and technical assistance available
to them. A quartior leadership council should be formed and tasks decided
upon, including allocation of responsibilities such as local water use
control and savings association officers. Men wanting employment in the
construction phase of site preparation would be identified and put in contact
with employers. Participants should decide to vhat extent, if at all, and
how they wish to undertake cooperative construotion of housing and building
material purchases. These meetings would also assist the participating
families in developing social bonds where the group is newly formed.
Meetings may occur over a three to six-month period prior to occupation of
the serviced sites, during which time land preparation and infrastructure
construction is under way in Pikine and Thies. The number of maetings
necessary would probably differ among quartier units, and to varying degrees
the structuring of links between quartier making up a neighborhood will be
possible. Some units would also begin to organize for undertaking ancillary
activities.
Initial Timtable of Pre-Site Occupation
Community Development Activities
Date                                     Activity
August 1972 - January 1973            Organization to initiate community
development program (registration,
selection, preparation of participants
for occupancy).
February - July 1973                  Registration and selection of applicants
for First Phase (100 ha) Dakar.
June 1973                             Begin preparation of lot purchases for
occupancy of lots.
(June 1973 *                     Begin project construction)
January 1974                          Begin assistance to lot purchasers in
occupancy of lots.
* This may be delayed until September due to the rainy season.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
15.       It is suggested that two neighborhoods be started at the same
time in Dakar and this pattern be maintained throughout the execution of
the project. This would spread the risk so that a premature assertion of
failure would at no time rely on a single component. Mbreover, it may
induce a stronger feeling of cohesion within specific neighborhood
populations.
16.       Community organization officers working with coummmity leaders
would spend most of their time out in the newly developing coxmmnities, first
assisting in the development of the local organizations and coordinating the
use of technical assistance experts with the demands made upon their services.
Later they will be able to shift more of their time to helping with ancillary
activities.
D. Staffing
17.       Tho Direction do la Promotion Humaine (DPH) of the Ministry of
Youth and Sporta will have the responsibility for managezent and staffing
of CAS of OHI,4 and will be asaisted by project and UNDP sponsored technical
assistance. DPH is a newly established directorate made up of personnel who
until recently have served in the Directorate of Animation Urban and Rbiral,
of the President's Office. The Directorate has a staff of approximately 300,
located throughout the country.  Some 50 staff meibers have had formal
training in community development, in the main at the National School of
Applied 3conomics.



ANNEX 10
Page
S&EGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
CONDITIONS OF TENURE AND PAIMENT
1         Laportan-' to the success of the project is the formulation of a
strong sense of security on the part of the occupants of the serviced sites.
This condition is essential to stimulate self-improvement of the sites and
the development of strong social communities. A tenure system that places
control of the occupantts property in his own hands and clearly and simply
spells out the extent and means of obtaining control will considerably
enhance attainment of this sense of security.
Parts A and B below have been agreed upon by the Government who
will combine them in a single document.
A. Draft Sales Contract
SALE
By the State
to Mr.
of lot No,
of the Development Plan of
THE UNDERSIGNED
Mr*                        Dire-ctor of Off"ice des Habitations a Lyer Modere
(OHLIr), acting on behalf of the State by virtue of the Agreement (Convention)
of
PARTY OF THE FIRST PART
and Mr.                                      (Full, name, date and place of
birth, No. and date of ID car, nationality, profession, address)
PARTY OF THE SECOND PART
Have agreed to the following:
To  ASSIG?,MEN' - DESCRIPTION
HIr.                           l ex officio, hereby assigns to
Hr.                          , who accepts, full ownership of a plot of
undeveloped land forming lot No.        of the development plan of
approved by decree No.          of                      of an area of
square meters, covered b  title-deoe  No    -   /DG (or to be extracted from
Title-Deed N{o.       /DG).
II. PROOF OF aNERSHIP
Regarding the legal status of the land sold, the parties undertake to
accept the real-estate register of Dakar and Goree as proof of ownership.



A'i,TIE  10
Page 2
III. (JiERSHIP - POSSESSION
The purchaser shall enter into possession of the land hereby assigned
from the date of the present document. Subject to the conditions set out
hereafter, he shall become owner of the land from that date onwards.
IV. CONDITIONS
This assignment is made and accepted under the standard and legal
conditions applicable and also under the following special conditions:
(1)  Price
This assignment shall be effected for the price of
payable at              free of interest, in 120 equal monthly Installments
of _    _       due on the first of each month starting from _
Default in payment of the month2y installments on the dates specified
shall result in revocation of this assignment. Such revocation shall if
applicable be effected under the terms and conditions listed in (4) below.
(2) Use of the land - Development .1/
The land hereby assigned is intended primarily for the construction
of buildings to be used as hoising. Use of it for commercial, craft or
industrial activities is therefore prohibited without authorization from the
Director of OHIM.
The purchaser shall develop the land assigned by constructing
buildings whose features are in line with the provision of decree lqo.-
of              mentioned above.
Until such time as this development has been completed, the purchaser
is entitled to put up provisional buildings provided these include a dwelling
for himself and his family.
(3) prohibitions
Until he has paid the price in full and until it is confirmed that
the land has been developed, the purchaser is forbidden to:
(a) sell all or part of the land hereby purchased, or the buildings
to be constructed on ite
However, in the event of a change of residence duly justified and
confirmed, the purchaser may be authorized to assign the land and the buildings
1/ To be amended in the event of approval being given to a purchaser requesting
authorization to use the land for craft or commercial activities.



AiTE.' 10
Page 3
constructed on it to a person able to show that he qualifies to receive
from the State a lot in the development area concerned or in another
development area subject to the same regulations.
(b) mortgage the land to persons other than accredited loan
companies or establishments. A mortgage given to one of these establishments
or companies shall have the sole purpose of guaranteeing a loan granted for
carrying out the development referred to in (2) above.
These prohibitions shall be mentioned in the real-estate register
when this document is recorded therein. They shall be canceled on receipt of
an application from the purchaser accompanied by:
- A certificate of full payment of the purchase price, issued by the Director
of 0 LM;
- A certificate issued by the Director of Urbanism testifying that there has
been erected on the land a building conforming with the requirements of decree
'lo.          of            mentioned above and with the building permit
issued to the purchaser.
(4)  Revocation - Penalties
The present assignment may be revoked without compensation in the
following cases:
(a)  i-on-payment of a monthly installment on the due date;
(b) Unauthorized assignment prior to payment of the whole
purchase price and to completion of the development;
(c) Mortgage given to a person other than an accredited loan
company or establishment;
(d) Vacating of the premises before completion of the development
and payment of the price;
(e) False declaration by the purchaser regarding his ownership
of real property;
(f) Failure on the part of the purchaser to respect the obligation
imcumbent upon him regarding use of at least part of the land
and buildings for housing himself and his family.
Revocation, where applicable, shall be decided by ministerial order
issued by the iinister of Finance:



ATYTEX 10
page 4
-  in the first case, one Tm.onth after issue of a summons by registered letter,
where such summons is not acted upon;
- in the other cases, after confirmation of the failure to respect the pro-
hibitions or of vacating the land, by a Commission with the following
membership:
One representative of the Governor of the Cap-Vert region ... Chairman
One representative of the Department of Urbanism ............ Member
One representative of the Department of Public Lands   M........  ember
In the event of revocation, the portion of the price already paid
shall remain the property of the State.
In any event, deeds of assigment or mortgage deeds drawn up in
contravention of (3) above shall not be utilized in law against the State.
V.  COSTS
This document shall be stamped and recorded free of charge, in pursuance
of the provision of Articles 390 and 637 of the Registration Code.
VI.  TAXES, LEVIES AND DUTIE  OF ANY KIND relating to the land hereby assigned
and to the buildings to be erected on it shall be psyable by the purchaser
from the date of notification of the present document.
VII. RIGHT OF REPOSSESSION
The State reserves the right at any time, against reimbursement of the
price paid by the purchaser, in proportion to the area affected, to repossess
any part of the land hereby assigned should it be needed for works or other
operations in the public interest.
However, if the repossession concerns parts of the land already developed
there shall be paid, in addition to the price determined as stated above,
conpensation equivalent to the value of the buildings, installations and
improvements calculated as in cases of e2propriation carried out in the public
interest.
This right of repossession shall apply not only to the purchaser but also
to all his successive heirs and assigns. It shall be recorded in the real-
estate register at the time of entering the change of ownership.
VIII. SLBCTION OF DOMCM(CT
For the execution of this document the parties elect domicile as follows:
Mr.                               , ex officio, at his offices in Office
des Habitations a Loyer modgr4 at Dakar and, where necessary, at the Bureau des



LANEX 10
Page 5
Domaines, Dakar.
Mr.                                       at
OBSERVATI011S. This assignment was authorized by
Dakar,                    197



ANNEX 10
Page 6
B. Provisains for Sua2lementing or Amending
thbe Sales Contract
1. All lots shall be subject to prohibition of resale for the first five
years following their purchase or prior to completion of the development
in accordance with the agreements made between OHLM and the purchaser at
the time of purchase. This prohibition shall be entered in the real-
estate regiater when the deed of sale ia recorded therein. It shall be
canceled after the term of five years mentioned above on receipt of an
application by the purchaser accompanied by:
(A) in the case of cash sale
a certificate froa the Director of Urbanism testifying that
there has been erected on the land a structure which conforms
to the building perit issued.
(B)  in the case of sale by installments
(a) the certificate referred to in (A) and
(b) a certificate from the Director General of OHLM testifying
that the price has been paid in full, or a certificate from
that Director testifying that the purchaser is eligible for
the parcelles assainies program.
2. Cash sale of lots
The sale may be revoked without payment of compensation by OHLM
if any ofthe following conditions is not respected.
(a) vacating of the lot prior to completion of development of
that lot.
(b) false declaration by the purchaser regarding the amount and
location of real estate owned by him at the time of purchasing
the lot.
(c) failure by the purchaser to comply with the obligation
incumbent upon him of using his lot for housing himself and
his family and, where applicable, for the exercise of his
professional activities. The purchaser is not prohibited
from leasing out part of his lot under terms acceptable to
OHLM, provided that he continues to reside on it. This
residence obligation shall not be waived except in duly
verified cases of force majeure.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
3. Sale of lots by installments
In addition to being subject to the conditions set out in (2)
above, the sale may be revoked without payment Of compensation by OHLM
if any of the following conditions occur:
(a) mortgaging of the land by the purchaser to a third party
not accredited by OH1M. (The mortgage given to a third
party must be for the sole purpose of guaranteeing a loan
intended for the development of the lot in accordance
with any agreements made between OELU and the purchaser
at the time of purchase).
(b)  non-payment of an installsent on the date agreed upon,
unless the purchaser is covered by the provisions set
out in (4) below.
4. Repurchase obligation incumbent upon OELM
(A) in the case of aale by installments, OHLM is required at all
times to buy the lot back from its owner under the terms set
out in (B) below if the said owner is prevented by force
majeure from paying one of the installments on the due date
or if he is unable to assign thesaid lot to a purchaser
eligible for the parcelles assainies program. It is under-
stood that this repurchase obligation of OHLM subsists even
if it has not been possible to issue the certificate referred
to in (1) (A) above;
(B) financial terms of ropurehase of a lot by OHIM
(a)  with regard to the land, the obligations code provided
in Law No. 66-70 of July 13, 1966 (Second Part Special
Contracts) shall apply. It shall then be necessary to
calculate the difference between the installment payments
and the rent payments.
(b) with regard to improvements made to the lot, it is neces-
sary to distinguish between two possibilities:
(i) it was not possible to issue the certificate referred
to in (1) (A) above, in which case OHLM has the right
to ask the defaulting purchaser to vacate all the
temporary structures within 10 days of repurchase of
the land by OHLM; at the end of that period, any
temporary structure remaining on the lot shall become
the property of OHLM;



ANNEX 10
rage 
(ii) the certificate referred to in (1) (A) above was
issued, in which case OHIM shall sell on behalf
of the defaulting purchaser all tepozery struc-
tures built on the lot; the cupensation to be paid
to the defaulting purchaser shall be based solely
on the aelling price obtained after deduction of
all expenses incurred by OHLM in the sale of the
said teporary structure.



ANNEX 11
Page I
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJICT
BUILDING CODE
1.     Regulations governing the construction of dwellings on the allotted
sites and the procedure for obtaining building permits should be as simple
as possible. They should neither inhibit the builder nor force upon him an
unmanageable financial commitment. The modus operandi of housing construction
is improvement over time in accordance with the abIlity of the site occupant
to invest time and money. This ability will vary among occupants.
DRAFT BUILDING CODE LAW
Articles 2 through 11 refer to permanent buildings.
ARTICLE 1
Land developed for site and services is in principle to be exclusively
allocated to residential housing.
Exception will be made for the small-scale craft industries or small
shops indispensable to the needs of the inhabitants.
ARTICLE 2
The building permit dossier consists of:
- sales contract for the lot
- lot land use sketch
- buildings' floor and elevation plans
These plans may be obtained free of charge from the Urbanism Department
or may be mad!e by approved draftsmen. The services of an architect are not
necessarily required.
ARTICLE 3
No construction of permanent housing will be autho pized if the lot
does not have a surface of at least 150 sq. meters (150 mi).
ARTICLE 4
The percentage of lot surface covered by the main building in relation
to the total lot surface must not exceed 50 percent (50%).
The prayer room, as well as the annexes, such as the laundry room and
W.C., can be either included in the main building or independent. Their



AlNEX 11
Page 2
covered surface must not occupy more than 10 percent (10%) of the land
surface remaining after deduction of the surface of the main building.
When these annexes are independent, the distance separating them
from the main dwelling must at least be equal to the height of the front
of these annexes. This distance must not, however, be less than 2 meters
50 (2m,50).
ARTICLE 5
The dwelling units will have a ground floor raised at least 50 cm
(Om,50) above ground level.
ARTICLs 6 - CONDITIONS OF CONSTRUCTION OF GROUND FLOOR
The guiding principles for siting of construction for the ground floor
will be as follows:
1) either the main building can be set in a continuous row
fronting on the street; that is, will have two of its
lateral sides in common with7those of the adjacent lots (fig. I);
2) or the main building can be set in a semi-detached row; that is,
wil-l have one of its lateral sides in common with that of an
adjacent lot and the other side at least 2 meters 50 (2m,50)
distant from the other lot (fig. 2);
3) or the main building can be set detached; that is, isolated
from those of all adjacent lots. In this case, the distance
between the building and the boundaries of the lot must not
be less than 2 meters 50 (2m,50) (fig. 3).
To make possible the different sitings, three cases are envisaged:
a) when no construction of a definite nature exists on the adjoining
lot; the builder can wet up the main building to his liking,
either contiguously or at a distance from the property line equal
to half the height of the building;
b) when construction exists, built contiguously on the adjoining
lot: the builder must set up the main building contiguously,
thus forming a continuity of the facade with the adjoining
construction and, if possible, to adapt the style and color of
its construction to that of the existing construction;
c) when construction exists built on the adjoining lot and is situa-
ted at any distance from the property line; the builder must then
set up the main building at a distance from the property line equal
to half of the height of the facade of this building, but not less
than 2m,50.



ANNZ 11
Page 3
N.B. This rule does not affect the annexes when these are independent
from the main dwelling unit. They can be built against the common walls,
with preference for location at the rear of the lot, but must not in any
case border on the street.
ARTICLE 7 - CD1NDITIONS OF CONSTRUCTION OF A SECOND FLOOR
Whether it is a question of construction to be built comprising a
ground floor and a second floor or the later construction of a second floor
over the existing ground floor, the guiding principle of construction will
be applied in the following manner:
1) for the ground floor: same principle as that set forth in
preceding Article 5;
2) for the second floor: the construction must, in principle,
be discontinued; that is, not one part of the second floor
can be built contiguously with the adjoining lot. The
distance separating any side of the adjoining lot boundary must not
be less than 2 meters 50 (2m,50) (fig. 4-5-6).
When a second floor terrace covering a part of the ground floor is
adjacent to the property line, it must be enclosed on the adjacent lot side
by a wall 1 meter 90 (lm,90) high with eventually a bend of 0 meters 60
(Om,60) to each of its ends.
ARTIoL 8
1) In the case of construction in a continuous or semi-continuous row,
the builder can, to his liking, set up the main building, either
fronting the street or set back from the street. This setback
must not be more than 2 meters 50 (2m,50);
2) In the case of constructing detached construction, the builder
must site his main building at a distance of at least 2 meters 50
(2m,50) from the property line of the street.
In all cases of setback, the part of the land left free must be enclosed
at the property line of the street.
ARTICLE 9
Each property must be enclosed along the boundaries of adjoining lots
by a full (aolid) wall; the height of this mwst not be more than 3 meters
(3m,00).  The enclosures set up at the property line of the street must not
have a height of more than 2 meters (2m,00); they can be solid or screened.



ANNEX 11
page U
ARTICLE 10
All construction (buildingo or enclosures) located at the angle of
2 public lines must have a      coupb of at least 5 meters (5m,00).
ARTIOLI 11
Construction, whatever its nature, must be harmonious as to volume,
form, exterior materials and color, and preferably should conform to exterior
local tradition.
Frescoes and mosaics, as well as colorful paintings, will be allowed.
ARTICLE 12
In the case where temporary construction exists (huts, straw huts, etc.)
on the lot, all permanent new construction with a ground floor or a second
floor will only be authorized on the condition that the builder begins to
destroy the temporary construction immediately after the completion of the
permanent construction. The housing permit cannot be delivered to the builder
until he has satisfied these conditions.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
SENE@GAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
CALCULATION OF MONTHLY PAYMENTS FOR LOTS
A. Capital Cost of Lots
1.        Ehe capital cost of lots will include a) all infrastructure
costs including contingencies, b) costs of detailed engineering and
supervision estimated at some 6% of infrastructure cost, and c) capitalized
managempnt costs prior to the lot sale. The cost of infrastructure is
calculated first for the common lots (with no private infrastructure) by
dividing the total infrastructure cost of the project (except power) by
the directly assignable square meters of develoDed land (i.e. land used
for residential, commercial and industrial uses, and social facilities with
the exception of open space and transport). The costs of private water
connection and septic tank are then added to the cost of the common lot
to determine the cost of the lot with private infrastructure.
Infrastructuire Cost for Common Lots
9.        Pro;ject infrastructure cost is as follows:
Item                          Dakar (400 ha)      Tnies (60 ha)
--CFAF  millions----------
Topography                             40.                  6.0
Earthwork                             700.0                   -
Streets                                92.9                 13.9
Public Water                           46.9                  6.2
Public Sanitation                      48.0                  7.9
Plantations                             8.0                  1.2
Subtotal                         935.7
Contingencies
Physical (about 15%)                140.7                  5.3
Escalation (about 1D%)               93.6                  3.5
Subtotal                       1,170.0                477
Engineering                            70.0                  3.0
Total                          I,2h0.0                47-
Cost per ha                             3.1                   *7i



ANINEX 1?
Page 2
3.        Following is a breakdown of assignable land uses in percent
of total developed land:
Dakar
Lots                                52.5)
Schools                             1').(00
Health Centers                        .15
General Administration                .45
Market                               1.33
Industry                             2.0)
Total                      66.1o
In Thies, th* proportion of usable land has been assumed to be some G%V
of developed land.
4.        The infrastructure cost (including engineering) of a common lot
is estimated as follows:
Dakar           Thies
Cost per ha (CFAF)                  3,100,000        73),<)
Assignable uses in m2                   6,60o)         6,'iI)
Cost per assignable m2 (CFAF)             470            13
Lot size m2                               150            20.)
Cost per lot (CFAF)                    70,500         26.70,'
Management Prior to Lot Sale
5.        This includes the cost of processing the application and assigning
the lot.  Presently, similar tasks are performed by OHLI  for its housing
projects.  The following tasks are performed by the "Service de Gestion"
with five persons:
- information of applicants
- preparation of applicant file
- preparation of contracts
- information of attributees
- control of occupation
6.        The division processes some 1,000 applications a year and allocates
a variable number of units averaging some 700 units/year over the last three
years. During the 4-year site and services project, some 3,900 sites per
year will be allocated or about five times the number of housing units
presently allocated annually. The staff cost is estimated as follows:



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Cost (CFAF)
Division Chief          1 at 960,000        960,000
Staff                  20 at 380,000      7,600,300
8,56o,300
for the allocation of the 3,500 sites or some CFAF2,h00 per lot.  To
account for overhead it has been assumed that management cost prior to
lot sale would be some CFAF3,500 or 5% of the infrastructure cost of the
lot in Dakar.
Total Capital Cost of Lots
7.        Finally, the total capital cost of common lots is:
in Dakar          in Thies
Infrastructure            70,500            26,000
Management                 3,503             3 500
'Total              7k,000
The cost of lots with private water connection and septic tank
in Dakar would be:
'Water connection                          17,500
Septic tank                               100 000
Subtotal                            117,500
Contingencies - Physical                   16,700
Escalation                 11 800
Subtotal
Cost of public infrastructure,
enginenring and management                74,000
220.000
B. Recurrent Costs
Management
'J.       Once the lot is assigned, management costs will be limited to rent
collection and settlement of disputes in case of non-payment of rent. These
tasks will be entrusted to the communities of settlers in order to reduce the
cost of performing them (see Pnnex 9).  While the management cost will be



ANNEX 12
Page 7
arrived at only through experience, indications as to its upppr limit
may be given by the cost incurred by OHLM for similar tasks in public
housing operations. Salary cost of accounting and settlement of disputes
(contentieux) in OHLM appears to be of the order of CFAF2,30!) per uniL
per year. Including overhead, assumed at 50% of the cost of salaries,
total management cost would be of the order of CFAF3,45!) or CFAFI300/month.
This is certainly higher than the actual cost that would result from the
use of community organizations for rent collection and should provide a
reserve for bad debts. These costs will have to be adjusted according
to experience.
Water Consumption
10.       A-charge will be made for water consumption at the public foun-
tains and applied to the parcelles minimum. On the basis of consultants
NEDECO report, consumption of households depending upon public fountains
for their water supply is about 20 liter/day per person, i.e. the annual
consumption per parcelle can be estimated at some 73m3 at a cost of
CFAF45/m3; this represents CFAF3,300 per annum.
C. Calculation of Monthly Payments
11.       Monthly payments will be calculated to recover the capital costs
of lots (minus downpayment) at  7%   over 15 years and the recurrent costs.
The Government has agreed to require a downpayment corresponding to about
six monthly payments. They have been assumed as follows:
Downpayments    Capital to Repay
Capital        8% of           in Monthly
Cost      Capitel Cost       Installments
CFAF         CFAF              CFAF
Common Lots - Dakar         74,000         6,ooo           68,000
- Thies        29,500         2,500            27,000
Lots with private water   220,000         18,000          202,000
;The monthly payments would thus be:
Common Lots          Lots with Private Water
Dakar   Thies                  Dakar
Capital and Interest         620      300                 1,900
Management                    300     300                    300
Water                         280     280
Total                  1,200      680                 2,200
Costs of management and water will be variable and subject to revision on the
basis of incurred costs.
March 20, 1972



ANNEX 13
Page 1
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
RESIDENIIAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS - METROPOLITAN DAKAR
1.        Dakar is located in the Cap Vert Peninsula. The Dakar metro-
politan area is administratively a part of the Dakar municipality which
covers the entire Cap Vert region. The municipality also includes lufisque-
Bargny, a town of some 70,000 and a number of rural villages. Most of the
administrative and financial powers usually held by municipalities rest
with the Ministry of Public Works, Urbanism and Transport (MPWUT).
2.        Since its founding in the early 19th century, the city has spread
back along the peninsula from the initial settlement at the tip of the cape,
referred to as "le Plateau", ihich is now the center for Goverrment admini-
strative offices, industry, banking and commerce. Industrial development,
first concentrated around the port area, expanded in a linear fashion around
the bay along the railway line and the highway to Thies (Map 2). Residential
areas growing up beyond the Plateau are both planned and unplanned settlements,
with the latter occupying vacant land between the planned settlements and
spreading over the periphery of the metropolitan area.
3.        Four main developments essentially conditioned the present physical
structure of Dakar. The Medina, adjacent to the Plateau, was developed to
house the African population in 1914 when the plague struck Dakar. Grand Dakar,
in the next ring, was developed in 1946 with 3,200 lots to house African migrants
as well as to relocate the Africans from the city center. Pikine Ancien, much
further out, was developed between 1952 and 1958 with some 5,600 lots to resettle
African population from the center. The squatter settlements, already existing
in the central areas prior to independence, have since proliferated filling in
space between planned developments (Rebeuss, Autoroute, Fass) and spreading in
the periphery (Irreguliers Pikine, Grand Yoff, Grand Medina).
14.       The high standard districts of upper and middle income groups include
public (Office des Habitations h Loyers Mod6r6s, OHLM), and semi-public (Soci6t6
Immobiliere du Cap Vert) housing development with a median monthly household
income around US$170, private developments with median income above US$200, and
the old European settlement, "le Plateau", with mixed incomes. The housing unit
is a single family house or a flat in multistory buildings. Some 134,000 people
or about 26% of the population live in these districts. Housing standards are
generally comparable to those in Western countries, with individual electricity,
water, sanitation and public sewerage facilities. Local streets are wide, paved
and well maintained, and densities are quite low ranging from about 90 to 150
people per ha.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
5.        In the remaining much larger "traditional" districts, the
housing unit is a lot or "carrel'. The lot is enclosed by a wall and
residential structures are built within, the entire area serving as
living space with residents cooking and often sleeping outdoors. r 'his
arrangement permits accommodation of extended families, with average
households of 8-10 people. Housing standards and related facilities
range from medium to very low (Tables 4 to 7, Map h).
6.        The Medina, the oldest of the traditional areas, is a medium
standard district, housing some 14% of Dakar's population.  Median house-
hold income is about US$75 per month. In the Medina, each carre is about
300 m2 and is occupied on an average by 2.5 households, or 21 persons.
The net residential density is 700 persons per ha and the quality of housing
is mixed (Table 4). The district has complete systems of public water
fountains at 1 per 570 people and lavatories at 1 seat per 60 people.
About 90% of the households rely on these public facilities.
7.        Grand Dakar and Pikine Ancien, built on basically the same
pattern as the Medina, comprise the bulk of the "low standard districts"
which house some 1h6,000 people or 29% of Dakar's population. Median
household income is about US$60 per month. The lots are smaller than
in the Medina, averaging 200 m2 in Pikine Ancien and 170 m2 in Grand Dakar.
However, as the number of persons per lot is also smaller, net residential
densities are about the same as in the Medina, 700 persons per ha. The
standards of housing and level of services are also lower. Public fountains
are provided at one per 1,000 to 1,500 persons and lavatory seats at one for
86 to 135 persons.
8.        The "very low standard" and most rapidly growing districts are the
squatter settlements. They already house some 122,000 people or 24% of the
city's population. Although Dakar's squatter settlements differ among them-
selves, a useful distinction can be made between two types; those in the
"transitional zone" adjacent to the city center and those on the periphery
of the metropolitan area, some 12 Ian distant (Map 4). Population density in
the central transitional zone is almost triple that of the peripheral squatter
settlement (about 900 per ha compared to 350 per ha) due to smaller lots,
larger numbers of people per lot, and smaller areas of public open space.
Only about 2% of the housing structures are made of concrete or cement blocks,
compared to 71% in the peripheral district.
9.        Utility standards are poor in both types.  While the municipality
has provided some water fountains and lavatories for squatters in the tran-
sitional zone, the population-facility ratio is very high and the cause of a
considerable health hazard: 3,000-4,800 persons per water fountain and, in
the one district where lavatories exist, about 422 persons per seat. In Pikine
Irregulier, both these services are totally lacking and inhabitants rely upon
wells and pit privies. However, the scarcity of wells creates a considerable
hardship. Inhabitants of this district must either carry water long distances



ANNEX 13
Page 3
or buy it from peddlers at about eight times the cost per unit paid
by people living in high standard districts having individual house
connections. In all these "very low standard" districts there are very
few households with electricity.
10.       Social research indicates that households in the peripherally
located Pikine Irregulier typically resided previously in the transitional
central settlements. These are households that have obtained a relatively
stable income which allows them to undertake additional transportation
costs to employment, predominantly located in the Plateau and the port
area, and the) expense of building a new dwelling. Data furnished by
consultantsl. indicates that the median household income of Pikine Ir-
regulier is about US$70 per month while that of Dakar Irregulier is
US$55. In the low density peripheral zone, households typically build
good quality houses of homemade cement blocks, often with the assistance
of a hired laborer. Building is sporadic, occurring as funds are acquired.
Households appear able to cut costs by about half through investing their own
labor,and due to- the large size of lots, some families plant vegetables to
aid in reducing living costs. Available data suggests that this move to the
peripheral squatter settlement was also made possible through accumulated
savings; those living in Dakar Irregulier are saving about 12% of average
monthly income. This movement pattern from overcrowded central settlements
to somewhat better conditions on the periphery is similar to that observed
in many other cities of the developing world.
11.       Finally, in this category of traditional residential areas, mention
should be made of the old established villages on the periphery of the metro-
politan area, such as Ouakam, N'Gor, Yoff, Camberene, Hann, Thiaroye, and
Teumbeul (Map 4). They have served as focal points for part of the population
growth in the area and are estimated to house some 36,000 people. Residential
environmental conditions are similar to those of low to very low standard
districts.
I/ The Dakar Water and Sewerage Master Plan, prepared by Dutch consultants
NEDECO for UNDP/WHO, 1971.
April 26, 1972






TABLE 1
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
1970 SHARE OF DAKAR (CAP VERT) IN THE
MODERN SECTOR OF THE-ECONOMY.
Indicator                                   Cap Vert as % of Senegal
Population                                                16
Mcdern Housing Units                                      67
GNP    1                                                  5°
Manufpcturers (no. of firms)                              90
Labor Force Employed in Private Sector                    66
Government Employees                                      42
General Government Revenues!/                             68
Government Investment/                                    2
1/ See details in Table 2.
2/ See details in Table 3.
March 7, 1972



TABLE 2
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
ESTIMATE OF DISTRIBUTION OF GENERAL REVENUES
FROM DAKAR (CAP VER') AND REST OF COUNi'RY
1968/69
Senegal Totall"         Dakar (Cap Vert)
Billion CFAF     Billion CFAF  in % of Total
Direct Taxes                        3.44               5.54           65.6
Indirect Taxes
Imports                          14.77              11.08           75
Exports                           2.58                -             -
Production and Consumption        7.43               5.57           75
Other Taxes                         2.97               2.23           75
TOTAL                       36.19              24.42           67.5
1/ Country Economic Report, June 1970, Vol. II, Table 5.
SOURCE: Bank Estimate - The product of direct taxes from the Dakar Area
was calculated for the three-year period 1968-71 using the
"Situation Cumulee de l'Ex6cution des Operations de Recette au
30 Juin,1' Ministry of Finance. The proportion was found to be
rising from 65.6% in 1968 to 67.8% in 1969 and 70.7% in 1971.
The product of indirect taxes attributable to the Dakar Region
was estimated at 3/4 of the total, except for the export taxes
which are levied primarily on agricultural products.
March 7, 1972



TABLE 3
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
3STIM4AIE OF DIS.TIIBUlION OF INVESTM!ENTS IN
J:AKAR (CAP VERT) AND 7LST OF COUNTRY
Total for the 1966-71 Period-/
Investment Sectors                      Dakar (Cap Vert)   Rest of Senegal
--(Billion CFAF)----------
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing                                 12.21
Water Supply (incl. rural)                  l.3L                    .72
Drainage/Sewerage                             *°4                   .02
Industry/Tourism                              .10                   .41
Highways                                      .23                  3.36
Other Transport and CommuTnications           *5J                   .91
Education                                   1.i39                  2.05
Health                                        .53                   .32
Urbanism (includes housing)                 2.90                    .35
Other Investments                            .52                   1.95
TOTAL                         '-55                  27.30
Respective Share               (2),)                (76 )
1/  Small parts of foreign aid may not be included.
SOURCE: Situation des Depenses Budgetaires au 30 Juin. Ministry of Finance,
Centre Comntable, A. Peytavin.
March 7, 1972



SENXiAL3
1116 0141) SERVlCES it)OJEcT
DAKAR 11L1SIiENTTAI XMIVRO?rO&ETAL (2N0 IONS - 1959
Mantblw                                       H...oniag                                       of                                 % of Hdo...hold. wirh              Fubli Toll.t
Neewlatlwn               Ihncenr                  o. oP                tWall Structure in 7.                      uooicrroid        Fo-otaico          Toilet       Toilet         No             c      eth         E
No. of  Ner-one      j         (Aewengen in            ilnanennHon or    )Qorete or          ntent Bi.     tO-        cli Five L i                                                                                              wr    7' FOorT with  or, Tahk Privatlect.riity
'Voartheca               (b & g                       000 C1)  _               Cayutes          C,v Cs.t Block    & Otther    -noo ilo     Croooections(9) (7%       9) 3           Sewrage       or Latrine   Tao. ELidtc           per tt C       n n HrWeholdn  (12)
, igh 5taudardr
Zone B                         700                        1 lS0                                   10)                                      100                                      96              2         2                                    100
Point E                      4,000                    middle high v.h .
Mlett,           40 ,ooo                                                                                                                                                                                                   22
6tit  R..td.-                 5,000                                                                                                                  
SICAP                       41d700                         63                 5560                100                                       93                                     100                                                              97
D1erIe                       5 000                    middle and high
Colon.ae iS                   1o000             |     aiddl. -nd biigh
ltann HoCk                   4,500                    low-middle
IIW                         16,400                         58                 1570                10)                                       99                                     100                                                              97
Waongou Ni1yc                7:500                    ntddle
Zone A                        3,500                   low-middle
Duvane Port                  2,500                    low-middle
Fmnr Tiroir                  2 000              ,          40                  270                100                                                           does not            98             0          2                                     94
Total                   aTm             26                                                                                                                 spply
B. Median. Niandarda
Medina.                     67.000                         33                 8100                 41              57            2         14           82           570            10             13         71           34       60              70
Fawn rasIer                 j,500                    lov-rriddle                                  cr.inly c.b.                            not avail.    3           1500      t
Total                  71,00            14
C. Law Stand-rde
Grand laar                  44,3°°                         25                 5700                 19              74            7         14           25          1300             1             19         80           24       86               67
Grand Yolf                  10,000                    very lov,lowe                                               0taily wood            not avail.      6          1500
Colobane 1                   6,800                   low                                                                                                 ?          lOD
Cheerpn de Course            2,500                    very lor,low                                                                                                  110 lit
Piline Anclae               82 700                         24                 9900                 59              33            8         10           62          1000             1             47         52           14       135             55
Total                                   29
D.  Very Lo. Standarda
lrrng.lier Dahar            65,500                         20                 9500                2                90            3         _            22          300                             8         92            6       422              3
Fans Paillottea               9,5(0                  lon, very low                                                raninly wot              _             2          4800
RaY  Mission                  2,000                   very low                                                      wood                   -              3          700
Rtebeuis                      9O 17,500                    18                 2200                 9               83            8         _            24           700            -              13         37           0         -        |
Pikine                       13re goler *  13,500          23                 1650               11                29            -         -             03                                                   62           0                         O
Total                 1a,rD            2
E.  Vitiages and Dlsper-ed
0akaa, Yoff                                                                                                      ho  avail.              riot arail.
Carberene, Hlaw. VIllage
Han. Peehetrs, intl.         36."'0           7
ThIaroe  Yeusbeul          -
TRsND TOTAL         510,000         100
These erean were not covered by the hEIDCO stady,  loaitoatlot, is Bhatd staff estimate. The Platoao} is the bult-up ce-t-l city arid the  lte ro-ldentlelle Is the h.igr clasw
residentiatl area, the non-Afri.an populatinlr estimated at snome 30,000 is concentrated ilr tiaen two reas. The village- are a mixture rf type C .ai D,I
/All units h-w Individ..I cnnections less than I",$ fig.-,e reflect people that -ele -lt of't' f-r not paigtheir ..t.c bills.,
4/Site and aervlceo done by Governmernt.
201'PP2:  570DECO, DQkar,s watetr end Sewerage Master Plan, Etudes Socoloogtque  Torre Tr, nrarber in       refers to Table number i  Tlve J1.
Marci 7, 1972



SEPihGAL
SITE Aill) SERVICES PROOTT(.
DAKlAR H0USI0 G CH41RACTERISTICf; - ]969
Ownership (26)
Average                                          Covered Floor Space                Average                                     Y of Households' Service
Average         No. of Pesons         Average       2                                      2          No. of Roomss        Average         Owner:                With Housing
No. of Persons       Per Unit- or        Lot jice       m  per                                m  per    Per Household    Pers/R.oo           Co-o-rnec                  Family
Quartiers             Populstion       Per Household            Carre (6)        in m  (19)   Person        mj2 (19)    X of lot    Person            (23)             (23)           Buying      Renting     or Others       VUknown!
A.  HiRh Standards
Zone B                     700               9                     9               500            56       | 145          29            16           4.6                 2.0            21          36            33               IO
Point E                 4,000
Plateau*               4Do00o
Cite Resid.*             5,000
SICAP                  41,700               8                      8               160            20           58        36             7            3.0                2.5            33          36            17               14
Derkle                  5,000
Colobane II             1,000
Fan. Hock               4,500
HlEN                   16,400               10                    10               110            11          71          67             7,1          3.5                2.8            33          38            15               14
Ousgou Niaye            7,500
Zone A                  3,500
Douane Port             2,500
Fass Tiroir             2 000                7                     7                80            11          63          84             9            3.0                2.5            28          24            30               18
Total            133,800
B.  Medium-Standards B                                                                                                                                                                       3             4
Medina                 67,000                7                    21               300            14         132          46             6            2.6                2.7            38          54             8
Fass Casier             4,500
Total             71,500
C.  Low Standards
Grand Dakar            44,300                7                    15               170            11          73          44             5            2.6                2.7            44          45             9                2
Grand Yoff             10,000
Colobane 1              6,800
Champs de Course        2,500
Pikine Ancien          82,700                8                    10               200            20         73            37            7            3.3                2.3            60           33            6                1
Total            146,300
D.  Verv Low Simodards
Irregulier Dakar       65,500               6                     13               130            10          5B          44             4            2.0                3.0            24          22            38               16
Fass Paillottes         9,500
Ras Mission             2,000
Rebeuss                 9,000
Pikine  ixtensiorln/   17,500               8                      8               160            20          51          32             6            3.2                2.4            82           8             6                4
Pikine Irregulier'   18,500                  7                     8               200            25          65           33            a            3.2                2.3            77          20             3
To tal1          122, 000
Villages and DisPersed*
Ouskam, Yoff
Casiberene, Hann Vil.
Hann Pecheurs, incl._36400
Thiaroye4 Yeumbeul
GRA44D TOTAL      510,000
*These areas sere not covered by the NEDECO study, clasificati.n is Bank staff e.timate   The platea.  is rhe built-up .e-,tral city and the cite residentielle iz l'e hig' cla.s  e;s<serrtiai areE,
the son-African population estimated at some 30,000 is concentrated in these two areas.  The villages are a mixture of type C and D.
I/ U,.it refers to a typical housing unit in the modern sector;earre refers to the traditional African unit cossisting of a plot enclosed by 4 walls inside which various structures are erected.
- Site  an  ervice-  done by   vornrmst.t.
XSOmPT: DEIt,F(G,  takar'  Water asd Sewerage M4aster P1.,, Etude. Socin.lgiques Tome lt, rmc11,dr in ( )es   so Table Isomber in t'ome 11.
' sal.c  '1t, 1 7t?



S E tiJ; AIt
SITE AimD OEI 'ICili i OJEm1'
DAKAR INCOME DISTRIBLI'IION SY DI rPICT - 1969
Population                                 Percentage Uj2tribution
Quartiers            No. of Personis                            of tou-eUoll  Iteads' Incolne.;                           4edian
(000) CFAr/month                                    000 CFAF
0-10   10-15   15-20   20-25   25-30   30-50   50-100   100+   Total
A. High Standards
Zone B                          700         6     2         -       2         -     15        4/    31        100          78
Point E                       4,000
Plateaa                      40,ooo
Cite Resid .2/                5,000
SICAP                        41,700        12     4        6        7         9     341       18        8     100          37
Derkle                        5,000
Colobane II                   1,000
Fann Hock                     4,500
HLM                          16,400         6     3        5        8       10      36l       28        4     100          4o
Ouagou Niaye                  7,500
Zone A                        3,500
Douane Port                   2,500
Fass Tiroir                   2            17    10       12       1421     14      21        10        2     100          25
Total                133,800
B.  Medium Standards
Medina                       67,000        34    15       122/    10          6     15         6        2     100          15
Fass Casier                   4,500
Total                 71,500
C.  Low Standards
Grand Dakar                  44,300        40    1921    11        11         3     12         3        1     100          13
Grand Yoff                   10,000
Colobane I                    6,800
Champs de Course              2,500
Pikine Ancien                82,700        46     92/    14        11        8       8         3        1     10o          12
Total                146,300
D.  Very Low Standards
Irregulier Dakar             65,500        35    3121    38         8        4       3         .5       .5    100          12
Fass Paillottes               9,500
Ras Mission                   2,000
Rebeuss                       9,000
Pikine Extension 1/ 7,500                  42    3o0/    13         9        4       2         _        _     100          11
Pikine Irregulier            18,500        23    26       2021    12          9     10         _        -     100          15
Total                122,000
E.  Villages and Dispersed       36,400
TOTAL                510,000         34    17       13      10         6      13         5       2      100-         15
2 Indicates the class in whieh the median falls.
2/ Weighted average on the 10 districts.
Site and service. done by Government.
SOURCE:  NEDECO Dakar Water and Sewerage Master Plan.
March 7, 1972



TABLE 7
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
RESIDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS IN
DAKAR URBAN AREA - 1969
SUMMkAR
Population Living
in Quarters With
Housing Structure                           Number       % of Total
Concrete or cement block walls           259,300            51
Cement block and other materials
(wood/tin)                            226,100           44
Other Material (wood/tin)                 24,60o             5
. Total                  510,000           100
Water Service
Private connection                       178,800            35
No private connection                    331,200            65
Total                 510,000           100
Sanitary Service
Private toilet on sewerage               157,500            31
Private toilet on tank or latrine         64.,200           12
No private toilet                        288,300            57
Total                 510,000           100
Electrical Service
Electricity connection                   289,200            57
No electricity connectin                 220,800            43
Total                 510,000           100
March 7, 1'372



TABLE 8
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Quarter                      Disbursement                        Cumulative
1*                               -                                 _
2
3                               0.09                              0.09
4                               0.17                              0.26
5                               0.11                              3.37
6                               0.11                              0.48
7                               0.114                             0.62
8                               0.144                             1.06
9                               0 *°59                            1.65
10                               0.28                              1.93
11                               0.140                             2.33
12                               0.68                              3.01
13                               o.66                              3.67
114                              0.33                              4.00
15                               0.36                              4.36
16                               0.61                              4.97
17                               0.58                              5.55
18                               0.23                              5.78
19                               0.35                              6.13
20                               0.64                              6.77
21                               0.62                              7.39
22                               0.26                              7.65
23                               0.19                              7.84
24                               0.16                              8.00
* Starting from signing of credit agreement.
June 5, 1972



SENEGAL
SITE AND 5ERVICES PROJECT
I1APLEWENTATION SCHEDULE-/
Years                 1                         2                          3                         4                         5
IMPLEMEN4TATTON                                                                                                                                       _.
Quarters    1      2     3      4     5      6     7     8      9      10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
DAiKAB
Phase 1 construction                        ***   ***    +BB   BRR   III   III   SSS   SSS   SSS   SSS
site occupation
Phase 2 construction                        ***   ***                                           1II   III   SSS   SSS   SSS   SSS
site occupation
Phase 3 construction                                                                            ***   ***   +BB   BM   III   III   SSS   SSS   SSS   SSS
site occupation
Phase 4 construction                                                                            ***   **                                            III   III   sss   sss   SSS   SsS
site occupation
THIES
Phase I construction                                                                                   III   sss   sss
site occupation
Phase 2 construction                                                                                   *X*                                                 II    ssS   sss
site occupation
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Project  Manager                                                                                             - _          -----  -----  -----  -----  -----   -----
Civil Engineer-                                                  --                              -      -
Accountant                                                 =     _     _                                                               -----
Savings and Credit Expert                                                                                          -- -- --     _____--
Commsunity Organization Expert                                                                                           ----- ----- ----- -----
COM MUNITY IMPROVEMENT
Criteria Study
Pilot Project
Legend                                                                                                                   1!/  Implementation starts at credit agreement signing.
*    Detailed Engineering
+    Review of Design and Contract Documents
B    Tendering of Bids
R    Review of Bids and Award of Contracts
I    Construction of Infrastructure
S    Construction of Sanitary Facilities, Schools and Hlealtb Clinics
---  Possible Extension of Tec}mical Assistance
June 5, 1972



SSENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
OHLM - SITE AND SERVICES DIRECTORAT'E
PROJECT INCOME STATEME1Ir 1973-82
(in CFAF millions)
Year Ending June 30             73       74        75       76       77       78        79       oO       81       82
REVENUES
Payments from Purchasers of Lots%
Interest                                          18.5    37.5      54.2    71.7      68.3     64.7    61.o    56.6
Administration                                    10.7    23.9      34.6    47.8    47.8    47.8    47.8    47.8
Water                                              8.3    18.9    27.2       37.7    37.7    37.7    37.7         37.7
TOTAL REVENUES                                37.5    80.3   116.0   157.2   153.8   150.2   146.5   142.1
OPERATING EXPENSES
Administration and Management                     12.6    28.1    40.7       56.2    56.2    56.2    56.2    56.2
Water                                              9.8    22.2    32.0    44.4        44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                      22.4     50.3    72.7    10o.6   100.6   100.6   100.6    100.6
OPERATING INCOME                                     15.1    30.0    43.3    56.6         53.2    49.6    45.9    4l-5
1/ Assuming a default rate of 1504 on annual payments due.
June 5, 1972                                                                                                                       0



SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
OHIM - SITE AND SERVICES DIRECTORATE
PROJECT SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS 1973-82
(in CFAF millions)
Year Ending June 30          73       74        75         76        77         78        79       80         81        82
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Gross Income                                           15.1       30.0      43.3      56.6      53.2     49.6       45.9      41.5
Payment for Lotsi!
Downpayments                                        43.2      27.4       29.4      13.8       -        -         _         _
Monthly Payments of Principal                       10.4       22.3      34.2      47.7      51.1     54.7       58.4      62.8
TOTAL                                          68.7      79.7    106.9    118.1        104.3    104.3      104.3     104.3
Equity
IDA Credit                                90.1     264.4    267.2    274.7    155.0
Government Capital Contribution
for civil works                        44.4    130.2    131.7    135.3          76.6
for engineering and pre-     17.5      28.3      24.1      23.8      14.1        3.0
project management
Developed land for schools and                     (52.0)    (54.6)    (52.0)    (54.6)
health centers, transferred
to Government (per contra)
TOTAL SOURCES              17.5     162.8    435.4    447.8    479.0    298.1          104.3     104.3     104.3     104.3
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital
Civil Works                              134.5    394.6    398.9        410.0    231.6
Engineering                     17.5      19.0      10.0       11.5
Management Prior to Lot Sale               9.3      14.1       12.3      14.1       3.0
Developed Land for schools,                         (52.0)    (54.6)    (52.0)    (54.6)
and health centers trans-
ferred to Govt. (per contra)
TCYOAL APPLICATIONS        17.5     162.8    366.7       368.1    372.1    180.0
Surplus at End of Year               -        -        68.7      79.7      106.9    118.1      104.3     104.3     104.3    104.3
1/ Some payments are expected to occur at the end of fiscal 1974. However, to simplify calculation, it has been
assumed that all lots of the first phase (100 ha in Dakar) were sold at the beginning of fiscal 1975.
June 5, 1972



SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
OHLM - SITE AND SERVICES DIRECTORATE
PROJECT BALANCE SIEET 1973-82
(in CFAF millions)
73       74       75         76          77         78         79          80         81         82
FIXED ASSETS
Work in Progress                       17.5    180.3   176.3       167.8       183.0
Retained Developed LandL!                                13.0       26.6        39.6       53.2       53.2        53.2       53.2       53.2
Notes Receivable from Sales of Lots                     304.1      617.4       897.7    1,185.6    1,134.5    1,079.8    1,021.4       958.6
CURRENT ASSETS
Office Supplies - Not Estimated
Cash in Treasury
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Net Current Assets                                       68.7      148.4       255.3      373.4      477.7       582.0      686.3      790.6
(incl. net income & repayment for
lots, downpayments & principal)
TOTAL ASSETS                17.5    180.3    562.1       960.2    1,375.6    1,612.2    1,665.4    1,715.0    1,760.9    1,802.4
LIABILITIES
Capital and Surplus
IDA Credit                                      90.1    354.5      621.7       896.4    1,051.4    1,051.4    1,051.4    1,051.4    1,051.4
Government Capital Contribution/       17.5     90.2    192.5      293.4       390.8      415.8      415.8       415.8      415.8      415.8
Retained Earnings                                        15.1        45.1       88.4      145.0      198.2       247.8      293.7      335.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES           17.5    180.3    562.1       960.2    1,375.6    1,612.2    1,665.4    1,715.0    1,760.9    1,802.4
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/  Includes land for commercial and industrial uses which can be sold.
2/  Less developed land for school and health centers transferred to Government (see Table 11).
June 6, 1972



TABLE 13
SENEGAL
SITE AWD SERVICES PROJECT
GOVERN1E$NT INVESTMENTS IN URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE
IN DAKAR (CAP VERT)
1967-1971
(in million CFAF)
Sectors               1967      1968       1969      1970       1971      Total
Water Supply and        -        23.5      613.3       18.4    1,187.6   1,8h2.8
Distribution
Drainage/Sewerage       -         -          -        31.0          .8      3l.9
Transport              73.8      35.7      173.0      40.0        94.0     416.5
Communications          -        19.0        6.0       2.9        25.0      52.9
Urbanization_./       844.4     620.1      391.6     431.1       616.6   2,903.8
of which:
Site 4 Services    (94.0)   (108.0)    (20.0)        (9.3)     (52.0)   (263.0)
OHLM_/             (560.0)   (509.0)   (264.o)   (147.0)    (445.0) (1,925.0)
SICAP              (190.0)   (  _  )    (98.0)   (2h9.0)    (119.3)   (656.j)
TOTAL           913.2      698.3   1,183.9      523.4    1,924.0   5,247.8
1/  Includes public investment for housing and related infrastructure in new
site and services, CHLM, and SICAP operations, and in existing residential
areas. (INote: some grading for the site and services operations was done
by the military and is not reflected in investments given here).
2/  Government contribution less operating expenses and OH24 projects in the
regions.
SOURCE: Situation des Depenses Budg6taires au 30 Juin, Ministry of Finance,
Centre Comptable A. Peytavin.
March 6, 1972



TABLE 14
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
HOUSING AND RELATED INIFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT PROGRAMS
IN DAKAR WIT5H1NWDWM0M WP ROJECT (5-YEAR PERIOD)
Without Project         With Project
Number     Cost         Number    Cost
(US$ million)           (US$ million)
Housing Units
1. OHLM                              5,000       25.4        4,250       15.9
2. SICAP                             2,500       12.7        2,500        9.8
Site & Services
3. Lots                              5.000        1.5       14,000        5.3
4. Outlays for Housing Materials                  2.3                     7.9
5. Value of Self-help                             1.6                     5.2
Total Public Outlay (1+2+3)         12,500       40.O       20,750       31.0
Total Excluding Self-help           12,500       42.3       20,750       38.9
(1+2+3+4)
Total (1+2+3+4+5)                   12,500       43.5       20,750       44.1
I.e.  Some 60% more families would be accommodated with the project
at a public investment 25% less, at a total cost excluding self-help 10% less
and at a total cost including self-help roughly equivalent.
Assumptions - Without project: OHIM and SICAP basis past experience of costs
and plan; site and services lots at lowest amenity level (as
in past); outlay for housing materials/self-help on basis
60%/40%.
With project: OHLM: 2,000 economic units at similar cost
as without project, 2,250 supereconomic at half cost;
SICAP: same number as without project, but with a 20%
reduction of costs; site and services as per project.
June 6, 1972



TABLE 15
SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND RENTAL VALUE
A. Costs                                                     (US$ million)
1.  Infrastructure Costs (excluding social services         5.5
and primary infrastructure) for 15,600 sites
2.  Value of land                                           1.6
3.  Outlays for housing materials                            8.6
L. Self-help valuation                                       5.7
5. Total excluding self-help                                15.7
6.  Total including self-help                               214
B. Rental Value (on basis of rents charged in city)
7. Minimum rental value per annum                           2.41
8.  Likely rental value per annum                           3.94
C.  Rates of Return (in %)                    Minimum Rent   Likely Rent
Assuming 20-year life of structures:
9.  on total cost                              9.5         18.0
10.  on cost excluding land value              11.0         19.0
11.  on cost excluding land value             1.0          27.0
and self-help
Assumptions:
Costs:    Land cost US$3,910 per ha.
Construction 80% of houses at US$780 and 20% at US$1,560
of which 60% is for material and 40% would be the value
of self-help labor.
Annual Rents in US$
Rental Value:                                    Minimal          Likely
Houses on common lots Dakar             140              235
Houses on lots with private water       280              470
connection Dakar
Houses in Thies                          94                94
June 6, 1972



SENEGAL
SITE AND SERVICE9 PhO.JE:r
DAKAR AVERAGE MON'riOLY HOUSEU1)LF EXPI;:NDII1REFS BY ],1JPRICT - 1969
Averge       _                                                                    Average Monthly E.P.nditCree by Are_
Pop.lation        Monthly           Toettiit
No. of Persons    Income                   (% sf          HuigVtro  ihigSboa                                                                        rseotSboa                                  Others I
OsarCIerS             (6 Of 8)r  (nnCPAF                         (%F)  OIntoue)  (CFAP)    (7.)  (CFAF)      (m) -      (CFAP)      (2)       (CFAF)                  (CAF)       (       (CFAF)      ()         (CFAF)     ()
A.  High Scandarde                                                                                                           
Zone 8                     700          108,438       64,691     60          13160      20.3     2434       3.8         2471       3.8        18065       27.9        6534       10.1      24599      38.0      40092       62
Poinc e                  4,000
Place.u                 40,000
Cite Reald,              5,000
SICAP                   41,700           62,669       40,598     65           6883      17.0     1049       2.6         1404       3.5         9336       23.1        3890        9.6      13226      32.7      27372       67.3
Derkle                   5,000
Colobene II              1,000
Penn Hock                4,500
HLM                     16,400           57,681       43,225      75          9222      21.3     1223       2.8     1  1073        2.5        11518       26.6        3463        e.0      14981      34.6      28244       65.4
OuagOU Hiays             7.500
Zone A                   3,500
Douane Port              2,500
Facs Tiroir              2.000           39,863       29,652     74           6474      21.8      763       2.6          662       2.2         7899       26.6        2029        6.8       9928      33.4      29935       66.6
Total             133.800
B. Hedie. Standards                                                                                                                                                                    6
Medina                  67,000           33,242       22,602     68           1540       6.8      313       1.4          881       3.9         2754       12.1        1436        6.3       4170      18.4      29072       81.6
Pa.s CaSier 4t500
Total              71,500
C.  Low Standards
Grand Dakar             44,300           25,140       18,109      72           967       5.3      228       1.3          628       3.5         1823       10.1         945        5.2       2768      15.3      22372       84.7
Grand Yoff              10.000
Colobane I               6.800
Chenpe de Course         2,500
Pikine Ancien           82,700           23,467       20,210     86            905       4.5      323       1.6          558       2.8         1786        8.9        1590        7.9       3376     16.8       20091       83.2
Total            146,300
D. Very Low Standards
Irregulier Dakar        65,500           19,673       15,341     78            857       5.6      411       2.7          375       2.4         1643       10.7         592       3.9        2235     14.6       17438       85.4
Face Paillottes          9,500
Ras Mission              2,000
Rebeaus                  9,000
mEtne ExtensiOnL/       17,500           18,170       16,981      93            90        .5      139        .8          417       2.4          646        3.7        1272       7.5        1918      11.2      16252       88.8
Pikine IrreBoier        18,500           22,841       17,342      76           301       1.7      606       3.5     t   624         3.6        1531        8.8        1418       8.2        2949      17.0   1  19892       83.0
Total            1a2,000
E. Villages                  36, 40o
Weighted                                                                                                 
Average                         35,439       22,490      63           2050      9.1       458       2.0          710       3.2         3218       14.3       1609         7.2       4827     21.5       17663       57.3
* Other includes food. do-estic, CIOthing and others. .s
Source - NEDECO Dakar Water and Sewerage Master Plan, EtudeS SociologiqueS, Tome II, Tables 49 and 53.
I/ site end services dOne by tiovernsent.
March 7, 1972



AD  OP DIRECTORS
O H L M
DRETORGENERAL  -                                                                            ORGANIZATION CHART
|    DIRECATOR  | |NMONITORING                               DIRECTFOR
| SITE AND SERVICES   CCOMMITTEE                                 HOUSING
LEGAL AND LAD            ENGINEERING                                  GENERAL                      
PROGRAMING          TITLE AFFAIRS          AND SUPERSION                               ADMINISTRATION
RURAL
ASSSTACE  ECTON.                                                                                                                                                                     FGEISTNG






Mop I
lE-                                                                                                  M N    A    U    R    I   T    A      Nr I   A                                                 SPANISH,tiARAi         s      ALGERIA               A
SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                                                       I tTo lkd,
ADMINISTRATION AND MAIN TRAN POT t
NETWOR K                                                                                                                          i ti Dlt hnon  too no     r                      MAURITANIA
1-.I  YVVlnte tna  IVltdinnl    ndariest                                                                                                        -                                 -'             j  MALI    J       NIGER
Rg.-ionl boundares/                                                                                                                                                              SEN GAL       -       (
D.port-1.1o 6onoe .. Ef)r-4                                            E   GI, I  O        N                                            GA8At_fl r/PR kf /
®    National Cppta                                                                                                                                                              P   GN    ' /     EA N    '        { \ 
®    Regional capitals                                                                                                                                                                         GUI 1         -              NIGERIA         A
O Gepartmen-al coptals\                                                                                                                                                               SIERRA LE_COAST
-16'          ~~Rivers                                                                                                                                                                                   '*tm-IS  /  lSr_  IE AT G          CMROO 
nltemillEnt sItroms                                                                             %..                                            \I/EE A/ec CAMCYERY I
Paved toads                              7                     °                                         e                                     5 °                            rrr                                    E   LIA         . 
.----oed toads under constiuntion        /                                                                                                                                            Oiai                                    PG<r/  GUINEAr J\  L 'G"
Gotaul toads                                                                                  UPS, / ~     \I \ <~~z\Noo.C\..}r
----Earth  toads                     /'                                                                                                                                                                                            '>)   ogJ/ou**I-__C  sosoup   )  2  
4.   Intetnatoo lional agitpgournl F<  ur  - 
SITE  AND SERV CES PROJECT    /fQS)\                                !              F~~oesV)\ toeIbabp                                                                                                                i
,nPropnct Are: Lcculiony oro klnE'\  M' 0   
GA/ AR.  -   -  , .sdu          gt'" otb\
sW- )%s i Re X w% XM~~~~~~~~~~~NW
0     IV 30 30 |0 50 HO _0 H_  Om   90 10
B.  0}dS o U_ Rt  __ EN LL                                                                                                         w
CAASIRIG -V. 
V                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 3844
IAARCH   1072






Mop 2
17-30                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17-Z5-
SENEGAL
Site and Services Project
DAKAR METROPOLITAN AREA
GENERAL LAND USE 1971 AND PLANNED
DEVELOPMENT 1973-77                                                                                  cae/
+                                                                              (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZONES LAIN  
CAMbERENE    /GOtF
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r    ,YUMbEUL
w                                              s         X               _j>s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIKINE ,Rt_e
O ' |t r°~~~~~~~~YFX                                                                                              H llEIAROYE
\  / 5      \   --7i i            /z/HANN~~~~~~~~~A  I
(J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
-:.: > t /lNDUSTa --- ~~~~Central business district (CBD)
>  )  \  A - 1 ZONE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_____  Proiect area
t  yASS  : \                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4th plan (1973-1977)
5  .t  DINA\  ;  i    PORT~ ~ ~~~________  Major streets
#           ,,, I * ~~Railway
t;Y - 9Ir~NA           t                                                               .                        GOREE ISEAND                         1     l4
-14'45'14 :                                                                           .
I~~~~~~~~
K     t-j4.                                                               0       1     ~ ~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  3  4  5   
_ P~RTUGUESE GUIA __  1Ui Nos t0 {n t1S                                                                                  THIA JEHMl
MAe.H  12                                                                                                       Re n   and           comercil7
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rceto on ogricu.1725                                                                         bRD37






MAP 3
SENEGAL                                             Darou Ba-    Dar'ou-SO                                0a
SENEGAL                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~Rulnes                                          a   .
Site  and  Services  Project                                                                        I '                           A
THIES - PROJECT LOCATION                               I               '
O                                                          l              2j 3 N  ' \Pogr iene'..-
Kilmtr                          /                                     T I                                rw9 _r    
N                                                                         K S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-aid-ou  .
Tiona Pe ,u                                *                       7
\ Tali            T~~iona  /--                                                                 -
e e Drarha -\   Ct.                                             Silman K s *o *       ' -ir  'oth
a-  /            t       l     ~    ~~~~~ W                          *    u *..,   abey '- -4,gjsn  Mbyr- -->
1             -~~~~~ 
-~~~               ~ //  A-h N.WI1.WUk>                                                  v _                   X      ,
None ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~uan                              yn                              \   LlN
*LTHE   SiU E    T ANE  A L- Kin/                                 Poj ntoran c* c         \            
vs        I M
- k _~~~~~~. N                                  /   .         R aeYilonred  \\\           /              san
< ] ORI UGUSE  GUNEAL  r. GUINt                                  Prjdoe                                                                 IBRD 38
F  1.72
ZONE~~~~~~~~~'
umssnar,insr,,
- -- ----                              ~                                                     ,p6~,,5,rt,5/55  acr0,ung I  is
N  Trdlon,i 655'                            INs,I B~,N ans Mayrs fe.as
THIES SUESNE GUINA  L) GUINEAet -                                          0 h
FEERUARY 1972                                                                                                                 1680 3846~~~~~~~~oad






Mop 4
1730'                                                            1725
SENEGAL
Site and Services Project
DAKAR METROPOLITAN AREA
RESIDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS -1969
'A' zrr \ 80. /4 ~~~~~~~GRANDEF E,
-14t45  e   t     \/       1tX          \        <          J     ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                          ~       ~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~ A  NIYE  lk_ 14 k n 7
1'445'
NGOR! c    z: 
[  i_  \\   A RPORIA                       X       #                X-                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESIO14TI1AL AREAS
2 > ,, \ - 4 tw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANN                                          Code EPdlsAa
11-UAKAM                                                                      CRAP          Cite P| 
[   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                   -     ndionoIct@s  s " -e
M a A U k Tt A N 1 A                        .                                                            G1bOaSEE ISAND
s In     -, 9 9 0                                    <~    2                            Cy                                        j    14440'
Proect orerS  E N E G A L ID9                                                                             
iZb                                                                                                       0 ttt  )<J     1  2    3      4      M ay   6 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e Tir.-
S   l  _.o t \ _> }~~~~4                                                                   7-5'
FEBRIIARY 19772IRDf QA1






MAP 5
SENEGAL                                                      AN
Site and Services Project                                           a  r             E
PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE PHASING
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TO AIRPORT                                                                   7
//~~                            _ -/     -             ;/ , 
Phases of Project 
Implementation                               ]                         /  /
Financed by Government
TO~ ~ ~ be                                      j         15        2OOCA   
Primary            ExtructedT be       O
Existingtedo  P posed                                  t
Infrastructure                for the  for later
p    ct onstruction 
Roads                -r-
Water mains    ----0                                                       0.5        110        115        2.0
*  Wells          A  Compressor                                                      Kilometers
FEBRUARY 1972                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 3848






MAP 6
AKAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~
-    Secoodar'  hoos                                 a
,.,                                                                                                    5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENEGAL
Total plann ing Area Represented  130 ha
:   :\::    -# /;  t z  Q  ///   /                                                                      * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Foue sroro
.\ $;QS  =   \;  t\\\9/g   1   1                                                                    |      hA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on Mosque
t D g  ;  oo  zoo     oo      400                               Secondory s-reets
1 rv CENTER ______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Water distr,ber,orr
FFKVIJAKI IYM                                                                                                                                        D MO  MO  Q0






Mop 7
. .. . .. . . . .                       ........            ..  
D    Lots with individual water
connection
Other lots
School
A,/C/ D ..... ~~Woter distribution
*   Fountains
Public toilets
/    Mosque
-.... /Arterial streets
SENEGAL
Site and Services Pro,ect
DETAILED LAND USE SCHEME
N
*                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 50            100                          200
Meters
FEBRUJARY 1972                                                                                                                      IBRD 3850






MAP S
SENEGAL
Site and Services Project
INDICATIVE SITE PLAN
school
E]Lots
[3mosque
~'Fountains
Fire hydronts
IIPublic toilets
Arterial streets
toco4 streets
o            so            eo                         200         J           ==Z>To rest of proiect site
FEURLAY 1972                                                                                                                                                                ISRD 33551



