CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 336 SE
Project Agreement
(Site and Services Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
OFFICE DES HABITATIONS A LOYER MODERE
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 336 SE
Project Agreement
(Site and Services Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
OFFICE DES HABITATIONS A LOYER MODERE
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and OFFICE
DES HABITATIONS A LOYER MODERE (hereinafter called OHLM).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Senegal (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that OHLM agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower has agreed to make available to OHLM, the proceeds
of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
WHEREAS OHLM, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. OHLM shall carry out Parts B, C, D, G and H of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, engineering


﻿4
and public utility practices. To that end OHLM shall carry out Part B of the Project
in accordance with the tranches or in accordance with such other tranches to be,
from time to time, agreed upon between the Borrower, the Association and OHLM.
Section 2.02. In carrying out Part B of the Project, OHLM shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, OHLM shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) OHLM shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents, construction and
procurement schedules and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   OHLM shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. (a) For the purpose of the Project, OHLM shall establish and
maintain a Direction Parcelles Assainies, a Section d'assistance aux communautes
and a Comitd de Controle under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿5
(b)   Before the allocation of the first lot, or such other date as the
Association shall otherwise agree, OHLM shall establish a parcelles assainies
investment fund and, thereafter, shall not take any action to discontinue the
operations of such fund without the prior approval of the Association.
(c)   Before the allocation of the first lot, OHLM      shall establish and,
thereafter, maintain a Commission d'attribution of lots for the purpose of selecting
lot purchasers in accordance with the conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement or in accordance with such other conditions as the Association shall
otherwise agree. Such Commission shall include representatives of lot purchasers.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, OHLM shall:
(a)   for the lots for housing use and the lots for commercial and industrial
use under the Project, enter into sales contracts with lot purchasers in conformity
with the model sales contract;
(b)   sell the lots for housing use or the lots for commercial and industrial
use, to lot purchasers or SONEPI, respectively, at a price which shall be determined
in accordance with the procedure set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and shall apply to lot purchasers the management and water charges
referred to in paragraph II of such Schedule;
(c)   require each lot purchaser of a lot for housing use to pay the price
referred to in the foregoing paragraph (b): (i) in a lump sum or (ii) following
a down payment of eight per cent (8%) on such price, in monthly instalments,
over a 15-year period, at the interest rate of seven per cent (7%) a year;
(d)   require SONEPI to pay the price determined in the foregoing paragraph
(b) in a lump sum;
(e)   (i) (A) offer to any other purchaser the lots for commercial and
industrial use at a price which shall be at least the price determined in the foregoing
paragraph (b) or (B) rent such lots to any tenant at the prevailing commercial
rate in Senegal and (ii) apply to such tenants the management and water charges
referred to in paragraph II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(f)   deduct, as the case may be, from the amounts paid by lot purchasers,
SONEPI, other purchasers and tenants pursuant to the foregoing paragraphs (b)
and (e) of this Section, respectively:


﻿6
(i)         the management and water charges refeired to in paragraph II
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(ii)        the operating cost of the associations cooperatives d'habitat; and
(iii)       the contribution, if any, made by OHLM, after the approval
of the Association, to the respective fonds de r9serve of the
associations cooperatives d 'habitat;
and, thereafter, deposit the balance of such amounts in the parcelles assainies
investment fund; and
(g)   not use the funds accumulated in the parcelles assainies investment
fund, during the disbursement period of the Credit, without the prior approval
of the Association.
Section 2.08. OHLM shall establish, in agreement with the Borrower, the
model sales contract.
Section 2.09. OHLM shall establish, in agreement with the Borrower, the
model Statuts.
Section 2.10. OHLM    shall not permit the lots to be used for any other
purpose than the purpose of the Project.
Section 2.11. OHLM shall, at all times, enforce its rights under any of the
sales contracts referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this Agreement and
shall not give its consent to the amendment or waiver of any of the lot purchasers'
obligations under any such sales contract, in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.12. OHLM shall select the lot purchasers in accordance with the
conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, or in accordance with such
other conditions as the Association shall otherwise agree.
Section 2.13. (a) Not later than December 31, 1972, or such other date
as the Association shall otherwise agree, OHLM shall cause its Section d'assistance
aux communautes to complete a study in several quartiers in the city of Dakar
and within several formal and informal groups to survey and determine the attitudes
and opinions of residents of such quartiers and members of such groups in respect
to (i) the community development activities to be undertaken by such Section
d'assistance aux communautes for the purpose of the Project, (ii) the eventual


﻿7
creation of the associations cooperatives d'habitat, (iii) the model sales contract,
(iv) the wishes of such residents or members, and (v) the means required for the
implementation of the Project.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, OHLM shall, within
six months of the date of completion of the study referred to in the foregoing
paragraph, cause its Section d'assistance aux communautis to (i) submit to the
Association for its comments a work program including manpower budget for the
Project, (ii) initiate its operations as described in paragraph I of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement according to the initial timetable shown in paragraph 11 of such
Schedule, (iii) develop in agreement with the Borrower, with the assistance of the
expert referred to in paragraph (b) (iv) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement and
on the basis of the recommendations included in such study, variations to the
model Statuts and make recommendations, with the assistance of such expert,
regarding the extension of credit to lot purchasers, and (iv) thereafter, consult
with the Borrower and the Association regarding (A) the decisions that the Borrower
and OHLM intend to take in respect of such variations and recommendations, and
(B) the means to implement such decisions.
Section 2.14. OHLM shall prepare the detailed engineering under Part C of
the Project or employ as and when needed consultants for such purpose.
Section 2.15. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, OHLM shall, at
all times, be organized as shown in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.16. OHLM shall authorize lot purchasers residing on their lots to
let a part of the structures built on such lots under rules and regulations established
in consultation with the Association and shall, at all times, enforce such rules and
regulations.
Section 2.17. Not later than February 1, 1973 or such other date as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, for the purpose of carrying
out the study referred to in Part G of the Project, employ consultants acceptable
to the Association under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.18. Upon completion of the study referred to in Section 2.17
of this Agreement, OHLM shall, in consultation with the Association, review such
study and, within thirty days from such review, or such other date as the
Association shall otherwise agree, shall, for the purpose of the implementation of
the development plan included in Part H of the Project, employ consultants
acceptable to the Association under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿8
Section 2.19. Not later than October 1, 1973, or such other date as the
Association shall otherwise agree, OHLM shall, after consulting the Association on
the recommendations made by the consultants referred to in Section 2.18 of this
Agreement, begin to implement the pilot community improvement project included
in Part H of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of OHLM
Section 3.01. OHLM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.02. (a) OHLM shall at all times conduct its operations and affairs
under capable and efficient management.
(b)   Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, OHLM shall,
during the implementation of the Project, cause the Direction Parcelles Assainies
to employ technical experts whose qualifications and experience are acceptable
to the Association to fill the positions of (i) a Project manager, (ii) a comptroller,
(iii) a civil engineer, (iv) an expert in savings and credit mechanism, and (v) an
expert in community development, for the purpose of the Project, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   OHLM shall, during the implementation of the Project, assign qualified
and experienced counterparts to the technical experts referred to in the foregoing
paragraph (b).
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, OHLM shall
not undertake or execute, for its own account or for the account of any third
party or parties, any new project which might materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.04. OHLM shall manage its financial situation in such a way as
to not materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.05. OHLM shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and
franchises which are necessary or useful for the purpose of carrying out its
obligations under this Agreement.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. OHLM shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound commercial accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) OHLM shall, at all times, keep the accounts of its Direction
Construction and the Direction Parcelles Assainies separate.
(b)   OHLM    shall: (i) employ independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) have such accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by such
auditors; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) as from the budget
year 1972/73, the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of such divisions and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and OHLM shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and OHLM shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of OHLM and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and OHLM shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. OHLM shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of OHLM and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of OHLM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       in respect of all obligations other than those provided for in
Section 2.15 of this Agreement a date 20 years after the date
of this Agreement and in respect of the obligations provided
for in Section 2.15 of this Agreement a date 6 years after the
(ate of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify OHLM of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other


﻿11
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For OHLM:
Office des Habitations a' Loyer Moder6
B. P. 401
Dakar, S6n6gal
Cable address:
OHLM
Dakar
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of OHLM may be taken or executed by its Directeur Gengral or such other person
or persons as such Directeur Geineral shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. OHLM shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of OHLM, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by OHLM pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Aldewereld
Vice President
OFFICE DES HABITATIONS A LOYER MODERE
By /s / Andr6 J. Coulbary
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    OHLM    shall prequalify all bidders for civil works contracts and for the
submission of prequalification documents shall allow such bidders a period of at
least forty-five days commencing on the date of delivery by OHLM of
prequalification invitations to local representatives of member countries of the Bank
and Switzerland or on the date of publication of prequalification notices, whichever
is later.
2.    OHLM    shall, before inviting bidders to prequalify, inform the Association
in detail of the prequalification procedure bidders are to follow and shall introduce
such modifications in such procedure as the Association may reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall
be furnished by OHLM to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified and OHLM shall make such additions to or deletions from such list
as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.    The civil works for site preparation, infrastructure and construction of social
services facilities shall be executed over a four-year period involving four tranches
of development in the Project Area of Dakar and in two tranches in the Project
Area of Thies. Detailed engineering shall be completed ahead of the commencement
date for the construction of each of the two tranches in the Project Area of Dakar
and each tranche in the Project Area of Thies. After completion of the first two
tranches in the Project Area of Dakar and first tranche in the Project Area of
Thies, the same contractors might continue with the next two tranches in the
Project Area of Dakar and the second tranche in the Project Area of Thies for
which detailed engineering will be available at a later date provided that they accept
the same basic unit prices with a standard escalation clause.
4.    The works to be executed in each of the two tranches in the Project Area
of Dakar and each tranche in the Project Area of Thies shall be divided into several
separate contracts such as (i) site preparations and road construction, (ii)
construction of the water distribution net work, (iii) construction of the power
network, (iv) construction of sanitary facilities, (v) schools construction, and (vi)
health clinic construction in such a way as to best suit the capacity of local
contractors. However, bids for the total works under each of the two tranches
in the Project Area of Dakar and each tranche in the Project Area of Thies shall
be received on the same date, enabling foreign and/or groups of local contractors


﻿14
to bid for the whole work or part of it. The division of the work into separate
contracts shall be agreed upon between OHLM and the Association.
5.    Before bids are invited, OHLM   shall furnish to the Association for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
6.    Registration in Senegal of foreign firms shall not be required as a condition
of bidding. Where such registration is required of such bidder after the award of
contract to him, OHLM shall take all necessary actions to facilitate his registration.
At least sixty days shall be allowed for the submission of the bids from prequalified
contractors. Bids shall be accompanied by a bid bond or guarantee amounting to
2% of the bid amount and valid for a period of two months.
7.    The following requirements shall be included in the bidding documents:
(a)   Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, that the successful bidder
shall be required to provide OHLM with a performance bond or a
guarantee amounting to 5% of the contract price which shall remain
in effect until works specified in the contract are completed and
accepted.
(b)   That the contract with the successful bidder shall provide for: retention
by OHLM of 10% of each payment until the amount thereof totals
at least 5% of the contract price, one-half of which shall be released
when all work has been substantially completed; and the other half
six months after the work has been accepted by OHLM, the six months
being the warranty period during which the contractor remains
responsible for defects in the works, due to bad workmanship.
(c)   That the contract shall include standard escalation clause.
8.    After bids have been received and evaluated, OHLM shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract, submit to the Association the evaluation
papers and obtain the Association's approval for the award. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Association


﻿15
procedure set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly
inform OHLM, and state the reasons for such determination.
9.    The terms and conditions of the contracts shall not, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked. No change
in any contract which together with any other changes in such contract would
increase the amount of such contracts by 10% or more shall be made without
the agreement of OHLM and the Association.
10.  Two conformed copies of each contract shall be furnished to the Association
after its signature and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contract.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Procedure for Determining the Price
of Lots and the Management and Water Charges
Paragraph I.     Price of Lots
The cost of lots will be calculated on the basis of actually incurred land
development costs for each tranche of the Project. Costs of the following elements
should be included:
Topographical Work
Earthwork
Streets
Public water distribution system
Public sanitation (public lavatories)
Plantations
TOTAL
Engineering (6% of above total)
Management prior to lots sale (5% of above total)
TOTAL        "C"
This will give the total cost "C" for the purpose of a tranche.
On the basis of the plan d'urbanisme de detail and the reglement d'Urbanisme
approved for such tranche, the total net usable land "NUL" area will be calculated
by adding up the net area assigned to the following uses:
lots
schools
health centers


﻿17
general administration
market and other commercial uses
industry
The total net usable land "NUL" as defined above will exclude all open
spaces and circulations.
The total cost "C" will then be divided by the total net usable land surface
"NUL" thus determining a price per m2 of developed land "P".
"C" in CFAF     =     "P" in CFAF/m2
"NUL" in m2
This price "P" will be multiplied by the surface of the lot, i.e:, 150 m2 to obtain
the lot price "LP".
For the lots with private water connections and septic tanks, the actually
incurred costs of these elements will be added to "LP".
Paragraph II.    Management and Water Charges
At the beginning of operations under the Project management charges and,
for lots without private water connection only, water charges will be set at
CFAF 300/month and CFAF 280/month respectively. Then such charges will be
adjusted, as and when needed, to reflect the actually incurred cost of management
and water consumption at the fountains.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Conditions of Eligibility of Lot Purchasers,
for Selection of Lot Purchasers and for Allocation of Lots
Paragraph I.     Conditions of Eligibility of Lot Purchasers
(A)   Lot purchasers in the Project Area of Dakar.
(a)   Income criteria
Such lot purchasers should have a monthly income averaging over a
twelve month period between FCFA 12,000 and FCFA 30,000. When
such lot purchasers want a private water connection and a septic tank,
they should be required to show a monthly income averaging at least
FCFA 20,000 over a twelve month period.
(b)   Other criteria
Such lot purchasers should not be the owners of a house or a site
or tenants of public housing in the Cap-Vert area of Senegal.
(B)   Lot purchasers in the Project Area of Thies.
(a)   Income criteria
Such lot purchasers should have a monthly income averaging over a
twelve month period between FCFA 10,000 and FCFA 30,000.
(b)   Other criteria
Such lot purchasers should not be the owners of a house or a site
or tenants of public housing in Thies.
Paragraph II.    Conditions for Selection of Lot Purchasers and for Allocation
of Lots
Lot purchasers will be selected from those eligible by the use of a
socio-economic point system similar to that used by OHLM for housing, with
preference given to applications of groups of families. Specific lots will be allocated
through the use of a lottery system.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Paragraph I.      Operations of OHLM's Section d'assistance aux communautes
Such Section d'assistance aux communautes will be responsible for the
formulation, administration and implementation of the program of the Borrower's
assistance to the community development activities of lot purchasers.
Program
The activities of the lot purchasers can be divided into two types, core and
ancillary. Core activities are those that are essential to all community units and
should, with the exception of housing construction, begin at the time of the
selection of families to occupy the lots. They include:
(a)   organization of quartier units for decision-making and management;
(b)   establishment of housing cooperative associations;
(c)   organization of manpower for employment in the Project construction;
and
(d)   housing construction.
Ancillary activities would typically be initiated after core activities and after
site occupancy. These activities are voluntary and are to be decided upon by the
individual quartiers' membership. They will vary in type and number among
community units, and may include such activities as construction of community
buildings, namely, assembly halls, mosques, extensions to schools and the building
of garbage bins, training programs in domestic hygiene and refuse disposal,
child-care, sewing, carpentry and other vocational skills, further development of
cooperative organizations like creches, production and consumer co-ops.
Community Structure
In organizing the lot purchasers, the following general guidelines will be
utilized:


﻿20
Guidelines for Community Structure
Approximate             Salient Community
Organization Level             No. Households              Organizations
(no. Lots)
Project Tranche              About 3,500-5,200         Council of chefs
(about 3,500              de quartier
Neighborhood                 500-750 (500)             Committee of chefs
de quartier, parent
associations coopera-
tives d 'habitat,
primary school
Quartier                     100-150 (100)             Chef de quartier
and advisory council,
local associations
coopratives d 'habitat
Cluster                      6-9 (6)                   Informal group
Such Section d 'assistance aux communautes will also be responsible for
coordination and programming the work of the following technical assistance
expertise:
(a)   the building material and construction UNDP expert, or such other
expert employed for the same purpose pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Development
Credit Agreement;
(b)   the community organization and saving and credit experts referred to
in paragraph (b) (iv) and (v) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(c)   the students of the Borrower's Ecole des Travaux Publics;
(d)   the Agents Techniques d'Assainissement of the Borrower's Ministere
de la Sante; and
(e)   other assistance to the community development program which, from
time to time, may prove to be necessary.


﻿21
Paragraph II.     Initial Timetable for OHLM's Section
d'assistance aux communautes operations
Date                                  Activity
August 1972-January 1973                  Organization to initiate the
Project (registration, selec-
tion, preparation of lot pur-
chasers for lot occupancy).
February-July 1973                        Registration and selection
of applicants for the first
tranche of the Project in
the Project Area of Dakar.
June 1973                                 Beginning of preparation of
lot purchasers for occupancy
of lots.
January 1974                              Beginning of assistance to
lot purchasers for occupancy
of lots.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 5
ORGANIZATION CHART OF OHLM
CONSEIL D'ADMINISTRATION
DIRECTEUR GENERAL
DIRECTEUR              COMITE DE                                   DIRECTEUR
PARCELLES ASSAINIES        CONTROLE                                  CONSTRUCTION
E                                    PROGRAMMATION                                        HABITAT RURAL
AFFAIRES JURIDIQUES
& DOMANIALES
ETUDES & CONTROLE
AGENCE COMPTABLE
ADMINIST. GENERALE
VENTE & GESTION
CONTENTIEUX
GENCES  REGIO NAES


