CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 336 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Site and Services Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 336 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Site and Services Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1972, between           REPUBLIC    OF
SENEGAL      (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Borrower and Office des
Habitations d Loyer Moddrd (hereinafter called OHLM) an &tablissement public
d caractdre industriel et commercial existing under the laws of the Borrower and
the Borrower will make available to OHLM the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and OHLM; and
(D)   The Borrower has requested the United Nations Development Program
to assist in the financing of the services of the experts referred to in Part E of
the Project (hereinafter called the UNDP experts);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);


﻿4
(c)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Project
Agreement," after the words "the Development Credit Agreement";
(d)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words ", or the Project
Agreement" after words "the Development Credit Agreement"; and
(e)   The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and OHLM of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Programme National de Parcelles Assainies" means the program
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement;
(c)   "lot purchasers" means the purchasers as determined in paragraph I
of Schedule 3 of the Project Agreement;
(d)   "OHLM Decree" means the Borrower's Decret of January 27, 1967,
fixant les regles d'organisation et de fonctionnement de l'OHLM, as the same has
been amended or completed prior to the date of effectiveness of this Agreement;
(e)   "Building Code Law" means the Borrower's Loi No. 66-49 of
May 27, 1966 abrogeant et remplaVant le Code l'Urbanisme (partie IMgislative);
(f)   "Building Code Decree" means the Borrower's Decret No. 66-1076
of December 31, 1966 portant Code de l'Urbanisme (partie reglementaire);
(g)   "associations cooperatives d'habitat Act" means the Borrower's Loi
No. 66-70 of July 13, 1966, portant Code des obligations Civiles et Commerciales
(Deuxieme Partie - Contrats Spciaux);
(h)   "Direction Parcelles Assainies" means the division to be established
within OHLM pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement;


﻿5
(i)   "OHLM's Directeur Gneral" means the director referred to in Section
3.07 of this Agreement;
(j)   "model Statuts" means the model Statuts referred to in paragraph (g)
of Section 7.01 of this Agreement, as such model Statuts may be amended from
time to time in agreement with the Association;
(k)   "model sales contract" means the model contract referred to in
paragraph (d) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement, as such model sales contract
may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Association;
(1)   "Project Area" means any of the two areas defined in Part A of the
Project;
(in)  "UNDP experts" means the experts referred to in Part E of the Project;
(n)   "SONEPI" means the Soci9te Nationale d'Etudes et de Promotion
Industrielle, a societe d'conomie mixte existing under the laws of the Borrower;
(0)   "parcelles assainies investment fund " means the fund to be established
pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement;
(p)   "lots" means the lots for housing use or commercial and industrial
use referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement;
(q)   "tranche" means any of the tranches of the Project described in Part
A of the Project;
(r)   "p7lan d'urbanisme detaill" and "rglement d'urbanisme" means an
urban plan and an urban regulation to be established for each tranche of the Project
pursuant to Article 3 of the Building Code Law and to Titre II of the Building
Code Decree;
(s)   "FCFA" means francs in the currency of the Borrower;
(t)   "associations cooperatives d'habitat" means any of the associations
coopgratives d'habitat referred to in paragraph (g) of Section 7.01 of this
Agreement;
(u)   "DPH" means the Borrower's Direction de la Promotion Humaine; and
(v)   "IRAM" means Institut de Recherche et d'Applications des n7cthodes


﻿6
de Diveloppement, an international organization whose headquarters are located
in Geneva (Switzerland).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1982 and ending April 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿7
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, E and F of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utilities practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the generality of the
foregoing paragraph (a), the Borrower shall, (i) assign all appropriate personnel
for the purpose of adequately staffing the schools and health centers included in
the Project Areas, respectively, and (ii) unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
cause its DPH to assign the personnel described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
to the OHLM's Section d'assistance aux communautis for the purpose of managing
such Section as described in such Schedule.
(c)   The Borrower shall secure the personnel required to staff the health
centers included in the Project Area of Dakar by (i) relocation of its Ministere
de la SantM personnel currently assigned in the area of Dakar or (ii) by adequate
technical assistance.
(d)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause OHLM to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable OHLM    to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(e)   The Borrower shall take all measures so that (i) the portion of the
funds aind facilities referred to in the foregoing paragraph (d) which have been
used for the purpose of financing Part A (with the exception of land prepared
for th schools, the health centers, the open space and recreation areas, and the
local vehicular and pedestrian roads referred to in Part B of the Project), Part
B (with the exception of the power distribution network, the schools and the
health centers referred to in such Part) and Part C of the Project be contributed
to the existing dotation of OHLM and (ii) the remainder of such funds and facilities
be entrusted to OHLM in its capacity as mandataire of the Borrower.


﻿8
(f)   The Borrower shall make available to OHLM, in advance, on a quarterly
basis, the counterpart funds referred to in the foregoing paragraph (a).
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.03. In the Project Areas, the Borrower shall take, or cause to be
taken, all appropriate measures in order to (i) adequately maintain or repair, as
the case may be, streets, public water fountains, lavatories and the public lighting,
(ii) collect the garbage, and (iii) clean the public open spaces, streets, parks and
other recreation areas.
Section 3.04. If the United Nations Development Program is not in a position
to provide the UNDP experts, the Borrower shall employ other experts acceptable
to the Association for the same purpose, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, after studying the report and
recommendations of the UNDP experts, or such other experts referred to in Section
3.04 of this Agreement, consult with the Association regarding (i) the decisions
that it intends to take in the light of such recommendations and (ii) the means
to implement such decisions.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all appropriate measures so that an
adequate public transportation service be put into operation between the center
of the city of Dakar and the Project Area of Dakar.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, at all times, maintain in the position of
Directeur Ggner'al of OHLM a person whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, at all times, enforce the Building Code
Law and Building Code Decree and shall not take any action to amend, suspend,
abrogate, repeal or waive such Law or Decree, in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Section 3.09. In agreement with OHLM the Borrower shall, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, within six months of the date of completion


﻿9
of the study referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 2.13 of the Project Agreement,
and on the basis of the recommendations included in such study (i) develop, with
the assistance of the expert referred to in paragraph (b) (iv) of Section 3.02 of
the Project Agreement, variations to the model Statuts, (ii) make recommendations,
with the assistance of such expert, regarding the extension of credit to lot
purchasers, and (iii) thereafter, consult with the Association regarding (A) the
decisions that the Borrower and OHLM intend to take in respect of such variations
and recommendations and (B) the means to implement such decisions.
Section 3.10. Prior to commencing each tranche of the Project the Borrower
shall (i) establish and submit for approval to the Association a plan d'urbanisme
de detail and a reglement d'urbanisme (ii), thereafter, enforce for each of such
tranches, such plan and re'glement and (iii) shall not modify such plan and
rdglement without the prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall not dispose of the power distribution
network referred to in Part B of the Project without the approval of the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by OHLM of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of OHLM and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿10
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of OHLM and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by OHLM of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance


﻿11
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and pay,"ble immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   OHLM    shall have failed to perform  any covenant, agreement or
obligation of OHLM under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that OHLM will be able to perform its obligation under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   The OHLM Decree shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability
of OHLM to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of OHLM or for the
suspension of its operations.
(e)   The associations cooperatives d'habitat Act shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
(f)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action which might interfere with the carrying out of the respective
obligations of OHLM and a lot purchaser under a sales contract entered into
between such parties in conformity with the model sales contract.
(g)   The Borrower and OHLM shall have amended the model sales contract
without the approval of the Association.
(h)   The Borrower and OHLM      shall have given their consent to an
amendment to any of the provisions of the Statuts of any of the associations
cooperatives d'habitat established between lot purchasers in conformity with the
model Statuts, in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the
implementation of the Project.


﻿12
(i)   The Borrower and OHLM shall have amended the model Statuts, in
such a way as to materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
(j)   The Borrower shall have amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived, any of the measures referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 7.01 of this
Agreement, in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the implementation
of the Project.
Section 6.03. For the purpose of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and OHLM.
(b)   Any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i) and
(j) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
OHLM shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The Borrower shall have taken all appropriate measures to complete,
to the satisfaction of the Association, the OHLM Decree for the purpose of carrying
out the Programme National de Parcelles Assainies referred to in the Borrower's
Plan de D6veloppement Economique et Social.
(c)   The Borrower shall have taken, to the satisfaction of the Association,
all appropriate measures to issue, for the Project Areas, a rglement de construction
pursuant to the provisions of the Building Code Decree.
(d)   The Borrower shall have established, to the satisfaction of the
Association, in agreement with OHLM, a model sales contract to be used for the
purpose of the Project, satisfactory to the Association, between OHLM and the
lot purchasers.


﻿13
(e)   OHLM    shall have employed the technical experts referred to in
paragraph (b) (i), (iii) and (iv) of Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement.
(f)   OHLM   shall have established to the satisfaction of the Association,
the Direction Parcelles Assainies and the Section d'Assistance aux Communautes
and the Comite de Contr6le referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 2.06 of the
Project Agreement.
(g)   The Borrower shall have established, pursuant to the Credit and Savings
Associations Act, in agreement with OILM, a model Statuts satisfactory to the
Association for the associations cooperatives d'habitat to be set up for the purpose
of carrying out the activities described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(h) The Borrower shall have appointed a Directeur Gnral of OHLM
whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Association.
(i)   OHLM     shall  have  employed   the   auditors  referred  to  in
paragraph (b) (i) of Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement.
(j)   The terms of reference of the study referred to in Part G of the Project
shall have been submitted to and approved by the Association.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, OHLM, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of OHLM in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the measures referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 7.01 of
this Agreement have been duly and validly taken.
(c)   That measures referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 7.01 of this
Agreement, have been duly and validly taken.
(d)   That the respective obligations of OHLM and the lot purchasers set
forth in the model sales contract are valid under the laws of the Borrower.
(e)   That the Direction, Section and Comite referred to in paragraph (f)
of Section 7.01 of this Agreement have been duly and validly established.


﻿14
(f)   That the provisions set forth in the model Statuts are valid under the
laws of the Borrower.
(g) That the OHLM's Directeur G6nral has been duly and validly
appointed.
Section 7.03.   The date March    1, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV
of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g),
(h), (i) and (j) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement and those of paragraphs (a),
(c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i) and (j) of Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Ministre charge des Finances of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist re des Finances et
des Affaires Economiques
Dakar, S6n6gal
Cable address:
Minifinances
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿15
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s / Andr6 J. Coulbary
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Topographical                 5,700,000            67% of total
and Civil Works                                    expenditures
under Parts B and
H of the Project
II.   Services of tech-               705,000            100% of total
nical experts                                      expenditures
and consultants
under Parts C, D,
G and H of the
Project
III.  Unallocated                    1,595,000
TOTAL         8,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "total expenditures" means the
aggregate of (i) expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories, and in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower and
(ii) expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and


﻿17
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in implementing the Programme
National de Parcelles Assainies. It will enable 14,000 and 1,600 lower-income
households and members of the associations coop6ratives d'habitat in Dakar and
in Thies, respectively, to purchase developed lots on which they will build their
houses. Developed lots will also be sold for commercial and industrial purposes.
The Project will also assist the lot purchasers with the economic and social
development of their communities.
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    Provision of land for the purpose of the Project consisting of (i) four tranches
of 100 ha each in Dakar located between 17025' and 17028' west longitude
and (ii) two tranches of 30 ha each in Thies located between 16056' and
16058' west longitude and 14o46' and 14047' north latitude.
B.    Topographical and civil works on the tranches, including inter alia land
preparation, construction of local vehicular and pedestrian roads, construction
of water and power distribution networks, construction of individual septic
tanks in Dakar (up to 2,100), construction of collective sanitary facilities
(16 in Dakar and 2 in Thies), construction of 12 primary schools of 21
classrooms and 4 secondary schools of 12 classrooms in Dakar and 2 primary
schools of 1 5 classrooms in Thies, construction of 4 health centers in Dakar
and I in Thies.
C.    Preparation, by OHLM or by consultants, of detailed engineering for the
several tranches of the Project.
D.    The provision of the services of 5 technical experts.
E.    The provision of the services of 2 UNDP experts for the purpose of assisting
the Borrower in formulating a national housing policy and related investment
programs and developing designs, building techniques and material supply
systems conducive to lower housing construction costs.
F.    The construction, in Dakar and Thies, of primary street, water and power
networks necessary to connect the Project Areas with the existing networks
in the cities of Dakar and Thies, respectively.


﻿19
G.    Study to be undertaken by consultants for the purpose of developing criteria
to assist the Borrower to determine which squatter settlements should be
improved in situ and which ones should be eradicated.
H.    Preparation by consultants of a development plan including detailed
engineering and implementation of a program for a pilot community
improvement project of about 10 ha in either of the squatter settlements
of Colobane or Fass in the area of Dakar.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
DPH Personnel Assigned to OHLM's
Section d'Assistance aux Communaut6s
1.   A Chief Community Development Officer to act as chief of such Section
d'assistance aux communautes; and
2.    Three Community Organizers.
This staff will work in such Section d'assistance aux communautMs on a
full-time basis, and will be assisted by one IRAM technical assistance expert on
approximately a half-time basis until replaced by the expert referred to in
paragraph (b) (v) of Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement. Not later than
December 31, 1972, this staff will be augmented by one Deputy Community
Development Officer and by three to seven additional Community Organizers (at
least one of these Community Organizers will be headquartered in the Thies office
of OHLM). During the implementation of the Project, additional community
organizers will be provided, as and when needed, for the purpose of carrying on
the tasks of such Section d'assistance aux communautes.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Activities for the Associations Coopdratives d'Habitat
1.    Contributing to the execution of the Project by regularly collecting payments
to be made by lot purchasers pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 2.07
of the Project Agreement.
2.    Acting as saving mechanism for lot purchasers and deposit such savings with
official banking institutions.
3.    Undertaking any other activities that could be, from time to time, determined
by lot purchasers, such as extending credit to lot purchasers.


