Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICUIL USE ONLY
Report No. 14330
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2257-PH)
APRIL 13, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =     Philippine Pesos (P)
US$1.00       =     P9 (1980)
n         =     P 16 (1984)
i"    P 27 (1993)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)     =      3.28 feet (ft)
i kilometer (kim)    =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)    =     10,000 square meters (sq m) or 2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT         =  Average Annual Daily Traffic
CEO          =  City Engineers Office
CPO          =  City Project Office
DBM          =  Department of Budget and Management
DILG         =  Department of Interior and Local Governments
DOF          =  Department of Finance
DPWH         =  Department of Public Works and Highways
DTI          =  Department of Trade and Industry
LWUA         =  Local Water Utilities Administration
MHS          =  Ministry of Human Settlements
MDP I        =  Municipal Development Project (Ln. 2435-PH) (PREMIUMED)
MDP II       =  Second Municipal Development Project (Ln. 3146-PH) (MMINUTE)
NEDA         =  National Economic and Development Authority
NHA          =  National Housing Authority
NPV          =  Net Present Value
O&M          =  Operation and Maintenance
PSC          =  Project Steering Committee
RCDP         =  Regional Cities Development Project
RCDPO        =  Regional Cities Development Project Office
SAR          =  Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 13, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECIORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on the Philippines
Regional Cities Development Proiect (Loan 2257-PH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Philippines - Regional Cities Development
Project (Loan 2257-PH) prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office. The Borrower prepared Part n1.
The Regional Cities Development Project (RCDP) was the Bank's first major urban project in the
Philippines outside Metro Manila. It cost a great deal to develop: $11.87 million financed by other loans
(not including the 6 staffyears under RCDP's account), about 17 percent of the final project cost. The
loan was designed to foster economic decentralization and regional growth in four project cities through
the reduction of infrastructure bottlenecks, and the strengthening of municipal capacity to finance,
construct, operate and maintain urban infrastructure. Additional goals centered on strengthening the
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) and the National Housing Authority's (NHA).
Economic and political volatility during the implementation period was impossible to anticipate
and hindered implementation. Additionally, project design did not adequately reflect the diversity of local
institutions and the evolving investment priorities. Project activities ultimately did little to strengthen
administrative capacity, and the municipalities proved unwilling to raise fees to the level required for full
cost recovery. With one exception, the cities have not raised tariffs sufficiently to make investments in
municipal enterprises self-liquidating.
The road and drainage subcomponents will reduce bottlenecks, the shelter components will provide
needed urban amenities in many neighborhoods, and the markets and municipal enterprises will increase
the availability and quality of food and consumer products while increasing municipal income. The
project generated useful lessons regarding cooperation between central and local government. These have
been incorporated into follow-on urban projects.
The PCR provides a concise and adequate account of project experience and achievements. The
project outcome is rated as satisfactory. However, its sustainability is rated as unlikely, given the
negligible progress achieved in cost recovery. The institutional development is rated as modest. An audit
is planned which will analyze the environmental impacts of project interventions.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents my not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Dank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CMES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2257-PH)
Table of Contents
Preface    .......................................... .i
Evaluation Summary .ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity.                                                1
Background .1
Project Objectives and Description.                              2
Project Design and Organization.                                 3
Project Implementation.                                          7
Project Results .10
Project Sustainability .13
Bank Performance .13
Borrower Performance .13
Consulting Services .14
PART II.      PROJECT REVIEW FORM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Synopsis .16
PART III.     STATISTICAL INFORMATION: TABLES
Table 1: Related Bank Loans  ........        ..............  22
Table 2: Project Timetable ..........       ..............  23
Table 3: Loan Disbursements ........         .............. 24
Table 4: Project Implementation
A. RCDP Overall Physical S-Curve .....       ....... 25
B. RCDP Overall Financial S-Curve  ....      ....... 26
Table 5: Project Costs ............................  27
Table Sb: Project Financing ..........      ..............  28
Table 6a: Direct Results . .........................  29
Table 6b: Direct Benefits  ...........      ..............  30
Table 6c: Direct Benefits  ............      .............  31
Table 6d: Technical Assistance & Training  .....     ......... 32
Table 7: Bank Staff Inputs (Staffweeks) ......     .......... 33
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources (Missions)  .....      ........ 34
Annex 1:      Financial Analysis of Selected Sub-projects .....    ......... 37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2257-PH)
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) summarizes the implementation of the Regional Cities
Development Project (RCDP), for which Loan 2257-PH in the amount of US$67 million was approved
on March 31, 1983. There were four cancellations during the implementation of the Project: US$20
million was canceled on November 4, 1986; US$4.92 million was canceled on October 23, 1989;
US$2.64 million was canceled on July 29, 1991; and a cancellation of US$3.52 million occurred at the
time of the final loan account closing. A total of US$35.92 million was disbursed under the loan, with
the last disbursement made on August 14, 1992. The Loan Closing Date, originally December 31, 1989,
was extended three times. The first two extensions were for one year each and the third extension was
for three months; the final Closing Date was March 31, 1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of Country Department
I of the East Asia and Pacific Region (EA 1IN) and the Borrower, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, the Borrower's own records,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.
The Borrower produced two Project Completion Reports; one for the Shelter Component and
one for the overall project. Part II is a synopsis of their findings.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2257-PH)
Evaluation Summary
Objectives
The objectives of the Regional Cities Development Project (RCDP) were as follows:
(a)   Stimulate economic decentralization and regional growth in the four project cities through
reduction of infrastructure bottlenecks;
(b)   Assist the cities in strengthening municipal institutions, particularly in finance,
implementation, and in operation and maintenance of urban facilities;
(c)   Strengthen further Department of Public Works' and Highways (DPWH) and National
Housing Authority's (NHA) administrative abilities in providing municipal infrastructure
and shelter respectively; and
(d)   Improve basic social services including shelter, public health, safety, and urban mobility
with particular emphasis on the needs of the urban poor.
Implementation Experience
The project was state-of-the-art for its time -- complex with multiple objectives, components,
implementing agencies and arrangements. It was also the Bank's first major urban project in the
Philippines outside Metro Manila. Further, significant economic and political events took place during
the implementation period which were impossible to anticipate. These factors necessarily led to a mixed
implementation experience, providing lessons which have been incorporated into follow-on urban projects.
Results
Overall, the Project achieved its objectives of: (i) relieving infrastructure bottlenecks and
contributing to the growth of the project cities; (ii) assisting the cities to strengthen municipal institutions,
particularly in project planning preparation and implementation; (iii) strengthening DPWH's
administrative capacity to provide municipal infrastructure; and (iv) improving the basic social services
including shelter (in reduced scope), public health, safety, and urban mobility with particular emphasis
on the needs of the urban poor.
The cooperation between NHA and local government units, the arrangements of which were
changed during implementation, has provided useful lessons, although cannot be characterized as having
strengthened administrative capacity.



- iii -
Sustainability/Remaining Issues
The project's sustainability, apart from the road and drainage subcomponents, is unlikely. The
cities have not, with one exception, raised tariffs to make investments in municipal enterprises self-
liquidating. It is unclear that there is sufficient maintenance of the investments. Further, the financial
and economic results of the shelter component do not suggest replicability.
The CPO staff, organized in independent units in each local government, gained useful expertise
and experience during project preparation and implementation which has enhanced the cities' institutional
capacities, especially in Davao and Bacolod, where CPO staff were absorbed into the mainstream city
administration. With the passage of the Local Government Code in 1991, local governments are taking
more responsibility and are receiving greater resources. Ex-CPO staff have proven useful, for example,
in conducting competitive bidding which, previously, had not usually been carried out at the local level,
except in Bank projects. The mainstream city governments in Cagayan de Oro and Iloilo did not absorb
their respective CPOs, and as a result, did not gain as much from transfer of technology and technical
capacity build-up. These cities could have benefitted more if the project was implemented in closer
conjunction with the mainstream city government units.
Findings and Lessons Learned
A tremendous amount of Bank resources were applied to the development of RCDP: $0.5 million
under Loan 1647-PH; $4.6 million under Loan 1821-PH; and $6.77 million under Loan 2067-PH.1 This
$11.87 million preparation cost financed by other loans, not including the 312 staffweeks (6 staffyears)
under RCDP's account, amounted to just under 17 percent of the final project cost - a very high ratio
notwithstanding that RCDP was expected to be a larger project at the outset. These high development
costs are related to the top-down nature of the project, with the national government and its consultants
taking the lead in project identification and preparation.
This design approach had other disadvantages. Pre-selection of the four regional cities by the
national government led the cities to consider the funds an entitlement. With no alternative outlet for the
funds, it became difficult to implement pricing policy changes, such as market tariff increases, especially
in the face of local councils' political opposition. The top-down approach was discarded in follow-on
Bank loans which provided that any qualified city can borrow, thus creating competition for funds, which
results in greater leverage for fiscal reform. The political lessons of RCDP have also been learned, and
follow-on loans have incorporated mechanisms to create political consensus for sub-projects and their
related fiscal reforms.
The project also proved too complex and large relative to the administrative and financial
capability of the four selected local governments. During appraisal, this was identified as a risk that
could be offset with technical and managerial assistance from national agencies such as NEDA, DPWH
and NHA. This assumption, however, overestimated the capacity of the national agencies to create an
immediate impact on institutional and financial capacity of the local govermments and may have been too
optimistic even under normal political and economic conditions. As it turned out, changes in city
administrations during implementation resulted in delays caused by the need to make minor modifications
1. PCR - Philip2ines: Urban Engineering Proiect (Ln. 2067-PH), Report number 7009, November 16, 1987.



- iv -
to the project scope to allow new administrations to take "ownership" of projects started under previous
regimes.
Finally, the project design did not fully take into consideration the fluidity of politics at the local
level and the rapid changes that could take place within cities. Investment priorities change with time.
While adjustments were made during project implementation, the project design proved to be somewhat
rigid. In retrospect, the project could have benefitted from an approach placing more emphasis on
developing the investment planning capabilities within the project cities, developing multi-year capital
plans and budgets, and providing more flexibility in identifying and funding investments in the outer
years.






PROJECT COMPLEI1ON REPORT
THE PHILPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2257-PH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
PXiect Identity
Project Name:       Regional Cities Development Project
Loan No.:           2257-PH
RVP Unit:           EAIIN
Country:            Philippines
Sector:             Urban
BkackQund
1.     The urban population in the Philippines more than doubled between 1960 and 1980, increasing
at an average annual rate of 3.6% as compared to 2.7% for the total national population. Approximately
one-third of the families in the urban areas were estimated to have incomes below the absolute poverty
level. In most of the urban areas, supply has not kept pace with the expansion in demand for water
supply, roads and other urban infrastructure and for solid waste management, public markets and other
municipal infrastructure. A shortage of qualified professional/managerial staff and insufficient levels of
locally generated revenues constrained the cities and municipalities from improving delivery infrastructure
and services. National government agencies, such as the Local Water Utilities Administration and the
National Housing Authority, were established in the 1970's to provide some of the essential services.
2.     The Government considered that the intermediate and smaller urban areas and their needs for
infrastructure and industry were being neglected in national policy, leading to disparities in economic
opportunity and contributing to delayed development of outlying areas. The Government placed greater
emphasis on regional development and a more equitable distribution of central government resources
nationwide.
3.     The Bank had been assisting the Govermnent meet the challenges of urbanization since the 1970's
through a series of projects which evolved from an initial emphasis on shelter to include a wide range
of municipal/urban services. The First Urban Project (1272-TW and 1282-PH, 1976) financed the
upgrading of the country's largest slum, the Tondo in Manila, and traffic management and road
investments in Manila. The Second Urban Project (1657-PH, 1978) supported sites and service
development in Metro Manila and three regional cities. The Third Urban Project (1821-PH, 1980)
addressed the provision of shelter, sanitation and other basic needs and productivity growth of the low
income families in Metro Manila. The Fourth Urban Project, the Regional Cities Development Project,
expanded the approach to include a wide range of urban infrastructure and municipal management in
addition to shelter.



- 2 -
Project Objectives and Description
4.      The objectives of the Regional Cities Development Project were as follows:
(a)    Stimulate economic decentralization and regional growth in the four project cities through
reduction of infrastructure bottlenecks;
(b)    Assist the cities in strengthening municipal institutions, particularly in finance,
implementation, and in operation and maintenance of urban facilities;
(c)    Strengthen further Department of Public Works' and Highways (DPWH) and National
Housing Authority's (NHA) administrative abilities in providing municipal infrastructure
and shelter respectively; and
(d)   Improve basic social services including shelter, public health, safety, and urban mobility
with particular emphasis on the needs of the urban poor.
5.      The project was comprised of the following components in four project cities, Bacolod, Cagayan
de Oro, Davao and Iloilo 2:
(a)    Urban Transportation. Provision of: (i) approximately 9 km of new streets, 32 km of
upgraded or rehabilitated existing streets, and limited traffic engineering measures; and
(ii) improved road maintenance capability, including a new maintenance depot in Davao,
and the upgrading of existing depots, vehicles, plants, equipment and tools in other
project cities.
(b)    Sanitation and DrainaLe. Provision of: (i) solid wastes management measures, including
new dumpsites, vehicles and equipment; (ii) improved sanitation measures, including
equipment and civil works (Iloilo and Bacolod); and (iii) drainage works, comprising
around 36 km of open or closed storm drains, including laterals, and related maintenance
equipment.
(c)    Municipal Enterprises. Provision of: (i) six new markets and 10 rehabilitated markets;
(ii) two new slaughterhouses; and (iii) two new bus terminals.
(d)    Shelt. Provision of:  (i) sites and services at nine sites in the four cities with an
estimated total of 9,580 residential plots, benefitting 78,000 persons including grant of
tenure and infrastructure, sanitary, health education and community facilities; (ii) around
660 serviced commercial/industrial plots generating employment for an estimated 6,500
people; (iii) slum upgrading - roughly 6,900 plots serving over 55,000 people in ten
different slum areas in the four cities, including grant of tenure, improved infrastructure
and sanitary facilities; and (iv) loans for building materials for residential structures.
2.   These cities had populations ranging from 180,000 to 420,000 and were selected for considerable 'take-off' potential
as key regional centers.



- 3 -
(e)   Livelihood Zone Pilot Project. Provision of a mini-industrial estate in Davao, totalling
about 5 has. of developed land with serviced industrial plots, standard factory buildings
and necessary off-site infrastructure, to generate employment for an estimated 1,200
people.
(f)   Technical Assistance. TA would be provided to: (i) DPWH, the National Economic
Development Authority (NEDA), NHA and the project cities for assistance in project
implementation; (ii) the Department of Finance (DOF), the Department of the Interior
and Local Government (DILG), and the cities for institutional strengthening and training;
and (iii) DPWH, the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) and NEDA for future
project preparation and related studies.
6.     The total project cost was estimated at US$114.1 million at appraisal. A Bank loan of US$67.0
million was approved in March, 1983. The project was to have been implemented over a five year period
from January 1984, to December 1988.
7.     The main implementing agencies were: (a) the project cities for the urban municipal enterprises;
(b) DPWH (and the cities under DPWH guidance) for urban transport, sanitation and drainage; and (c)
NHA for shelter. A Project Steering Committee (PSC), consisting of the agencies involved in the project
with NEDA as the chairman, was established as the overall policy making body. Overall project
management responsibilities were vested in a Regional Cities Development Project Office (RCDPO), with
the director provided by NEDA and the deputy director provided by DPWH. City Project Offices
(CPOs) were established in each city to handle project administration at the local level.
8.     The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified the project risks as: (a) the managerial capacity of
the city governments to implement a large and complex project; (b) the inability of the project cities to
increase general revenues promptly and to implement satisfactory cost recovery measures on project
generated revenue generating components; and (c) possible delays due to land acquisition problems. The
involvement of the national government agencies, DPWH and NHA and the establishment of the CPOs
were expected to lessen the risk of managerial capacity at the city level. Monitoring by the DOF of city
fiscal performance was expected to address the second risk. Land purchase negotiations were started
early to minimize delays from land acquisition.
Project Design and Organization
9.     The project was conceptualized to address the need to develop effective counter-magnets or
alternatives to Metro Manila where there was a disproportionate concentration of economic activity vis-a-
vis the rest of the country, resulting in rapid population growth, congestion and serious pressures on
public services and infrastructure. The conceptualization and subsequent development and implementation
of the project proved appropriate and timely to meet the demands for regional growth and economic
decentralization in the late 1970's and early 1980's.
10.    The Bank had already been involved in urban development projects in the Philippines starting
with Urban I - a slum upgrading project in Metro Manila; Urban II - also a shelter project in Metro
Manila and pilot projects in some regional cities and Urban III - a shelter and basic infrastructure package
likewise in Metro Manila. Except for limited investments in shelter in some regional cities, the Bank's
previous urban development projects in the Philippines were heavily concentrated in Metro Manila and
were basically focused on shelter. The RCDP or Urban IV project thus became the first multi-sectoral



urban development project of the Bank which coincidentally was also its first major urban project outside
of Metro Manila.
11.    To achieve its objectives, the project adopted a comprehensive integrated urban development
approach which covered a range of sectoral projects addressing varied urban needs. The project consisted
of four basic components: (a) municipal infrastructure -national and local roads and bridges, motorpools,
traffic management, street lighting, main and lateral drainage, sanitation, solid waste management, shore
protection and community facilities; (b) municipal enterprises - markets, slaughterhouses and bus
terminals; (c) Shelter. - sites and services and slum upgrading; and (d) technical assistance - training.
12.    The government selected the project sites primarily because of their economic  potentials,
availability of skilled and trainable labor force, presence of potential employment generating projects and
urban population size. The DPWH initially took the lead in project formulation, identifying and
preparing individual investments with support from consultants funded through other Bank projects and
in coordination with the respective city governments.
13.    The lead agency for the project was NEDA, which headed a Project Steering Committee, the
policy-making body for the project composed of ranking officials from the Ministry of Human Settlements
(MHS), DILG, DPWH, DTI, DBM, DOF and NHA. An RCDP office was created to handle overall
project management, headed by a Project Director assigned from NEDA and an Assistant Director from
DPWH. An RCDP Technical Committee composed of senior technical staff from the participating
agencies assisted the RCDPO in coordinating the technical aspects of project implementation.
14.    At the city level, City Project Offices headed by a City Project Managers, were created and were
responsible for day-to-day administrative matters including project programming and budgeting, land
acquisition and monitoring the progress of the project. Inter-agency Project Action Committees headed
by the Mayor were created and served as the coordinating body at the local level. The shelter component
in the project cities was initially implemented under a joint venture arrangement between the NHA and
the project sites. Officers were organized in each of the project cities (in the case of Davao, Cagayan
de Oro and Bacolod from existing shelter project staff) and integrated with the CPOs. Each head of a
shelter office/unit was city-hired. NHA provided counterpart senior technical staff which assisted the
local teams in planning, design, land acquisition, construction, supervision estate and financial
management. This however was modified in 1987 when NHA assumed full responsibility over the shelter
component. NHA absorbed all the locally hired staff. Supervision of municipal infrastructure projects
were handled by the City Project Engineering Office essentially comprised of City Engineer's Office staff
supported by DPWH staff. These CPEOs were coordinated by the RCDP Project Management Office
in Manila headed by a Director For Engineering supported by DPWH.
15.    Both national and local components of municipal infrastructure were implemented by the DPWH,
the loan proceeds (45% of civil works cost) and the Peso counterpart funding (55% of civil works cost)
were released to DPWH as budgetary appropriations. DPWH shouldered the entire cost of national
infrastructure components including the loan portion and were not recoverable from the project cities.
DPWH also front-ended the full cost of the local infrastructure components but recovered from the project
cities through the Municipal Development Fund. The loan portion (45% of civil works cost) was relent
to the project cities initially at an annual interest rate of 13.5% then scaled down to 1 1 % per annum (in
line with the reduction in the Bank's variable lending rate) while the counterpart funding portion (55%
of civil works cost) was made available to the project cities as interest free loans. For equipment
provided under the project, the loan proceeds were relent by the national government to the project cities



at the same interest rates charged, for municipal infrastructure to finance 100% of the cost of equipment
procured through CIF or ex-factory and 65% for equipment acquired through local procurement. The
35% counterpart funding requirement for local procurement was financed through local government
funds.
16.    The loan proceeds representing 70% of civil works costs for municipal enterprise components
were relent by the national government to the project cities at the same interest rates mentioned in
paragraph 15. Counterpart funding of 30% were financed through local government funds.
17.    Initially, shelter projects were implemented under a joint venture arrangement between the
project cities and NHA on a 60-40 sharing basis. The loan was made available by the national
government to NHA which in turn relent it to the project cities. NHA provided the counterpart funding
requirements from its corporate equity. However in 1987, NHA assumed full responsibility for the
financing and implementation of the shelter component including the loan. Eventually, 70% of the total
cost for shelter was financed from the loan proceeds and the remaining 30% was funded through
budgetary appropriations as NHA's corporate equity.
18.    The costs for technical assistance and training were totally financed from the loan proceeds which
were released to the agencies as budgetary appropriations.
19.    While the project in general was timely and appropriate there were key aspects of the project that
affected its efficiency during implementation. In retrospect, the project proved too complex and too large
relative to the administrative and financial capability of local governments. During appraisal, this was
identified as a potential risk that could be offset with technical and managerial assistance from national
agencies such as NEDA, DPWH and NHA. This assumption, however, overestimated, on the one hand,
the capacity of the national agencies to create an immediate impact on institutional and financial capacity
of local governments and, on the other hand, the ability of local governments to improve their respective
capacities much beyond their past level of experience and expertise within such a short period of time.
Lastly, the project failed to fully recognize the impact of politics on the project which turned out to be
a major cause of delay and in the case of Iloilo City led to its eventual withdrawal from the project.
20.    The assumptions during preparation may have been too optimistic even under normal political
and economic conditions. Land acquisition, for one, took much longer than was originally estimated.
The tedious processes involved were not completely identified and potential problems not fully anticipated
vis-a-vis the time frame for implementation. The land acquisition problems substantially affected the time
schedules of their activities resulting in considerable slippage in detailed engineering work, bidding and
awards of contracts and actual construction. As schedules slipped, other factors came into play such as
increase in costs. In many cases, the problem in land acquisition resulted in site replacement and/or
design alterations further delaying the project timetable.
21.    The project was identified, packaged and prepared primarily by national agencies and their
respective consultants in a top-down approach to project development. The project was ambitious in that
it attempted to address, in a very short period of time, a wide range of infrastructure and service
deficiencies reflecting many years of under-investment. The project took 312 staffweeks (6 staffyears)
to prepare, and the cost of supervision over the nine-year implementation period came to over 171
staffweeks.



- 6 -
22.    Local government ownership of the project was a key concern. City Project Offices were created
in each city and the cities were included as members of the Project Steering Committee. However, the
project experienced several changes in city administration between the start of project preparation and
implementation. Some new mayors found it difficult to immediately embrace projects which were being
carried out by the previous regime which they actively opposed. The mayors were not necessarily
opposed to the investment per se and agreed to continue with the project after some minor changes were
made to the project scope so that they could claim ownership. The merits of the investments were never
challenged. The decision of the Iloilo City Council to drop the project reflected their dispute with the
mayor rather than their opposition to the project.
23.    The institutional arrangement for project implementation proved to be too complex involving
numerous agencies at various government levels - national, regional and local. Land acquisition alone
involved four agencies other than the main implementing agencies - Housing and Land Use Regulatory
Board (HLURB), the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR), the Bureau of Lands and the Land
Registration Authority. Moreover, the agency chosen to lead a primarily infrastructure implementation
project was NEDA, a planning agency with limited infrastructure implementation experience and political
clout at the local level.
24.    The CPO staff, organized in independent units in each local government, gained useful expertise
and experience during project preparation and implementation which has enhanced the cities' institutional
capacities, especially in Davao and Bacolod, where CPO staff were absorbed into the mainstream city
administration. With the passage of the Local Government Code in 1991, local governments are being
asked to take more responsibility and are receiving more resources. Ex-CPO staff have proven useful,
for example, in conducting competitive bidding which usually had not been carried out at the local level,
except in Bank projects. The mainstream city governments in Cagayan de Oro and Iloilo did not reabsorb
their respective CPOs, and as a result, did not gain as much from transfer of technology and technical
capacity build-up. These cities could have benefitted more if the project was implemented in closer
conjunction with the main city government units.
NHA
25.    The initial joint venture arrangement between NHA and the local governments proved to be
tenuous. The project failed to acknowledge the disparity in organizational and political cultures between
NHA and local governments. NHA already had difficulty in dealing with local governments in Urban
II and Urban III shelter projects and these experiences could have been enough reason to doubt the
propriety and viability of the NHA/local government joint venture arrangements. Furthermore, NHA
was a highly centralized institution, where power and authority rested solely with top management.
Under the joint venture arrangement, NHA had to adjust to the new orientation, culture, and pace of local
governments particularly in sharing decision-making responsibilities -- a role to which NHA was not
accustomed.
26.    The centralized institutional arrangement impeded the flow of activities of a primarily
decentralized project. Decision making was not properly delegated to an extent that decisions on minor
design changes even had to be referred to Manila for approval.
27.    Lastly, succeeding projects should only include sites which have already been acquired by the
proponents. Access to utility services for these sites should also be resolved prior to appraisal to avoid



- 7 -
drawn-out negotiations with utility companies during project implementation which unnecessarily delay
project completion.
Project Implementation
28.    The loan was signed in June 1983, became effective in February 1984 and after three extensions,
closed in March 1992, over two years after the original closing date of December 31, 1989. The loan
did not become effective immediately due to the delay in the issuance by the Department of Justice of the
Legal Opinion on the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the GOP and the four RCDP cities. This
delay stemmed from a provision of the government's Foreign Borrower's Act which required that an
intermediary bank acceptable to government be used as a conduit for transmitting the proceeds of foreign
borrowing to local government units. To resolve this problem, it was decided to utilize the Municipal
Development Fund which was established under The Municipal Development Project (Ln. 2435-PH) in
the Department of Finance to manage loan funds and channel loan proceeds to local governments and
other government agencies.  It eventually became the mechanism for loan repayment of local
governments.
29.    The project was implemented during an extraordinary period of political turbulence and economic
recession in the Philippines which could not have been foreseen at appraisal. The assassination of the
leading opposition figure in August 1983 triggered a chain of political and economic events which
precipitated a deep recession in 1984 and 1985 and culminated in the EDSA People's Revolution in 1986
which brought an end to the twenty-year Marcos government.
30.    The succeeding years were marked by constant flux and adjustments in the political sphere and
in the government bureaucracy. Government projects slowed down as the new administration reviewed
existing programs in the light of its new priorities and the prevailing economic and fiscal conditions.
Elected local government officials were replaced by national government appointed Officers-in-Charge
(OICs), many of whom were averse to continuing projects like RCDP initiated by their predecessors
and/or insisted in putting their own mark on the project. New city official agreed to continue with the
project after some adjustments in project components but implementation was delayed. Local elections
were held in 1988 which resulted in further turn over of mayors in two of the project cities. Each change
in the local governments had a disruptive effect on the RCDP since project staff were changed or had to
establish their credibility with each new administration. Cagayan de Oro faced the least disruption as a
protege of the previous mayor was appointed as OIC in 1986, won election in 1988 and re-election in
1992.
31.    The Philippine economy was gripped by a recession in 1984 and 1985 when GOP dropped to -
7% per annum, inflation rose to 53.3% in 1984 and 17.6% in 1985, and the Philippine Peso devalued
to P16 to US$1 in 1984 eventually plummeting down to P27 to US$1 in 1991. The exchange rate during
appraisal was P9 to US$1.
32.    The increase in domestic inflation resulted in an increase in project costs and aggravated the
problems of counterpart funding for the national government and the project cities.
33.    The devaluation of the Philippine Peso against the US Dollar also had a significant effect on the
Project. Bank procedures at the time of appraisal in 1982 did not require adjustments to be made for
possible currency fluctuations, so total project costs in US Dollars and the loan amount were determined
assuming that the US Dollar would equal P9 compared to the actual rate after the Peso's eventual fall to



- 8 -
P27 to the Dollar. Since civil works have mainly indirect foreign exchange requirements, the devaluation
resulted in more Pesos being available from the loan for local capital expenditures.
34.    The RCDPO, DPWH, NHA and the four project cities conducted a major review of the Project
in 1986 in the light of the prevailing political and economic conditions, acknowledging that it would be
difficult to complete the Project as appraised by the end of 1988. Project components were reviewed in
relation to the following factors: (i) cost of project components; (ii) availability of counterpart funds; (iii)
economic/financial viability of project components; (iv) affordability; (v) debt service capacity of the
cities; (vi) interdependence of project components (one component might be significantly less viable
without the others, or might be less urgent with another component implemented), and; (vii) need for the
project component (in light of improvements undertaken since appraisal).
35.    The projects were then categorized into first and second priority projects. First priority projects
were those which could be completed by 1988 and second priority projects were those which would only
be implemented if funds could be secured and contracts had been committed for all first priority projects.
36.    The review was completed in June 1986 resulting in the restructuring of the Project and the
cancellation of US$20 million from the original loan amount of US$67 million. There were subsequent
requests for adjustments in project components as priorities at the project cities changed. The RCDPO
and the Bank reviewed each request on a case-by-case basis accommodating those which were consistent
with project objectives and were fully justified.
37.    In July 1988, when it was apparent that the first priority projects could not be completed by end
of 1988, extension of the closing date from December 31, 1989 to December 31, 1990 was discussed and
subsequently approved by the Bank. During this period, the second priority projects and additional
components proposed by the city and agencies concerned were again reviewed.
38.    Some of the changes made in the Project package were:
(a)   During appraisal, only Bacolod, Iloilo and Davao planned to institute geometric
improvements on city streets as part of their respective traffic management components.
In 1987, a revised study on traffic management was undertaken to include Cagayan de
Oro. This study identified 29 intersections for traffic signalization and 43 intersections
for geometric improvements. Later on, 13 more intersections were added for traffic
signalization in Bacolod and Cagayan de Oro due to the increase in traffic volumes in the
cities.
(b)   At appraisal only 4.3 km of street lighting in Cagayan de Oro were included in the
project. However, this was increased to 7.12 km during project implementation.
(c)   Community facilities were included in the project during project implementation in
support of the sites and services and slum upgrading components.
(d)   At appraisal, there were sixteen (16) markets included in the project. At closing, only
fourteen (14) markets were constructed or rehabilitated. During the 1986 restructuring,
the Puerto Market in Cagayan de Oro was dropped and replaced with the rehabilitation
of the Agora Market. In Iloilo City, the Bank approved the rehabilitation of the Juro Big
Market in place of the Mandurriao New Market. However, implementation was canceled



- 9 -
when the City Council stopped the City Government from further acquiring foreign loans.
In Davao, the proposed Piapi and Talomo Markets were deleted from the package and
replaced with the Bankerohan Market.
(e)   At appraisal, six areas were identified for development into sites and services projects.
Villamonte, New Market and Banago in Bacolod; Mandurriao in Iloilo City; Kauswagan
in Cagayan de Oro City and Agdao in Davao. Villamonte and New Market were
dropped during the 1986 restructuring and subsequently Banago was also canceled due
to land acquisition problems. Pahanocoy was developed to replace the three Bacolod
sites. In Davao, three new sites, Toril, Mamay-Buhangin and Ma-a were added to the
Agdao site. In total, seven areas were developed as sites and services projects with an
aggregate area of 104.94 ha subdivided into 6,487 plots with 38,922 beneficiaries
compared to appraisal projections of 149.6 ha, consisting of 9,851 plots with a target of
78,000 beneficiaries. There were nine slum upgrading projects completed with an
aggregate area of 55.86 ha consisting of 4,616 plots with 27, 696 beneficiaries. The
original targets for slum upgrading projects were eight project sites covering 73.20 ha
which was expected to generate 6,882 plots for 55,056 beneficiaries.
(f)   The mini-industrial estate project in Davao City was dropped and converted into a site
and service project by the NHA due to the difficulty of disposing commercial and
industrial plots developed under the Urban II loan package in Davao and Cagayan de
Oro.
39.    Due to the foreign exchange fluctuations which occurred from appraisal, the NHA requested the
Bank to reduce its loan component from US$21.38 million at appraisal to US$10.50 million and then to
US$5.579 million. The amount of US$4.921 million was finally dropped from NHA's loan allocation
in 1989.
40.    Another US$2.643 million was dropped from the Technical Assistance allocation in 1991. This
was due to the NEDA policy, adopted after the change in government in 1986, of not utilizing loan funds
for project preparation and training. Furthermore, a second phase of RCDP was not deemed necessary
at that time in view of the existence of similar projects such as the Municipal Development Project (MDP
or, as known locally, PREMIUMED), Loan 2435-PH, and the MDP II (known as MMINUTE), Loan
3146-PH.
41.   In July 1989, the RCDPO initiated a review of the loan balance to determine the total loan
requirements of RCDP until the loan closing date. The exercise revealed an estimated US$8.1 million
in excess loan funds even with the inclusion of all second priority and additional projects. Considering
the excess loan funds, the four cities and the implementing agencies concerned requested that additional
projects be included in the RCDP package. In view of this, the second extension of the loan closing date
from December 31, 1990 to December 31, 1991 was requested and approved by the Bank. A final
request for a three month extension of the closing date from December 31, 1991 to March 31, 1992 was
granted to allow the use of loan funds to fund projects which extended beyond 1991.
42.    The final cost of the project was P1,633.6 billion (US$70.87 million) compared to P1,031 billion
(US$ 114.6 million) at appraisal, an increase of 58% in Peso terms but a decrease of 38% in US Dollar
terms. The increase in Peso costs is due to a combination of actual inflation being higher than that
projected at appraisal, adjustments to the project scope and a longer implementation period. The decrease



- 10-
in project costs in US Dollar terms is due to the devaluation of the Peso which dropped from P9 to the
Dollar used during appraisal to P27 by 1992.
43.    The final Bank loan amount came to US$39.436 million with US$27.564 million having been
canceled from the original loan of US$67.0 million.
44.    The change in the project components resulted in an increase in the share of total project cost
of urban transport, drainage and sanitation, municipal enterprises and community facilities from appraisal
estimates. Urban transport increased from 22% at appraisal to 33%, while the share of drainage and
sanitation rose from 13% to 16%. The share of shelter in total project cost dropped from 28% at
appraisal to 119i at closing date. Technical assistance and training share decreased from 11.7% at
appraisal to 10.2%.
Projct Results
45.    Overall, the Project achieved its objectives in relieving infrastructure bottlenecks and contributing
to the growth of the project cities, and improving basic services, especially for the urban poor.
(a)   Urban transport projects consisting of 54.249 km of roads, 11.42 km of street lighting,
geometric improvements in 43 intersections and signalization in 42 intersections relieved
congestion in the central business districts, improved flows on heavily travelled routes,
provided access and opened new development areas, reduced travel time and vehicle
operating costs and improved safety along major thoroughfares.
(b)   Drainage projects comprising 39.089 km reduced damages to property and public
infrastructure as well as opening up hitherto flood prone areas for commercial
development.
(c)   Shelter projects generated 11,103 serviced plots for 66,618 beneficiaries in seven sites
and services projects and nine slum upgrading projects in the four project cities. The
shelters were generally affordable to families with income in the 10th to the 30th
percentile range.
(d)   The fourteen market projects provided 61,680 sq.m. divided into 7,070 additional or
rehabilitated stalls which increased the revenue base of the city governments, generated
more economic activities and incomes in and around the markets and improved access
of consumers to food products and other basic commodities.
(e)   Equipment procured under the project improved the solid waste collection and
maintenance capability of the four cities.
(f)   The bus terminal in Davao city reduced traffic congestion in the city center and provided
a more convenient transfer facility for public transport communities.
46.    Population growth from 1980 to 1990 in three of the four project cities were higher than both
the national and provincial growth rates. Bacolod City grew at 2.43% per annum compared to 2.34%
for Negros Occidental. Cagayan de Oro had the highest growth rate among the four cities at 4.16%
annually as against 3.01% of Misamis Oriental. Davao City had a 3.19% growth per annum compared



- 11 -
to Davao del Sur's 2.76%. Iloilo had the lowest growth rate among the four cities at 1.76% annually
even lower than that of Iloilo province of 2.04%. Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro and Davao had higher
population growth rates than the national rate of 2.42%.
47.   In 1980, Bacolod and Iloilo were already 100% urban while in Cagayan de Oro and Davao only
75% and 67% of total population respectively were urban. In 1990, 93% of the population of Cagayan
de Oro was already urban while Davao's urban population grew to 73% of total population.
48.    Based on the ERR's and FIRR's projected during appraisal, the effectiveness of individual
investments appear to be mixed.
(a)   Markets. Cagayan de Oro was able to implement the new market tariffs, and in 1991,
earned P1.2 million surplus net of debt service, operation and maintenance costs. The
other three project cities, however, were unable to improve the market fees proposed to
make the markets financially viable. Davao collected only P6 million in market fees in
1991, 35% of the projected revenues of P17 million and about 46% of the projected
break-even point of P13 million. Actual collection in Bacolod was only P1.816 million
in 1991, short of the P4.532 million needed to break even. Iloilo's market fee collection
in 1991 reached only P6.139 million, compared to the P11.252 million needed to break-
even.
(b)   Slaughterhouses. Davao City completed its slaughterhouses in 1991. However, the
revenues generated from its operation that year were not sufficient to cover operating
costs and debt service since the fees approved by the City Council were much lower than
recommended by the project.
(c)    he bus terrninal in Davao is finally earning a profit after two years of being subsidized
by the City Government. The bus terminal operation realized net surpluses of P1.976
million in 1990 and P1.834 million in 1991 from revenues of P3.510 million and P3.710
million respectively. These were sufficient to cover operating and maintenance costs and
debt service.
(d)   Urban transport projects were the most effective among RCDP project components. An
evaluation of two road components in Davao showed lRRs above 200 percent. Traffic
volumes along J.P. Laurel St. increased from 13,582 vehicles in 1988 to 25,473 vehicles
in 1992. Traffic volume exceeded the study forecast of 3 percent annually by more than
500 percent by recording an annual growth rate of 15.2 percent. The IRR was completed
at 248.6 percent for this road. The other project component, Generoso Bridge, registered
as an annual traffic growth rate of 4.2 percent compared to 3 percent projected during
its preparation. From 1988 to 1992, traffic volumes increased from 31,200 vehicles to
39,920 vehicles, generating an IRR of 282.6 percent. Land values increased along newly
constructed roads. Along three new road projects alone, the Matina connector road in
Davao, the Osmena Extension in Cagayan de Oro and the Granada-Marcia Road in
Bacolod, real property values increased by 760 percent, 400 percent and 1,500 percent,
respectively.
(e)   Shelter projects' projected economic rates of return were estimated at appraisal to be:
25% in Bacolod; 29% in Cagayan de Oro; 36% in Davao; and 30% in Iloilo with an



- 12 -
overall estimated return of 30% for the shelter component. However, the net present
values (NPVs) calculated (using a direct rate of 14%) after the closing date yielded
negative values for all cities indicating that the projected average ERR of 30% (at a
discount rate of 14%) was not realized by the project. Moreover, the present value for
benefits fell short of the present value for costs in all the cities. The benefits in terms
of receipts from disposition of completed lots which were supposed to flow into the
project were not realized as scheduled. The negative NPVs could be attributed to the
following factors: (a) actual costs incurred per project were much higher than the
estimated costs; (b) the project took much longer to complete than originally planned; (c)
the disposition of completed lots took more time than the estimated schedule particularly
for slum upgrading projects. Based on the Cagayan de Oro shelter project which was
implemented according to the original time frame and with the least changes, the IRR
computed was 7 percent which was much lower than the 29 percent projected during
appraisal. Following are the net present values derived for each of the project cities:
CITY            NPV BENEFITS  NPV COSTS   DIFFERENCE OF COSTS
AND BENEFITS
Bacolod         1.25             21.01          (19.77)
Iloio           10.45            30.60          (20.16)
Cagayan de Oro  6.04             6.93          (0.88)
Davao           13.46            15.48          (3.03)
49.    Through their experience in the planning and implementation of the project, the cities have
gained considerable improvements in their institutional capacities particularly in terms of project
planning, preparation and management. Those staff of the City Project Offices (CPO) subsequently
absorbed back into the mainstream city government units brought with them considerable experience
and expertise which the cities are benefitting from in the preparation of projects such as the Third
Municipal Development Project (MDP III, Loan 3455-PH).
50.    The impact on operation and maintenance, however, may not yet be fully realized as of
closing date. At the outset of this project, the capacity of local governments was considered a project
risk. The doubts eventually proved valid as the managerial and technical capability of city staff was
strained to the limits considering that the magnitude and complexity of the respective city components
were far greater than any of their previous undertakings. Adjustments to the new responsibility took
time but by the loan's closing date, the cities in general achieved considerable improvements in
project planning preparation and management.
51.    Local politics had an impact on the efficient and timely implementation of the project.
Conflicts between contending political interests particularly between the local executives and the local
legislative councils and the changes in local leadership caused considerable delays and even led to the
withdrawal of Iloilo from the project.



- 13 -
Project Sustainability
52.    The project has contributed substantially to the economic growth of the cities through major
improvements in infrastructure and facilities. The resultant growth increased the fiscal base which
greatly enhanced city revenues which in turn could be translated into higher capital investments and
maintenance budgets.
53.    The enactment of the Local Government Code in 1991 increased the relative share of national
tax transfers (Internal Revenue Allotments) to cities and further improved the capacity of the cities to
replicate the project and address remaining infrastructure bottlenecks. Their financial capacity for
sustaining maintenance of completed projects is likewise improved.
54.    However, the cities in general have not provided as much as expected and agreed upon in
terms of maintenance budgets. Based on available information, only Davao City seems to have met
the targets for maintenance budgets for municipal enterprises in 1993.
55.    Only Cagayan de Oro has imposed the fee structure needed to make the markets viable. The
three other cities have not passed the required ordinances increasing their respective market fees to
the levels recommended by the project. Thus Davao, Bacolod and Iloilo continue to subsidize the
operation and maintenance of their respective markets.
56.    The fees approved for the slaughterhouse in Davao were much lower than those
recommended by the project while the Cagayan de Oro abattoir has been leased to a private operator
and is earning enough to cover amortization and additional revenues for the city. The bus terminal in
Davao City is now earning sufficiently to cover debt service, operations and maintenance and still
realize a surplus of nearly P2 million in 1990 and 1991.
Bank Performance
57.    The preparation of the project was very expensive, relying heavily on expatriate consultants.
While the expense was acceptable and normal for this kind of state-of-the-art project, in retrospect,
more "technology transfer' and a greater appreciation of likely problems to be faced might have been
realized had more local input been sought.
58.    The Bank's performance during implementation was generally satisfactory. Project
management was flexible in response to problems encountered during implementation and innovative
in improving implementation relationships, such as including the RCDP in the Municipal
Development Fund created to channel funds to local governments. The Bank took firm but flexible
positions with regard to sub-component prioritization, allowing a focus to be maintained throughout
the implementation period which benefitted the project.
Borrower Performance
59.    Borrower performance was generally satisfactory considering the adverse political and
economic conditions during implementation, the project's new multi-sectoral approach and its wide
scope, and that it was the first project of its kind handled by the concerned local governments.



- 14 -
60.    The borrower recognized the significance of the project's development objectives and pursued
the project diligently in spite of the extremely difficult conditions.
61.    In retrospect, however, the borrower could have prepared the project in several phases
starting with a simpler, smaller investment package gradually increasing over the succeeding phases.
This could have allowed institutional and financial capacities at the national and local levels to greatly
adjust to the demands of the project and build up to the level required by a complex and large multi-
sectoral project. Institutional arrangements could have been tested, modified and improved
accordingly without major repercussions on project implementation and timetable. Specific processes
such as those relating to land acquisition could have been identified and problems anticipated
problems more accurately.
62.    The phased project could have started with national infrastructure at the city level. This
could have given the cities sufficient exposure and experience eventually building up their capacities
over the duration of the first phase. Needs assessment for local infrastructure could have handled by
the cities during this phase to reflect their own perspective and ensure a demand-driven project
package in the succeeding phases.
63.    The shelter component should have been treated as a separate project fully implemented by
NHA. This could have simplified project preparation, implementation, financing and ownership.
This could have averted the conflict between NHA and local governments which were already evident
in their previous shelter projects.
64.    The DPWH should have been the lead agency for the project such as in subsequent Bank-
financed urban operations including MDP II (Loan 3146-PH) and MDP III (Loan 3455-PH).
Consultancy Services
65.    Substantial consultancy inputs were provided for project identification, preparation and
implementation. In general, the performance of the consultants was satisfactory.
66.    However, there were problems due to survey oversights resulting in major revisions in
detailed engineering designs. Some detailed engineering plans were done without the benefit of
topographic surveys and sub-soil investigations thus necessitating major redesign work causing
unnecessary delays in project implementation. Design flaws have resulted in numerous variation
orders which ultimately affected project costs.
67.    The site selection methodology used may have overlooked important factors such as
accessibility to utilities for shelter projects, ease of securing or acquiring land and right-of-way and
potential use of adjoining areas. Two sanitary landfills, one each in Bacolod and Davao, were not
operated due to their proximity to residential areas.
68.    The consultants could have been too optimistic in packaging a project of such magnitude and
scope without a realistic appreciation of what was "do-able" considering the institutional and financial
capacities of both national agencies and local governments.
69.    There were several contractors who performed unsatisfactorily resulting in contract
termination. In Bacolod one contract was terminated and three were still on-going as of closure due



- 15 -
to poor performance of contracts. Three contracts each in Cagayan de Oro and Davao were similarly
rescinded because of the unsatisfactory performance of some contractors.
70.    Some equipment suppliers were unable to deliver on schedule due to problems with
manufacturers such as non-agreement with regard to commission fees, change in local distributorship
and delayed opening of Letters of Credit.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLEMION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2257-PH)
PART 11. PROJECT REVIEW FORM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. NATIONAL ECONOMIC AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY: LESSONS/PROSPECTS3
IMPLEMENTATION
71.   While RCDP's land acquisition process - negotiation, expropriation and presidential
proclamation - was proven to have mixed success, an equitable and simplified method is still needed
by which the government can acquire land for public use. Negotiation may have been the simplest
method but the government was subjected to the capricious whims of landowners in the negotiation
process. Expropriation entailed a long and tedious process while presidential proclamation was
applicable only to govermnent-owned land.
72.   The amendment of MOA for infrastructure (through MOU) cut several layers in bureaucratic
process, at least for the municipal enterprise component, but not enough for the project to be
implemented and completed on schedule. Further streamlining of the government's bureaucratic
procedures is necessary for the government to implement projects within the time frame and budget
thereby maximizing the benefits.
73.   A number of projects were rescinded and/or terminated due to the contractors' poor
performance. The lengthy delays and additional costs put the economic and financial viability of
several projects in question. This may have been caused by various factors, but certainly, erring
contractors could be minimized or prevented from participating in future biddings if the PBAC in
each RCDP implementing agencies is strengthened and all applicable laws are strictly enforced.
74.   The implementing agencies should capitalize on their improved technical capabilities for the
thorough and careful preparation of detailed engineering designs and minimize if not avoid issuance of
excessive variation orders.
75.   Each project city had different priorities in equipment requirement. The problems arising
from these differences may be minimized in future projects if the cities are given the prerogative to
handle the procurement of their respective equipment. The Cities, however, should improve and
enhance their technical capabilities in different procurement procedures, particularly those involving
importation and foreign loans.
'. Excerpted from NEDA's Project Completion Report, 31 March 1992.



- 17 -
76.   The true benefits of RCDP would be realized if the cities continue to identify, prepare and
implement similar project components in the future using the considerable experience gained by their
key technical staff who were heavily involved in the Project.
FINANCIAL
77.   Separate books of accounts for MEU should be established. Apart from complying with the
loan covenant, it is to the Cities' advantage to know whether their MEs are self-financing or incurring
deficits, and thus undertake remedial measures if necessary. Along with this effort is the need for a
fegular review of pricing policies to see to it that all MEs, including similar future projects, are
operating on self-financing basis.
78.   Each implementing agency should establish a proper monitoring procedure for their respective
budgetary allocation to ensure availability of funds for payment to contractors. This would at least
minimize if not avoid unnecessary delays due to the contractors' refusal or reluctance to proceed with
the contract until billings are paid.
79.   For relatively small contracts (for the national component), decentralization of payment for
progress billings needs to be considered. This will encourage contractors to complete the project on
schedule as they are assured of prompt payment of their progress billings.
80.   Considering the problems encountered by RCDP from the imposition of monthly agency
ceilings, it is recommended that foreign-assisted projects nearing completion (at least six [6] months
before loan closing date) be exempted from said ceiling or be given priority inasmuch as the basis for
said releases is the availability of funds coming from the lending institution. Had there been no
restrictions in fund releases, the project could have availed of more loan funds which in turn could
have been channeled to DPWH components. The budgetary deficit of DPWH could have been
reduced if not overcome.
INSTITUTIONAL
81.   The full and continuous support of local officials was essential in the successful
implementation of RCDP. However, the project management had to exert more efforts in maintaining
the working relations among local government officials who were unable to reconcile their political
differences. Attempts of individuals/officials from the city and national government to claim
recognition in the implementation of RCDP projects further aggravated the strained relationships.
The lack of cooperative effort among the city government's political units deprived the development
projects of much-needed funds. In effect, the ultimate loser was the city.
82.   The passage of the 1991 Local Government Code (LGC) gave the local governments the
opportunity for direct local planning. In retrospect, the cities' efforts to sustain the implementation of
their respective action programs were hampered by budget constraints. Under the new scenario, the
cities are now in a much better position to pull together the required resources to attend to the
implementation of their action programs.
83.   As envisioned, the action programs were primarily intended to extend the economic life of
infrastructure facilities and equipment derived through RCDP. Implementation of the action programs
and other loan covenants would ensure the cities of maximizing the economic benefits.



- 18 -
84.   The devolution of several functions from the national to the local government brought about
by the 1991 LGC may require intensive trainings on the part of the LGU's. The trainings availed of
by RCDP cities for the last 10 years gave them an edge over the other Philippine cities as far as the
following aspects are concerned: (a) planning and implementation of development projects; (b) city
finance administration; and (c) operations and maintenance of existing facilities and services.
85.   The RCDP cities should therefore capitalize the advantages they got, and continue to identify,
prepare and implement similar project components in the future in order to sustain the momentum
gained from RCDP towards achieving their objectives - economic development and growth.
B. NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY -- CONCLUSIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS4
86.   The shelter component under the Regional Cities Development Project or Urban IV was an
attempt of NHA to undertake a housing program of such magnitude outside the Metro Manila area. It
was likewise an attempt of relating with the local government units under a different scheme of
institutional and financial arrangement. The experience was enriching both in terms of its internal
system and procedures and by way of the opportunity to define the appropriate relationship with the
local government units pertinent to housing.
87.   The operations of NHA have always been concentrated in the Metropolitan Manila area and in
the resettlement sites in the neighboring provinces. NHA had some attempts in the past to operate
outside the Metro Manila area but the magnitude of these projects was minuscule compared to Urban
IV. This involved very specific undertaking as the development of resettlement projects in Paoay or
in Tolosa, the Pambansang Bagong Nayon (PBN) Project in Cebu, Legazpi, Bacolod, Marawi and
Tawi-Tawi, the Landed Estates Project in San Manuel, Tarlac and Maimpis, Pampanga and prior to
Urban IV, the Slum Upgrading and Resettlement Project (SIR) or Urban 1I Project in Cebu, Cagayan
de Oro and Davao. These prior experiences were either undertaken solely by NHA (as in the case of
the PBN and SIR). Both PBN and SIR were lending operations with technical assistance provided to
the local government units concerned.' For these projects, NHA has created Project Teams on an
ad-hoc basis.
88.   Under Urban IV, the scope and magnitude have included both two major programs as the
sites and services and slum upgrading involving a target of over 15,000 units and 19 project sites
simultaneously in four (4) major urban centers of the country, two of which in Western Visayas and
the two others in Mindanao area.
89.   In the past, relationship with the local government units has been limited to lending operations
with technical assistance in the form of consultancy engagement on a need basis operated from the
central office or a creation of a composite team assigned as counterpart staff and based in the project
city.
4. Excerpted from the National Housing Authority's Project Completion Report, July 1993.
5 Under the SIR/Urban II, NHA took over the implementation of the Cagayan de Oro Project from the City government
after a break-down of the negotiations with the newly-installed administration to pursue the project under the original
arrangement with the previous city administration.



- 19 -
90.   Urban IV was undertaken under a joint venture scheme on a 60-40 arrangement where the
local government unit's investment represent 60 percent and NHA's equity infusion of 40 percent.
Local government's investment was funded with borrowings from the NHA and NHA's investment
carried a cost of nine (9%) percent. Under the joint venture arrangement, the local government unit
has to create a team to undertake the project with counterpart staff from the NHA with each agency
defining the type of expertise and number of their contribution in terms of personnel. Funding for
NHA, under this project consisted of borrowings from the Philippine Government out of the World
bank loan relent to NHA which in turn was relent to the project cities and capital infusion from
national govermment counterpart funding in the project released to NHA as equity.
91.   The NHA has always been under highly centralized management and the implementation of
this project has put to test this type of management where power and authority emanate from the top.
In effect, the administration of this project was an example of the effects of centralized authority in an
undertaking where devolution and decentralization were called for, given the nature of the institutional
and financial arrangement. It has likewise put to test certain policies and operating systems of NHA
in a local environment outside the Metro Manila area.
92.   There were significant gains from this particular project - one pertains to relationship with the
local government; second, the structural and institutional character of a regional operations; and third,
the areas of improvement in policies and operational systems.
93.   The need to define the working relationship between local and central government pertinent to
the housing program, becomes significant in the light of the passage into law of the Urban
Development and Housing Act of 1992 (Republic Act 7279) and the implementation of the Local
Government Code. For sometime,m the NHA has been trying to define the appropriate relationship
with the local government units. A number of schemes have been tried and tested. Based on this
pool of experiences, NHA can now be in a position to define its role in the implementation of a
housing program at the local level and its relationship with the local government unit. Despite the
reversal to direct implementation by NHA under this particular experience, the joint venture scheme
under Urban IV was an eye-opener. It has unearthed its potentials as well as its pitfalls. Under the
two aforecited laws, the local government units have been clothed with major authority along the lines
of devolution and decentralization. The implications of these laws pinpoint to the need for NHA to
relate with the local government units, as facilitator and catalyst in housing provision.
94.   Cognizant of the significant contribution of the other actors in the process of housing
provision and delivery, the NHA has adopted the role of a facilitator. It has realized the limitations
of direct production, if it wants to be true to its national character and address the magnitude of the
housing situation of the country. Along this role as a facilitator in the process of housing provision
and delivery, NHA can pursue the relationship with the local government units under a joint venture
scheme. NHA has to recognize the need to build up the capability of the local government units
through a hands-on type of technology transfer. Exigency must be subservient to the long term gains
of being able to build up that capability at the local level.
95.   On the organizational aspect, the local government units have demonstrated under Urban IV,
its capability to set up and create its housing teams or offices. Given the experiences of the local
personnel involved in the implementation of this project, there is a pool of local expertise in housing
established, particularly in the project cities involved and a potential to tap and establish the same in
other areas. The areas of improvement point to the selection process and the highly politicized



- 20 -
recruitment procedure. The other aspect points to the need to enhance technical capability. The
political realities at the local level indicate the need of creating a local housing board that ensures
continuity of the program and policies with minimal political pressure and influences or intervention.
96.   The financial capability of the local government has yet to be established. It seems that local
government units have the tendency of being strapped with financial obligations. A scheme has to be
established such that the financial viability of the housing program is clearly demonstrated. All
available resources such as land have to be put to use. Given an additional capital infusion to finance
development either directly or in joint venture with the private sector, the issue of ensuring cost
recovery has to be addressed. Along this line, it is important for the local government units to
establish a program that is replicable, and to adopt a policy that a housing program or the social
housing program for that matter, has to recover its investment in order to further or multiply its
benefits. The prospects of the secondary mortgage market and the social housing tax under the local
government code and UDHA are factors which assure the financial viability of a local housing
program.
97.   The housing problem of the country has a national character. While confronted with the
magnitude of the housing problem in Metro Manila or the National Capital Region, the demand for
housing in the other regional urban centers is increasing. The NHA as a national housing agency
cannot simply concentrate its efforts in the National Capital Region. There has to be an even
distribution of the government housing program delivery throughout the country. In this respect, the
NHA has to address the issue of the structural and institutional character of regional operations.
98.   The experience under Urban IV of the effects of a highly centralized management suggests a
mover towards decentralization and devolution of authority to the local level. At this state,
organizational changes should be in the priority agenda. The Regional Projects Department which
was created to attend to projects outside the NCR, has outgrown its need. That Department, given
the scope of operations and geographic consideration has to be replaced with units tasked to undertake
the housing program in each region or by regional distribution. Already the NHA, as an interim
measure, has created the Area Management Offices, which allowed Management, direct supervision
in the different regions of the country. Under the proposed organizational set up of NHA, regional
offices are being envisioned. The changes required, however, goes beyond structural changes. The
basic idea is to cloth these regional offices with authority corresponding to their level of
responsibility. The levels of authority now vested upon the Area Management Offices, could serve as
the laboratory for defining what authority could be devolved to the local units. While, the delegation
of authority is contingent upon the capability of the key officers assigned at the local level, such
capability or even trust has to be developed, and its development rest upon certain authorities
devolved to them from time to time. The central management of NHA has to start somewhere and a
program of decentralization and devolution has to be formulated and implemented.
99.   The areas of improvement in policies and operational systems indicated, based on the
experience under Urban IV, are particularity in almost all areas of operation from site selection to
project turn over. Priorities, however, have to be established and priorities pinpoint to the need to
address the issue of project supervision.
100. Management should be concerned with the level of expertise on project supervision Much of
the problems could have been averted, if there exist proper and adequate supervisory skills in the key
officers assigned for regional operations. Sufficient training on supervisory skills has to be instituted,



- 21 -
initially before such personnel are field and on a regular basis, their experiences can be consolidated.
In the need to push the projects, and with the limited number of highly qualified and available
personnel, key personnel are assigned without the benefit of tooling them with the proper tools of
supervision. As such they are subjected to the difficult task of figuring out for themselves what to do
under trying circumstances.
101.  On the other aspects of operations, certain changes have already been adopted by NHA such
as the benefit of a pre-feasibility study or a feasibility study in line with site selection. Projects are
evaluated and selected on the basis of their feasibility with a corresponding projection on the selling
prices matched against the affordability of the target market. For land acquisition, negotiations have
been resorted to with the aid of real estate valuation from qualified agencies, as to their current fair
market value. Land development is not pursued without first securing the titles to the land and
ensuring the requirements such as land conversion clearance, permits and licenses. Allowances due to
weather conditions have been incorporated in the duration of the contract and variation orders and
time extensions are subjected to evaluation by a collegiate body created for this purpose. Detailed
engineering designs are done with the benefit of topographic surveys and the like. Negotiations with
the utility companies are finalized before the inception of land development. As selling prices are
predetermined, this serves as cost control and at the same time ensures the disposition of the units
once physically completed. Trainings are being conducted to equip the sales force with the necessary
skills in sales and mortgage documentation while turnover of facilities are done immediate upon
completion with the local government unit or the agency concerned represented in the project
acceptance.
102.  The necessary changes in the system have been put in place. To avoid unlimited discretion,
these systems were formulated and issued in the form of documented policy statements and circular to
guide the operation units concerned.
103.  This documentation of the experiences under Urban IV serves as a way of consolidation
experiences in the pursuit of doing future undertaking, the better way.



22
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PIILIPPINES
REGIONAL C1ES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2257-PH)
PART I I I
SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
TABLE 1. RELATED BANK LOANS AND CREDITS
LOAN/CREDIT NAME                      | PURPOSE                                               I APPROVED I STATUS    | COMMENTS
Manila Urban                          |   Upgrade Tondo Foreshore and                         I   5/27176         |   Complete          |   PCR issued: PPAR
|   Development Project                   |   Phase I of Dagat-Dagatan                                                4                         No. 7092 dated 1/88.
0 (1282-PHj                               |   serviced site project.
- -- -- -- -- ........................................................ .                     --.-----...----------......-------------------........-.............
|   Second Urban                          |   Extend service sites and                            4   12/21/78        |   Complete          |   PCR issued: PPAR
|   Development Project                   |   upgrading to regional cities.                       I                   I                     I   No. 7092 dated 1/88.
( (Ln. 1647-PH)
|  Third Urban                            |   Expand slum  upgrading in Metro                     |   3/5/80          |   Complete          I   PCR No. 7897 issued
4  Development Project                    I  Manila.                                                                  4                     4   July 14. 1986.
| (Ln. 1821-PHI
|   Urban Engineering                     |   Assist in preparation of the                        I   12/8/81         I   Complete          I   PCR No. 7009 issued
I   Project (Ln.2067-PH)                   I   Regional Cities Development                        4                   4                     4   November 16. 1987.
and Second Central Visayes
Regional Projects.
-----------------------------------    ------------------------------------------------------1  ----------------I   ----------------     -----------------------------------
Municipal Development                 |   Assist local governments to provide                 |   615184          |   Closed            |   PCR to be issued.
|   Project ILn. 2435-PH)                 4  infrastructure by establishing                       |                   |   6/30/93
4   Municipal Development Fund.
------------------------------------------ . ................. ......................................  ---------------------------------- . -------------------------.........-:-
|   Second Municipal                      4   Continue development of the                         |   12/14/89            Active            4   Closing date is
4  Development Project                    4   municipal development program  begun                                                               12/31196.
( (Ln. 3146-PH)                           4   under MDP i.
--------- ............................................4...............                       -                ................          --...............-..-........--
Housing Sector Project                     I improve institutional and policy                 |   6/24/88         4   Undisbursed   |   Closing Date is
(Ln. 2974-PH)                         4   framework to promote efficiency and                 4                   4   Balance           |   6130/94. Project not              4
redirect new  housing to lower                     |                   4   Cancelled         |   in compliance with legal    4
income groups.                                                          4                    4   covenants.                        4
--    ------------------------         ------  ---------------------------------------------1    ---------------     ------------------     ------------------------------------
Third Municipal                          4   Continue municipal development                      |   3131/92         4   Active                 Closing Date is
4   Development Project                   4   program  begun under MOP I and                      4                   4                     4   6130199.
I   (Ln. 3455-PHi                         4   MDP it.
T.... ........................................... ....2........................................................ .... ................  .................. .........................................
*\PCR-RCDP\TABLEI\LOTUS1 23



23
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
PROJECT TIMETABLE         I    PLANNED DATE  I        ACTUAL DATE
Identification                  I                               11/80
Preparation                                                    06/01/81
Preappraisal                                                    11/81
Appraisal mission                                              3/82-4/82
I Minutes of negotiations                                         3/4/83
I Board Date                                                     3/31/83
I Loan Signature                                                 6/10/83
I Loan Effectiveness              I        10/12/83     i         2/11/84
Cancellations in loan amount                          I        11/04/86
10/23/89
07/29/91
:                        l                     l       08/14/92
I Completion                                12/88       I        3/31/92
I Closing                         I         12/89       1        3/31/92
PCR-RCDP\TABLE2\LOTUS1 23



24
TABLE 3. SUMMARY OF LOAN ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
PROJECT COMPONENT/AGENCY          REVISED LOAN     AMOUNT
ALLOCATION ($) DISBURSED ($)
I. CIVIL WORKS & EQUIPMENT         30,509,000.00  28,109,497.35
A. CIVIL WORKS                   23,980,500.00  20,605,144.55
1. NHA                          4,289,000.00   3,509,268.01
2. DPWH                        11,800,500.00   11,540,568.12
a. BACOLOD                      2,649,500.00   2,666,350.28
b. CAGAYAN                      3,250,700.00   3,735,360.82
c. DAVAO                       4,828,600.00    1266126.32
d. ILOILO                       1,071,700.00   872,730.70
3. CITY                         7,205,500.00   5,553,361.90
a. BACOLOD                       974,900.00    170,382.56
b. CAGAYAN                      1,414,000.00   897,429.14
c. DAVAO                        3,150,800.00   3,173,654.66
d. ILOILO                       1,665,800.00   1,311,895.54
4. LIVELIHOOD ZONE                685,500.00         0.00
B. EQUIPMENT                     6,528,500.00   7,504,352.80
II. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & TRAINING  8,427,000.00   7,310,816.24
A. PREMIUMED                       989,034.37    989,034.37
B. MTP                            1,400,002.59   1,151,805.35
C. MMUTSTRAP                       769,084.70    769,084.70
D. NHA                            1,290,000.00   697,547.33
E. MMTEAM                          332,912.53    332,912.53
F. NTPP                            963,708.09    963,708.09
G. RCDP                           1,335,044.76   1,345,341.61
H. DOF                             547,212.96    394,457.13
I. DOTC                            800,000.00    668,052.76
J. Cable Cost                                      1,077.51
III. FRONT-END FEE                   500,000.00    498,759.00
T 0 T A L                     39,436,000.00  35,919,072.59
NOTE: Totals for Parts IA, I.B. II. and Ill are actual disbursements as recorded by LOAAS.
Detailed disbursement figures provided by the Borrower in Part lA. and Part If A-J.
do not add up to the Bank's totals (missing $45,114.7 11



FIGURE 1: RCDP OVERALL PHYSICAL S-CURVE
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
90
()RIGINALTARGET(SAR 1983)   10   f   3       63        N5 8310Q0Y 9
RETtClREVI)E TARGF.1'(JlJE 19S6)    4 117    25          32        40       96 100K
RETUTREVISE TARGJET (JUNEC 19916)    4125                32        57       96       770      9S       99X
ACTUJAL ACCOMPLISI IMENl'(31 MARCHl1992)    4I1          22  L_  31          40      44        68       95s      98.X9    -
L -ORIGINAL TARGET (SAR I1983) RESTRUCTURED TARGET (JUNE 1986 )
L*REVISED TARGET (DEC 1'191)  4'ACTUAL ACCOMPLISHMENT (31 MARCH 19)92)



FIGURE 2: RCDP OVERALL FINANCIAL S-CURVE
1700 --_            ._             ____    __
1600                              ___                        _.  ___
1500                                                                              __
1400                _____           _.    __    __        _
1300                                                                                    _
1200
1100                                                                                  ____
CD 1000
0L
Co   900                                      -            v0'                     -.__
0~~0
ES       800 -__
600
500
400           ___                                             -        -- ,  _.
200    _.__
1 oo .;  --  
0
_________ _ 84  85  86      87        88       89        90       91    I ST QTR MAY'92
ORIGINAL PROGRAM (SAR)   100    372      633       854       1006
RESTRUCTURED PROGRAM (1988)   65    197       271       375      660      1069      1214
REVISED PROGRAM (DEC 1991)   65    203      298      418       572       735      1043     1577      1616     1621
EXPENDITURES (current prices)   56  165    272      374       466       603      1021     1535     1600
DISBURSEMENTS    35      166       247      329       434       649      961      1370     1436
EXPENDITURES(1983 prices)   38   98       158      212       268       319      480       647      666
ORIGINAL PROGRAM (SAR)   *RESTRUCTURED PROGRAM (1988) WREVISED PROGRAM (DEC 1991)
*EXPENDITURES (current prices) X DISBURSEMENTS                -EXPENDITURES (1983 prices)



TABLE 5: PROJECT COSTS (In Millions)
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - --_ - - - --_ - - - - - - _ - - - - - - - - - -- -  - - -   - - - - - - -__ _ _ _- - _ _-_ _   _ _ _-_ _ -_ _ - -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- _   _ _
SAR                    I              ACTUAL                  I  INCREASE
l           I                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PERiCENT OF              PERCENT OF
I  |  PESO  DOLLAR    PROJECT         : PESO      DOLLAR    PROJECT   I   PESO            DOLLAR
IUrban Transport               225.4        25.0        22.7 %        556.5        23.4        33.0 1        140.9 %       146.9 9
Drainage&Sanibtion     I      133.9        14.9        13.5%         264.3        12.6        17.8Y|A        97.4%         97.4A
MunicipalEnterprises          115.8        12.9        11.7%         210.2         8.6        12.1%         81.5%          81.5 "
ICommunity Facilities   I     - _         _           _                32.6         2.0         2.8 *A    n/a           n/a
I Shelter                      292.9        32.5        29.5 %        179.6         7.5        10.6 -A |    -38.7 %       -76.9 Y
Design & Supervision   J       40.9         4.5         4.1 % I      102.5         4.5         6.3 -A       150.6%          0.0 ox
Land Acquisition       I       72.1         8.0         7.3% |       104.7         4.6         6.5 OA       45.2 %       -42.5 X
TA&Training            I      105.3        11.7        10.6% |        168.2        7.2        10.2Y|I        59.7%         38.5'A
Front& Fee              I        4.5         0.5         0.5%          13.0         0.5         0.7YI       188.9%           0.0'x
TOTAL                 I      990.8       110.0       100.0%        1631.6        70.9       100.0 Y 1      64.7 %       -35.5A OA
NOTE: SAR Totals are net of Urban Engineering Loan which were included in original SAR figures.
PCR - RCDP-A:TABLE5\LOTUJS 123
-.



TABLESB: PROJECT FINANCING
I l               STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                                                      A CTUAL    IMPLEMENTED
-   -  -      --  .- -    --  . . -                                                   ..                                                 . .- -   --  .- -   --  -----------     -   ..-   ----  ...........-.  --  - - - -   --  ... . --  .- -  . - -   -   ----------   --  -   -   .. -
PESOS MILLION            I        DOLLARS MILLION          | FOREIGN    I            PESOS MILLION             I DOLLARS MILLION             I FOREIGN    I  FOREIGN
------------ -I------------ -------------| ---------- ------------- --A------------  AS%OF  ------------ -- ---------- ---------------- I----------- --------AA -A----------   AS%OF    AS%
|  TOTAL      I                                                                  I TOTAL        I  TOTAL
COMPONENT                      LOAN         GOP        TOTAL   I LOAN           GOP       TOTAL  I               I  LOAN         GOP         TOTAL   I  LOAN        GOP    TOTAL I                   I (PESO
SECTION)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - . - - - - - -- - - - - - - . - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - . - - - - . -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - . - -- - - - - - - - - . - - --
Urban Transport            I   72.19       85.47        157.66  |   8.02        9.50       17.52  I      46  %      295.52    261.02         556.54  |  12.18    11.21    23.39  I         52  %           53  %  |
Drainage & Sanitation          50.54       43.71         94.25  |   5.62        4.86       10.48         54  %  | 147.40    116.87           264.27        6.91     5.69    12.60          55  %  j        56  %  |
Municipal Enterprises      I   25.30       62.72         88.02  |   2.81        6.97        9.78  I      29  96 I 140.33         69.89       210.22  I   5.96       2.42      8.38  |      71  %|          67  %  |
Community Facilities            -            -            0.00  I    -                      0.00        n na  %  I   18.10       14.54        32.64  I   1.36       0.65      2.01  I      68  %9          55  %  I
Shelter                    I   50.15      143.31        193.46       5.57      15.92       21.49         26  %  I 125.71         53.87       179.58  I   5.28       2.26      7.54  I      70  %9          70  %  |
Design & Supervision       I                                                                       I             I    0.00      102.46       102.46        0.00     4.50      4.50  j       0  %9           0  %  I
Land Acquisition           |     0.00      72.08         72.08       0.00       8.01        8.01          0  %  |    0.00       104.73       104.73  j   0.00       4.56      4.56  j       0  %9           0  %  |
TA & Training              |   75.63        50.42       126.05       8.40        5.60      14.00         60  %  | 169.91          0.29       170.20  j   7.21       0.01      7.22  I    100  %  j        100  %  |
BASE COST SUBTOTAL J  273.81            457.71        731.52  I 30.42        50.86       81.28  I      37  %  I 896.97        723.67      1620.64  I 38.90    31.30   70.20  I           55  %  I        55  %  I
Physical Cont.             |   24.48       40.74         65.22  J   2.72        4.53        7.25         38  %  I      -                        *                                    I                             I 
Price Cont.                I   85.93      143.87        229.80  I   9.56       15.98       25.54  I      37  %  I      -                                                          *  *   
Front End Fee                    4.49        0.00         4.49  I   0.50        0.00        0.50  I    100  %  I   12.97          0.00         12.97  I   0.50      0.00      0.50  I    100  %  |        100  %  |
TOTAL PROJECT COST j  388.71            642.32      1031.03  I 43.20         71.37    114.57  I        38  %  I 909.94    723.67          1663.61  I  39.40    31.30    70.70  I         56  %|          56  %  I
..     .....................................    ..    .............   ..     ............   ..     ...... .. .. . . .. .. .. . . .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .
NOTE: Table does not reflect the de-obligation caused by the final cancellation of US$3.52, effective as of August 14, 1992, the date of the final disbursement.
PCR-RCDP%TABLE58%LOTU5 123



-   -   -     -   -     - a                          --   -- - - - - -- - - - - - - ---  - 0 -   -    -                                                    -  -   - - -  -  - - - -- -
0  0~ ~~0                                                         
340a                a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<     0     0               p 000.                         0
a,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                        0                                       3 
0  C            0    C~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -.  a                                                             a0 l
0  0        5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                      0
5.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-                                 -                        -   -                                                                      Si~~~~~~~~  o
*        -   ~~~~~~~-  ----------------          ------------  -      -s        -  --                                               -  -----------             
ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5C -aI
lk                                                                               g~~~~~~~~q  g        3= It 2
*                                                                                                                        C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9L
j:I                                                                                                      1~~~~~~~   9  -  5-~~~it9 
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -~ ~ ~~~i -                 - - - - - - - - -                   - - - - - - - -C               - - - - - - - - -                 - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -              



30
;  _- - - - - - - - - - -  _   - - - -        _ _ - - - - - -     _ - - - - -  _ - - 
2                  a-
-    - -  -  -  -   -               -                         -.e
*  _---- -----------------------                                 ---------- -
| We gX  - ,a     .     la  ,            83        _R,     h!9              g  ,
|~~~~~                            ..       3          !    !.ew*              ~8asr   
- - e   --  3             * --- - -            - - --
X~~~~  ;f a3                                       31        3 *2            
'-   --                   - 8-- - -                              2!-s9-     n-      -
- - -  - -- -  - - -_                  -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  __ - _      - -  -__ - --
- ---------- -                                -  -            -- -. e   t   t      g- -
x g           2g              g;3 3 2 
._ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ -- _- -    -  -   -  -  -  -   -  -  -   -  -  -   -  -  -   -
. 3p   a    2 '-                          tgo    '  33. ne I.*o  n 2
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----------------------------------------__-__---------
a                                    a
-- *. 2                                                     -  *  a z     2     
* e       *~              33       3         5 .
-      -*   - t   -   -  a    *        a e   * -  -  -     -                -- -  -  -  -
'_  a>  2  S  .  na    b a.    ;*e  
: ~   ~      ~      a        3        -:.
- - -  -  -  --   -  -  -   --   -  -  -  - -  -   -  -  - -  -  -----a2 2a . -- -
*        _            -a      _~n   
-----~~~----------------------__________________
is~a
Z   < n      __    n e           et            t'               3e 
O     -- - - _ _ _  _ _  _  _ _   _  _ _  _   __a__           _   _
E    %                                                          
_                                         --  _   _  _  _   _  _ _  _  _   _  _  _  _
 5  g  &   g   e     _  -  v          -  n  * ~~~~~~ e  -  Y



-    --   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -
2 X  s                         t   e                       X  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-              0       
I        I~~                                      ~~~                                                                           I  
'.~~~~~~ ':                                                                                         I i t 
____,_________----------- T------------------------------------------------------- --- -- -- -- -- ---
I, 9                                                   I '                           I8t,X         
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                   j                I           I                    I j                                   -i"d I i 
-o-----      ---       ------  ----- -------------------- ------------------------------
|-%~ ~~~~                                                       ~ I 1               Ii 1                                I j#- u  
9~~~~I                                                                                                      I                           
-                                                                                                          -  - -  -  -  -  .-q'
I------------- ----------------------------------------------------------____-__________________
+11US                                     :i                    g4                                                  !iXg.M
| _ ____ ________ ___________f _____________________________________  _________________ _______________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cs
---1     ----    ---   - - - --  - -  -- -  --   - --  --   - - - --  - --   - - - --  - --   --  - - -  - - - - -   -  - - - - -  ---   - -
0 g bX I ,' i,  g "  n "  g p  E M  S ,  R ,  E F 
c n,       _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _
-  -  -     ' -k ---    -  -|: -  -S - - -   -- - - - -  - -  -/' -g -  -                --                                                 -  -f  - -  -  -
F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~  ~ ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ I ,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



32
TABLE 60 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & TRAINING
STAFF APPRAISAL I    AMENOEO    I                  I    VARIANCE    I  1991 PROGRAM
COMPONENT/AGENCY             n REPORT (1980   PROCRAM (1991) I ACTUAL COST        SAR VS ACTUAL      VS. ACTUAL   I
I        i (Si             I       (Si      I        (Si      I        IS)      I
----------------------------------________-________ --------------___________---- ______--------    ------
1 Adviscy Service.s for
I Proq.t Imp(.m.ntation          I      2.720.000.00 I    2.624,917.67 1   1.876,675.78 1      843.324.24 1      748.241 91I
i aNEDA                      I       1,4X1,000.00      1.334.917.67     1.345,341.67        84,658.33    (10,424.00)
I  b. NHA                        I      1.290,000.00         .290,000.00 I   531.334.09 I      758.665.33        758,665.91 I
I                                I                 I                 I                I                 I                 I
12. MaNitoring MLicipI
FinabciM PmUdcIDCO            i        148000.00 I       197,212.96 1     197,212.96 1  (49.212.96)                0.00
13. Mwicipal  Recarc
rMwnonlVDOF                           1.032.000.00 I     350,000.00 j     197,224.17 I       834,756853 j      152,756.83
14. Muncipal Trining             I                 I                 I                I                 I                 I
ProgrwnDALG                           1.000,000.00 I    1,400,002.59 |   1,151,805.35 |  (151.805.35)    |     248,197.24 |
I                       ~        ~        ~~I  I             I                i                 I                 I
5S9condry CtU "P acet           I                                   i                                                    I
I PREMIUME0J)PWH                 I      1.500,000.00 I      989,034.37 I     969.034.37 I      510.96.63 I            0.00
S. Motro Manla SIo r7n
I Trwpartlon Startgy             I                 I                 I                I                  
| Sudyl                                 2.000.000.00 |    1.901.997.23 |   1.770.040999        2 2.950.01         131.947 24 |
1  aDOTC                                           I I      800.000.001      te8,052,71                 j I
b OPWH                                          1      1.101.997.23 I   1.101,997.23 |               I                 i
17 N.ondm Trmpontaog n                             i
IPlsnning Prog.cVNEDA                   1,000,000.00 I      963,7068091      963,708.09 1       36291.91 1            0.00
l~~                              ~        ~~ I               I                I                 I                 I 
18. LUbsVRonalDevelopm w. tn
I and LUrban Adrnhi on           I a o
I Stalgy/NEDA                             000,000.00             0.00                         08.00000 I              0.00
j9. NdonW Inc6Atrd Eawt                                              I
Inrtrnont Swte tStu"y/
hNE0ADOTA   T                          500000.00 1             0.00 I               I        500.00000I             0.00 I
I IO. FutI Projct 
Pieprpwation/NEDA             I      1.200.000.00 I           0.00 I       1               1.200.000.00            0.00
I11.CeCosal                     I                 i                           1,077.51 j   (1.077.51)   I   (1.077.51)
I   TOTAL                        I     11,700,000.00 1    8.425,872.91 1   7,146,808.20 1    4.563,19t.80 1     1.280,064.71 I
PCR-ACDPA:TAfLEaOTVSi 29



TABLE 7: BANK STAFF INPUTS (in Staffweeks)
--   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -. - - - - - - - -_ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_. - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Pre-
TASK                   FY82    FY82   FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87 FY88 FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93 FY94   TOTAL
LEN                        11.8         2.6       5.9                                                                                                                     20.3
LENP                     131.7        69.4                                                                                                                               201.1
LENA                                  63.4      26.4                                                                                                                      89.8
LENN                                              4.0                                                                                                                       4.0
SUPERVISION                                       6.3     17.1      28.9      18.8      24.0      6.8     19.4      17.6      15.9        14.4    2.2                    171.4
PCR                                                                                                                             0.6                2.2       1.1            3.9
____________________________________________________,_________________________.____________
TOTAL/I                143.5       135.4      42.5      17.1      28.9      18.8      24.0      6.8     19.4      17.6      16.5        14.4    4.5        1.1         490.7
1/ Totab may not add up due to rounding.
PCR-RCDP\A:TABLE7\LOTUS123



34
TABLE 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
--_---------------------------------------------------------________--------
MISSIONS                      STAfF FNO.   SPECIAUZATION                I RATING    I TYPE PROBLEM  I
------------------------------- ___________-----------------________-------
Pro-identificabon                  a 8    I Planner
2/13179-3t14t79          I             I Economist
Consultnt                                 I
Pr-identification           I      3        Planner
/18/79-6/26/79            I            I Engineer                     I             I
7/12/79-7117/79          I             I Industrial Engineer          I                              1
Identification
1115/W0-11130180                 a 6      Planner
Financial Analyst
Young Professional
i             I | Industrial Engineer
Two Consultants
Preparation                                 P 6    Planner
5| 21/60-530/00          I             I Financial Analyst
Research A"satant           I             I
Industrial Engin..                        I|
Division Chi t
Assistant Director
Preparation/I x                    4        Planner
1125/01-2119/81          I         .     FinancialAnalyst
Research Assistant
Indusrial Engineer
Prepwration/k               1      4        Pbanne 
6/29/81-71211-| Financial Ahlyst 
| IndustriEnginer
IILoanOfr O                               |
PreappraisaVi               I      5      I Planner
1 t/7/81-11/27/81                        M I Municipal Enginer
I            l t Enginer
Financial Analyst
Rsearch Aaestant
I             .        l             l                              l             l I  I 
Apprail                            6      J Planner
|    31152-4/13/82             j               Financial Analyst
Municpal Enginwr
Enginer
I                              I             I Indusrinl Enginer
I                              I             I ReearchAsbistant
I  Preparation                 I       2       Planner                      I             I
9/26/82-10/8/82          I             I Eocnornmit
10129/62-11 82/62
I                .                           I                              I             I        
Supervision,1                 1       2       P lanne 
1    5115/3-6/10/63                            Enginer
Supwision                          2      I Plann 
2110/-2V12/84            I                OperationsOtfioer
I                              I       .                                    I             



35
TABLE 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
--------------------------------------------------------------__-----------
MISSIONS                    STAFF NO.   SPECIALIZATION              j RATING    ITYPE PROBLEM f
-------------------------- ----------l --------- ---------                           -----------l______
Supervision                      I     I Enginer                          2
7113/84-7/18/64
Supervision               I      2        Enginerw                         2
1016184-11/6184                        Economist
Supervision               I      2      I Engineer
3/85                                   Economist
Supervision                      I 1      Engineer                         4      I Financial
11/27/85-11/28/85       I            I  .                                      I
Supervision/I                   2      I Engineer
6/26/86-6/27/86         I            I Economist
Supevision /       1              1       Municipal Enginer
10/27/86-1I/15/86
Supervision /I                   3        Economist                 I      2
3123/87-3/27187         I            I Municipal Enginer
Finarcial Analt
Supervision/I                    I        Economist
7128/87-8/15/87         I            I                            I .
Supervision/I                   3      | Economist                 |      2      |
8/26/88-7/11/88         |            I i     rch Assistagnt
I            l | EnginrI
Supervision /1                    1       Transport Specialist      I             I
11124J88-11128/88       |            I                            1            I        
I  1/24a-I12a8B         I            I                   .                                      I
Supervision                      2      I Economist                  I      2
2118/89-2/24/89         I            I Enginer
I                    ~      ~     ~~~                                 ~     ~~               ~~~~~~~I  I  I  I  i.
Supervision /1                    1     I Transport Specialist
4/13/89-4114/89
Supervision /I                   1        Economist                        3
8/29/89-9/21/89
Supervision/I                     1      Economist                  I      2
2/290-3124190
Superviion/i              |      2        Econormist                 |      2
10/1/90-10/19/90       |             I Enginw
l~~ ~~~~ ~~                                                                           ~      ~~~~~~~ I  I      



36
TABLE 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
MISSIONS                   STAFF NO.  SPECIAUZATION                RATING    ITYPE PROBLEM
-------------------------- -----------l--------- ---------                        -----------l______
|  Supervision /1                   1    I Operations Officer
11/4-11/6/90
Supervision /1           I      I       Operations Offcer
|    2/16191-2123/91
Supervision /1                  I 1     Operations Officer
8/22-8/24/91          I            I                           I                            I
I  Supervision'/l           j      I    I Opwrations Officer
3/1/92-3/16/92
Supervision              I      1       Economist
8/25/92                I           I                           I            I               I
I                           i            I                           I            I               I
Supervision /I           I      1       Operations Oflor          i
10/17-10/19/92
I  Supervision/i            I      1       Operations Officor        I            I               I
1    2/23/93-3/6/93         1            1                           1            1
1/ Combined with other missions.
PCR-RCDP\A TABLE8\LOTUS123



ANNEX 1
Page 37
REGIONAL CIIIES KEYELOPMENT PROJECT
financial evaluation of Neu Market Project (SAR)
Racolod City
(P'000)
TOTAL     ANNUAL      ANNUAL       AWNUAL     OISCOUNT   PRESENT      oISCOUII  PRESENT
YEAI   INVEsTMENT  OPERATING   OPERATING    NET CASH    FACTOR    VALUE OF    FACTOR AT  VALUE OF
COSTS      COSTS       mmE         IWLOH        Ar ax    N IFLOW         92       NETFLWO
(OUYFLOV)              Al el                   AT 91
(1)      (2)          (3)          (4)   (Sl:(4)-(2H-(3)     (6)   (71:(51(6()        (9)   (91:(50)1(9
1984          23                                   0        1.000          -23      1.000           -23
1905                                               0       0.926            0      0.917              0
1986                                               0       0.857            0       0.o42             0
1997                                               0       0.794            0       0.772             0
1998                                               0       0.735             0      0.703             0
1999                  4,562       5,759        1,197       0.681           9IS      0.650           77a
1990                  4,679       6,335        1,656       0.630         i,043      0.596           987
1991                  4,008       6,969        2,161       0.583         1,261      0.547         1,182
I912                  4,949       7,666        2,717       0.540         1,468      0.502         1,363
1993                  5,104       8,432        3,328       0.500         1,665      0.460         1,532
I14                   5,275       9,276        4,001       0.463         1,853      0.422         1,6S0
1995                  5,463      10,203        4,740       0.429         2,033      0.318         1,637
1996                  5,670      11,223        5,553       0.397         2,208      0.256         1,974
1997                  S,898      12,346        6,440       0.36a         2,371      0.326         2,103
1"9                   6,149      13,580        7,432       0.340         2,530      0.299         2,224
23                             -221.82 Z                  17,221                   15,649
FIRR                     117Y                     nf
IOIAL     ANNUAL      ANNUAL       ANNUAL     OISCOUIII  PRESENT        ISCOWI   NESENT
rEAR    INVESTKENT  OPERATING   OPEtATING    NET CASH    FACTOR    VALUE OF    FACTOR AT VALUE OF
COSTS      COSTS     IME           INFLOW        Al   Il  ETFLOI          9S       ETFleON
(OUTFLOI)              AT I2                   AT 19
(1)       (2)         (3)          (4)   (SJ (4)H(2-(3)       (6)   (7):(5)X(6)       (8e   (9):(5)(o)
1994       1,225                               -1225        1.000        -1225      1.000         -1225
1905       1,210                               -1120       0.926         -1220      0.917         -11(0
1996           0                                   0       0.857             0      0.942             0
1997      11,380                              -1130        0.794         -9034      0.772         -1737
1908                  1,406       1,414        -2692       0.735         -1979      0.7e0         -1907
1999                  4,562       1,537        -3025       0.681         -2059      0.650         -I96"
1990                  4,679       1,671        -3009        0.630        -1096      0.5%9         -1794
1991                  4,809       1,816        -2990       0.503         -1746      0.547         -1637
I992                  4,949       1,961        -293        O.S40         -1614      0.502         -1499
1"3                   5,104       2,119        -2996        0.500        -1494      0.460         -1375
1"4                   5,275       2,29         -2917       0. 43         -1384      0.422         -1262
19s                   5,463       2,4)1        -2992       0.429         -12T3      0.3O          -1160
1(6                   S,670       2,668        -3002       0.397         -(192      0.256        -'167
1997                  5,899       2,982        -3016       0.36x         -1109      0.326          -9U4
19"9                  6,149       3,112        -3036       0.340         -1034      0.299          -908
13,915                                     EtR               -28167                    -2601
Flit                  Nll                      WV
NOTE: Actual ijestwent cost as of Narcb I. Ptriod of aalysis start e  in  14 as per atal disbursteant.
NO  is based on SPAR projections and is asneud to increase annuadly by 101 while data for incem  is based so 19.
actual collection and is assmed to increase aiually by 9  based on projected growt  in SPAR.



38
Annul In
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
financial Evaluation of Rus Teroinal Project (SAR)
Oavao City
(ip000)
TOTAL     ANNUAL       ANNUAL       ANNUAL      DISCOUNT   PRESENT       DISCOUNT   PRESENT
YEAR    INVESTNEMT  OPERATING   OPERATING    NET CASH       FACTOR    VALUE OF      FACTOR AT  VALUE OF
COSTS      COSTS      INCOHE        INFLOW       AT 101    HETFLOV          II      HETFLOU
(OUTFLOW)               Al 101                   AT IIS
(1)       (2)          (3)          (4)   IS):(4)-(21-(3)       (6)   (7):(5)X(ol        (8)   (9h(5)X(8)
1982         180                                  -180        1.000         -180       1.000           -180
1983       1,820                                -1,820       0.909        -1,655       0.901        -1,640
1984       5,660                                -5,660        0.826       -4,678       0.812         -4,594
1985                   1,840       2,100           260        0.751          195       0.731            190
198c                   1,920       2,400           480        0.683           328      0.659            316
1987                   2,020       2,750           730        0.621           453      0.593            433
1988                   2,300       3,150           850        0.564          400       0.535            4S4
1989                   2,410       3,600         1,190        0.513          611       0.482            573
1990                   2,550       4,120         1,570        0.U67           732      0.434            681
1991                   2,690       4,710         2,020        0.424          857       0.391            790
1992                   2,870       5,390         2,520        0.386          972       0.352            888
1993                   3,050       6,160         3,110        0.350         1,090      0.317            987
1994                   3,240       7,050         3,810        0.319         1,214      0.286          1,089
7,660                                 10.971                   419.37                   -12.04
FIRI                      NHF                       HPV
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Financial Evaluation of Livelihood Project (PCI)
Davao City
(P'000)
TOTAL     ANNUAl.      ANNUAL       AHNUAL      DISCOUT   PRESENT        DISCOUNT   PRESENT
TEAR    IHYESTIENT  OPERATING   OPERATING    NET CASH        FACTOR    VALUE OF      FACTOR AT  VALUE OF
COSTS      COSTS      INCOHE         INFLOW      AT 10    NETFLON           III     NEIFLON
(OUTFLOW)               AT 101                   AT IIS
(1)       (2)          (3)                 (S):(4)-(2)-(3)      (6)   (7):(5)X(6)         (8)   (9):(5)X(9)
1995      11,212                                  -11,212    1.000         -11,212     1.000        -11,212
1986                                                     0    0.909              0     0.901              0
1987                                                     0    0.826              0     0.812              0
1988                                                     0    0.751              0     0.731              0
1989                                                     0    0.683              0     0.659              0
199                    1,534         3,510           1,976    0.621          1,227     0.593          1,173
1991                   1,876         3,710           1,834    0.564          1,035     0.535            981
1992                   2,064         3,710           1,646    0.513            845     0.482            793
1993                   2,270         3,710           1,440    0.467            672     0.434            625
1m4                    2,497        3,710            1,213    0.424            514     0.391            474
I1s                    2,747         4,791          2,044    0.396             788     0.352            720
1996                   3,021        4,791            1,770    0.350            620     0.317            561
1997                   3,323         4,791           1,468    0.319            46"     0.286            419
11,212                                    2.151                -5042.66                 -5465.76
FiRk                     NMl                      Nf
NOTE: Actual investmnt costs as of lArch 1992. Period of anlysis started in 195 as per actual disbursemnt.
HOE data is based  an projection in MAe  17 of nC. 1990 1 1           art actual expeses.
Incowe for 1990 11991 are actual data.  Amiex 17 shouts the income projtction from 1992



39
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Evaluation of Agdao Market Project (SAR)
In Davao City
(P'000)
TOTAL     ANNUAL       ANNUAL         ANNUAL      DiSCOUNT   PRESENT        DISCOUNT   PRESENT
YEAR    INVESIMENT  OPERATING   OPERATING    MET CASH          FACTOR    VALUE OF       FACTOR AT  VALUE oF
COSTS       COSTS      INCOME         INFLON        AT 91    NEFLOV            91       NETFLOY
(OUTFLO0)                Al 91                     AT 91
(1)        (2)          (3)           (4)   (5):(4)-(2)-(3)       (6)   (7):(S)X(6)          (8)   (9):(5)x(e)
1993        1,030                                  -1,030       1.000       -1,030        1.000       -1,030
1984          998                                    -998       O.96          -924        0.917         -'116
1985        1,073                                  -1,073       0.857         -920        0.842         -903
1936       62,20                                   -6,220       0.794       -4,939        0.772       -4,203
1987       11,947                                 -11,947       0.735       -8,791        0.700       -8,464
198s                    4,562        5,759          1,197       0.681          915        0.650           779
199                     4,6,79       6,335          I,0S6       0.630        1,043        0.596           997
1990                    4,008        6,969          2,161       0.583         1,261       0.547         1,182
1991                    4,949        7,666          2,717       0.540         1,468       0.502         1,363
1992                    5,104        9,432          3,329       0.500         1,665       0.460         1.532
1993                    5,275        9,276          4,001       0.463         1,853       0.422         1,690
1994                    5,463       10,203          4,740       0.429        2,033        0.388         1,837
1995                    5,670       11,223          5,553       0.397        2,205        0.356         1,947
1996                    5,899       12,346          6,448       0.368        2,371        0.326        2,103
1997                    6,148       13,SW           7,432       0.340         2,530        0.299        2,224
21,268                                  9.58S                   651.44                    -443.36
FIll                       NPV
REGIONAL CIfIES DEVELO?ElNF PROJECr
Financial Evaluation of Agdao Market Project (PCI)
In Oavao City
(P'000)
TOTAL     ANUAL         ANNUAL        ANIUJAL     DISCOUNT   PIESENT        DISCOUNT   PRESENT
YEAt    INVESTMENH  OPERAIING   OIEIATING    MET CASH          FACTOR    VALUE OF        FACTOR AT  VALUE OF
COSTS       COSTS      INCOE          INFLOW         AT 8S    METFLW            91      NETFLOW
(OUTFLOW)                AT 8I                     AT 91
(1)       (2)           (3)            (4)  (5) (4)-(2)-(3)        (6)   (7):(5)I(6)         (8)   (q):(5JX(9)
1990       11,1                       6,103         -11,199     1.000        -11,599       1.000        -11,199
199        16,562        7,058        6,713         -17,517    0.926          -16,219      0.917        -16.071
192                      7,764        7,385          -1,051    0.857             -90I      0.842           -894
1993                     8,540        8,123          -1,156    0.794             -917      0.772           -m
14                      9,394        9,342           -1,271    0.735            -934      0.708           -900
19S                     10,334       10,743             -92    0.681             -675      0.650           -645
I96                     11,367       11,367             -624    0.630            -393      0.596           -372
1997                    12,504       12,354             -149    0.583             -87      0.547            '82
I9e                     13,754       14,825            1,071    0.540             579      0.502            538
1999                    15,129       17,790           2,661    0.s50            1,331      0.460          1,225
2000                    16,642       21,348            4,706    0.463           2,190      0.422          1,93
2001                    18,307       27,752            9,446    0.429           4,051      0.388          3,661
2002                    20,137       36,078           15,94!    0.397           6,330      0.356          5,668
2003                    22,151       46,902           24,751    0.368           9,101      0.326          8,073
2004                    24,366       60,972           36,686    0.340          12,463      0.m29         10,954
-- - - --                           --- - - - -              -  - - ---  - --. .--   -- --       - -
27,760                                      9.321                 4,709.07                  1,061.46
Fill                     WY                         1km
NOTE: Actual investet cost as of Narck Im. Priod of aual,sis Started ia Isse AS per actul disursliat.
oE data is based on projectios in Amei 12 of nI.
Income (1"1) is actual data.  Arui  12 shms the projected ratt of iKrtase in incee from  1M1.



40
RECIONAL CITIES DEVELOtPMENT PROJECT
Financial Evalualion of Slaughterhouse Project ISAR)
In Davao Cita
(P'OOO)
TOTAl    AMAAl         ANNUAL        ANNUAL      DISCOUINT   PRESENT       DISCOUNT   PtESENT
YEAR    INVESTMENT  OPERATING   OPERATING    NET CASH         FACTOR    VALLIE OF     FACTOt Al  VALUE OF
costs      COSTS    I[E              INFLOW       Al 221    wTFLOV            231     NETFLO
lOUTFLOW)               AT 222                    A! 23Z
(13       (2)          (31           (4)   (S):(4)-(2)-(3)       (6)   (7):(S)X(6)         (8)   (9):(5)X(9)
1982       3,050                                  -1,050       1.000      -1,050         1.000       -1,050
1993       41,070          70                     -4,140       0.820       -3,393       0.913        -3,366
1984       4,760          640                     -5,40        0.672       -3,629       0.661        -3,569
1985                    4,190        4,960           670       0.551          369       0.537            360
3996                    4,440        5,030           590       0.451          226        0.437           258
1987                    4,720        5,220           Soo       0.370          185        0.355           178
1998                    5,240        7,190         1,950       0.303          591        0.289           563
lm                      S,920        7,460         1,540       0.249          383       0.235            362
1990                    6,330        7,730         1,400       0.204          295       0.191            267
199L                    6,770       10,620         3,850       0.L67          643       0.155            s97
12                     7,260       11,010         3,750       0.137          513       0.126            473
1993                    7,800       11,420         3,620       0.112          406       0.103            371
1994                    9,400       15,69          7,290       0.092          671        0.083           606
1995                    9,050       16,310         7,260       0.075          547        0.068           492
1996                    9,770       16,960         7,090       8.062          438       0.5ss            391
1997                   10,560       21,110        10,550       0.053          534        0.045           473
IS99                   11,430       23,950        12,520       0.042          520        0.036           456
199                    12,390       24,840        12,450       0.034          424        0.030           369
2000                   13,440       34,920        20,850       0.028          582        0.024           502
2001                   14,600       35,560        20,960       0.023          479        0.020           410
2002                   IS,ON        36,.08        21,000       0.019          394        0.016           334
2003                   15,810       46.660        30,s95       0.015          474        0.013           3ss
2004                   17,350       46,200        28,850       0.013          363        0.011           34N
------              ------       - ---.-..- -- -----                            - ----^- -- -- ----
9,990                                 23.251                   996.37                     192.46
FIRI                      N,"                        WVb
--------  - ------ -------- -- - ----- -------- -------- -------- ---- - --- --- 4  -- -------- -------- --------



4J.
REGIONAL CIIIES DEYELOnlENT PROJECT
Financial Evaluation of Slaughterhouse Project (PCR)
In Davao City
(P'OOD)
TOTAL     ANNUAL       ANNUAL       ANNUAL      DISCOUNI   PRESENT       DISCOUNT   PRESENT
YEAR    INVESINENT  OPERATING   OPEIATIIG    NEI CASH        FACIOR    VALUE OF      FACTOR A!  VALUE OF
COSTS      COSTS      INCONE         INFLOW       Al 81    NETFLOW           91      NEKTFLO
(OUTFLOW)               AT el                    Al 91
(1)       (2)          (3)            (4)  (5):(4)-(2)-(3)      (6)   (7):(5)X(i)        (81   (9):(5)X(8J
1986       1,901                                   -1,901    1.000         -1,091      1.000         -1,901
1987                                                    0    0.820               0     0.813              0
1988                                                    0    0.672               0     0.661              0
1989                                                    0    0.551               0     0.537              0
1990      19,210                                  -19,120    0.451         -9,631      0.437         -8,353
199!                    3, "7       4,739             742    0.370             275     0.355            264
1992                    7,993       12,600          4,607    0.303           1,397     0.289          1.330
1993                    8,192      12,600           3,808    0.249             947     0.235            994
1994                    9,672      12,600           2,9M      0.204            597     0.191            559
1995                   10,639      16,758           6,119    0.167           1,022     0.155            950
1996                   11,703       16,758          5,055    0.137             692     0.126            638
1997                   12,873       16,758          3,885    0.112             436     0.103            399
1998                   14,160      22,288           9,128    0.092             748     0.083            678
1999                   15,576      22,288           6,172    0.075             506     0.068            455
2000                   17,134      22,289            5,514    0.062            319     0.055            284
2001                   18,847       29,643          10,796    0.051            547     0.045            484
2002                   20,732      29,643           8,911    0.042             370     0.036            325
2003                   22,805      29,643           6,838    0.034             233     0.030            203
2004                   25,085       39,425          14,340    0.028            400     0.024            345
2005                   27,594       39,425          11,831    0.023            271     0.020            232
2006                   30,353       39,425          9,072    0.019             170     0.016            144
2007                   33,399       52,435          19,047    0.015            293     0.013            246
2008                   36,728      52,435          15,708    0.013             198     0.011            165
21,021                                   20.341               -1,141.11                  1,160.32
FIRI                      NtY                      NtY
NOTE: Actual investment cost as of Ibrch 1992.  Period of analysis started in 1986 as per actual investment.
IOE data is based on projection in Annei 15 of PCR.
Incose (1991) is actual data as per Annte IS of PCI, the rest of the income data is
based on projection in Annez IS of PCR.



42
REGIONAL ClTES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Eyailuation of Market Project iSPAR)
Cagayan de Oro City
(P'000)
TOTAL     ANNUAL       AUAL         ANNUAL      DISCOUNT   PRESENT       DIscoUNT   PRESENT
YEAR    INYESTNENT  OPERATING   OPERATING    NEI CASH       FACTOR    VALUE OF       FACTOR AT  VALUE OF
cosrs      cosrs    INCONE           [MELON      AT 221    NETFLOS          23;    NETFLO
(OUTFLOW)               AT 221                   AT 23;
(3)       (2)          (3)           (4)   (5):()-(2)-(3)       (6)   (7) :5)X(6)        (8)   (9):(5)X(8)
1982         160       4,420       2.400         -2180        3.000        -2180       3.000          -2180
1983       3,690       8,610       3,550         -8750       0.893         -7813       0.885          -7743
2984       3,210       8,890       6,810         -S290        0.797        -4217       0.783          -4143
1985                   6,820       7,630           810        0.712           577      0.693            s61
1986                   7,220       a,sso         1,330        0.636          845       0.613            816
1987                   7,660       9,580         1,920        0.567         1,089      0.543          1,042
1918                   8,160       10,730        2,S70        0.507         1,302      0.480          1,234
1989                   8,720       12,020        3,300        0.452         1,493      0.425          1,403
1990                   9,350       13,460        4,210        0.404         1,660      0.376          1.546
2991                  10,050      15,080         5,030        0.361         1,814      0.333          1,674
1992                  10,830       36,890        6,060        0.322         1,951      0.295          1.785
1993                  11,710       18,920        7,210        0.287        2,073       0.261          1,880
1994                  22,690      21,390         8,500        0.257         2,182      0.231          3,963
7,060                                 12.821                   775.81                   -163.64
FlRR                                   FIRR                      WY                       NfY
REGIONAL CITIES DEYELOPMNT PtOJECI
Financial Evaluation of Market Project (SPAR)
Cagayan doe Oro City
(P'000)
rOrAL     ANU          ANNUAL       ANUAL       DISCOUiT  PRESENT        DISCOUNT   PRESENT
YEAI    INVESTMENT  OPEIA1ING   OPERATING    NET CASH        FACTOt    VALUE OF      FACTOR AT  VALUE OF
COSTS      COStS       ICOIME        INFLOt      Al 221    METFLOW           231     NETFLON
(OUTFLOV)               AT 22!                   Al 231
(3)       (2)          (3)           (4)   (5):(4)-(4 )-(3)     (6)   (7):(5)X(6)         (8)   (9):(5)x(9)
3987       6,143       2,305       2,438         -6280        1.000         -6280      1.000          -6200
1988       1,043       2,533        3,024         -522        0.893          -493      0.885           -489
1999           0       2,794        4,539        1,755        0.797         2,399      0.783          1,374
299        2,823       4,096       6,279          -640        0.712          -456      0.693           -444
3l9        6,290       3,900       6,711         -3479        0.636         -2221      0.613          -2134
1392       1,llo       4,251       8,053         2,692        0.567         1,529      0.543          1,461
193                    4,634       9,664         5,030        0.507         2,548      0.400          2,416
1994                   5,051      13,597         6,546        0.452         2,961      0.425          2,782
1995                   5,505       23,936        8,411        0.404         3,397      0.376          3,164
1996                   6,001       16,69        10,698        0.361         3,858      0.333          3,561
3997                   6,541      20,039        13,491        0.322         4,346      0.295          3,976
199                    7,129      24,047        16,917        0.287         4,863      0.261          4,t40
1999                   7,773      29,656        21,095        0.257         5,412      0.231          4,664
17,679         92           201            31.111             20972.45                   18663.96
Fill                  NIF                       Nfl
MOTE: Atual investment cost a5 of March 1992. Period of analysis started in 2987 as per actual disbursement.
See also KCR Anio I.p.l






I



