Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLYF
F ILE COP.Y
Report No. P-3380-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$67.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 11, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Peso (P)
US$1             =    P 9.0
Pesos 1          =   US$0.1111
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPO    -  City Project Office
MED    - Municipal Enterprise Department
MHS    - Ministry of Human Settlements
MLG    - Ministry of Local Government
MOB    - Ministry of Budget
MOF    - Ministry of Finance
MOTC   - Ministry of Transportation and Communications
MOTI   - Ministry of Trade and Industry
MPWH   - Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NEDA   -  National Economic and Development Authority
NHA    -  National Housing Authority
RCDPO  -  Regional Cities Development Project Office
SIR    -  Slum Improvement and Resettlement
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:    The National Housing Authority (NHA), and the cities of
Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro, Davao and Iloilo (project cities).
Amount:            $6/.0 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:             ZO years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:  The equivalent of $21.4 million and $21.5 million of the loan
proceeds would be relent by the Government to NHA and the
project cities, respectively, at 13% for 20 years, including
5 years of grace. The loan balance (excluding the
capitalized front-end fee of $0.5 million) would be provided
to various Government agencies as budgetary allocations. NHA
and the project cities would pay the standard commitment fee
and front-end fee on their portions of the Bank loan. The
Government would absorb interest rate variations, and would
bear the foreign exchange risk for the entire Bank loan.
These relending arrangements are justified in view of the
need to avoid administrative complications and to facilitate
the cities financial planning efforts which are now being
enhanced. Also, based on projected rates of inflation during
the project implementation period, the proposed relending
rate of 13% would be positive in real terms.
Project
Degcription:      The proposed project is the first multi-sectoral urban
project in support of the Government's regional development
strategy. The project aims at reducing infrastructure
bottlenecks to economic development in the project cities,
providing basic urban services, and improving the project
management capabilities of the cities and the participating
Government agencies. The project includes: (a) construc-
tion, rehabilitation or upgrading of urban roads and the
provision of road maintenance equipment and vehicles;
(b) improvements in drainage, solid wastes management and
sanitation; (c) provision or upgrading of municipal enter-
prise facilities including markets, slaughterhouses, bus
terminals and a livelihood zone; (d) improvement of shelter
conditions through the provision of about 16,500 serviced and
upgraded plots benefitting about 133,000 people, about 660
serviced plots for small businesses generating employment for
about 6,500 people, and building materials loans for
residential structures; and (e) technical assistance for
project implementation, institutional strengthening and
preparation of future projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 1
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The project's main risks are related to management and
coordination of implementation, and possible poorer than
anticipated improvements in municipal revenues. Prov:Lsion of
technical assistance and other measures proposed under the
project to strengthen the involved institutions and to
improve city collection systems and revenue bases are,
however, expected to minimize these risks.
Local   Foreign  Total
Estimated Cost: /                                          ---- ($ million) -----
Streets and road maintenance            9.5     8.0    17.5
Drainage and sanitation                 4.8     5.6    10.4
Municipal enterprises                   7.0     2.8      9.8
Shelter                                15.9     5.6    21.5
Land                                    8.0       -      8.0
Technical assistance and training    5.6        8.4    14.0
Subtotal                         50.8    30.4    81.2
Physical contingencies                  4.5     2.7      7.2
Price contingencies                    l6.Z     9.5    25.7
Total Project Cost               71.5    42.6   114.1
Front-end fee on Bank loan                -     0.5      U.5
Total Financing Required         71.5    43.1   L14.6
Financing Plan:
Bank loan                             27.7    39.3    67.0
Government                             32.3     -       32.3
Project Cities                         11.5     -       11.5
Urban Engineering Loan (2067-PH)        -       3.8      3.8
Total                            /1.5    43.1   1L14.6
Estimated
Disbursements:             Bank FY   1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989   1990
-------       ($ million) ----------------
Annual              1.3   6.3  16.9  20.4  17.1   4.0    1.0
Cumulative          1.3   7.6  24.5  44.9  62.0  66.0   67.0
Rate of Return:    27% (weighted average of components comprising 62% of
total project costs).
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 4094-PH, dated March 10, 1983.
Map:                IBRD-16595
/1 Excluding identifiable taxes and duties from which the project is
exempted.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $67.0 million, to
help finance a regional cities development project. The loan would be repaid
over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The equivalent of $21.4 million and $21.5 million of the loan proceeds
would be relent by the Government to NHA and the project cities, respectively,
at 13% for 20 years, including 5 years of grace. The loan balance (excluding
the capitalized front-end fee of $0.5 million) would be provided to various
Government agencies as budgetary allocatiions. NHA and the project cities
would pay the standard commitment fee and front-end fee on their portions of
the Bank loan. The Government would absorb interest rate variations, and
would bear the foreign exchange risk for the entire Bank loan. The relending
arrangements are justified in view of the need to avoid administrative
complications and to facilitate the cities' financial planning efforts which
are now being enhanced. Also, the proposed relending rate of 13% is expected
to be positive in real terms given the anticipated inflation rates in the
Philippines.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Selected Issues for
the 1983-87 Plan Period" (No. 3861-PH), was distributed to the Executive
Directors under Sec.M82-542, dated June 16, 1982. A special report, "Aspects
of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment" (No. 2984-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1, 1980 under Sec.M80-919.
Country data are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, the economic performance of the Philippines
improved considerably, raising the GNP growth rate to almost 7% at the end of
the decade. The ratio of fixed investment to GNP rose from 16% to 25% during
this period. Half of this increase was in the public sector; the ratio of
public fixed investment to GNP rose from 1.5% to 6.5% during the decade,
reflecting substantially expanded revenues and improved implementation
capacity. Export growth was accelerated, particularly in nontraditional
manufactures, while growth in imports of oil and consumer goods was
restrained. Overall, expansion in agricultural production was quite rapid,
and rice deficits were eliminated in the second half of the decade.
Population growth slowed in the 1970s. However, the economy still has a
number of structural problems. Most important, the efficiency of investment
has been low, particularly in manufacturing industry producing for the
domestic market; industrial employment has not expanded rapidly enough; and
poverty is still widespread.



4.        The structural problems of the Philippine economy are reflected in
the balance of payments. Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were
more than offset by a sharp deterioration of the Philippines' terms cof trade
since 1975, stemming from the oil price increases, accelerated international
inflation, and depressed prices for major export commodities. Consequently,
the Philippines has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the
imports needed to maintain growth and investment levels.
Recent Economic Developments
5.        The structural problems of the Philippine economy have been
greatly exacerbated by the 1979 oil price increase and the ensuing
international recession. Given its production structure, the Philippines
was severely affected by the fall in commodity prices. The increased debt
service put an additional strain on the balance of payments. Real GNP
growth decreased to an estimated 2% in 1982. Agriculture continued to
perform satisfactorily, but industrial sector growth deteriorated markedly.
Recessionary conditions and a liquidity crisis in the financial sector in
1981 restrained private investment, although this was partially offset by a
further expansion of public fixed investment to around 8% of GNP in 1980-82.
The Philippine economy also suffered from a temporary acceleration in the
inflation rate, which rose from 7% in 1978 to around 17% in 1979/80 before
moderating to 10% in 1982. All these factors put significant constraints on
the development effort. Real income per capita appears to have fallen,
further aggravating the serious poverty problems.
Development Strategy
6.        To increase economic growth while holding the external deficit at a
sustainable level, further structural adjustment will have to be achieved
in the Philippine economy. The Development Plan of the Philippines for the
period 1983-87 reflects the need for structural adjustment. The Plan
outlines as the principal elements of the growth strategy: (a) efficient
exploitation of agricultural potential for food, agro-energy, and export
crops; (b) manufacturing development along the lines of comparative
advantage, which would include primarily labor-intensive industries and
selected capital-intensive industries based on domestic raw materials;
(c) expansion of infrastructure necessary to support agricultural and
industrial growth; (d) import-substituting investments and effective demand
management in the energy sector; and (e) increased domestic resource
mobilization and more efficient resource utilization. On the basis of this
program, the Plan projects GNP growth to average 6.5% p.a. during the
five-year period. Equity aspects of development will be pursued through
emphasis on employment generation, a more balanced development among
regions, as well as increased public expenditures for education, health,
housing, and rural infrastructure.
7.        The Plan's objectives are broadly appropriate to the Philippines-
development problems, and, at the time of its drafting, the Plan's



- 3 -
quantitative targets appeared to be ambitious, but still attainable.
However, the recent adverse economic developments have made it very
difficult for the country to achieve the Plan targets. Short-term
demand-management problems have emerged, mainly as a result of the
international recession and its impact on the Philippine economy. Acute
public resource constraints have developed which will seriously limit public
investment growth. Moreover, the prospects for export growth are less
favorable than envisaged in the Plan, and projections of borrowing capacity
indicate that the country has to aim at a more rapid reduction in dependence
on foreign savings than originally envisaged. Even with a higher level of
domestic resource mobilization, growth of investment and imports will
probably be slower than projected in the Plan. Since the structural changes
will require a number of years to effect the needed improvements in the
efficiency of resource use, the economy is likely to grow at only 2-5%
during the next 2-3 years and not accelerate to 6.5% until after 1985.
However, even this outcome is dependent on a recovery in the external terms
of trade (para. 23).
Macro Issues for the 1980s
8.        As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the
1980s. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.
9.        Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.5% in 1980./1
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still straining available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for
the country's development. The Philippines has an active family planning
program which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. However, participation
in the family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the
n*umber of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
10.       Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains around 40%. Income distribution
continues to be very skewed, and a small elite is conspicuously wealthy.
Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the incidence of poverty
reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of people,
especially in the rural areas, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Annex I.



water, basic education and health facilities.  An increasingly unfavorable
man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal lands,
limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and the sharp
deterioration in the external terms of trade have put downward pressure on
real incomes. Although the Government instituted several programs during the
1970s that should directly improve the lives of the poor, most of these were
implemented on a large scale only toward the end of the decade, and will
require several years to achieve a marked impact. Key steps needed to
alleviate poverty wil be the development of rainfed agriculture, more
balanced regional development, rapid expansion of manufacturing employment,
continued improvement in basic public services, and further reduction of
population growth.
11.       Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, particu-
larly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the
labor force, and considerable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the
agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion
of new entrants to the labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in
the first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as
labor-intensive export production grew. Overseas employment, especialLy in
the Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary income opportu-
nity. As the absorptive capacity of the agricultural sector is limited,
employment generation in manufacturing will have to increase considerably in
the 1980s.
12.       Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investments
rose sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels,
the accompanying expansion of the economy s real output has been relatively
low. In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that,
on average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough. The low
efficiency and low labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the
distortive effects of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on the
allocation of capital. In view of tight resource constraints, the
efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determinants
of future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
13.       The Philippines- macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are
summarized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.
14.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the agricul-
ture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s, which is
quite high by international standards. The Philippines, once a chronic
importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and rice self-
sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. Production of fish and non-
traditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded



- 5 -
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of
critical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged
behind. Technologies to increase yields of corn have been developed only
recently, while multiple cropping systems are still at an early stage of
development. Productivity in the important coconut export sector remains
low because the recently introduced program to replace overage trees has not
yet attained rapid progress. Furthermore, population pressure on the arable
land is steadily increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been
logged over or settled is a serious problem.
15.       The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment. Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.
16.       While these programs have achieved considerable improvements, the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems. Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are
to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure ques-
tions, and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the
agencies concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce poverty among subsis-
tence fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.
17.       Industry.  Although industrial and trade policies were improved in
the early 1970s, manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as
GDP, and its growth pattern remained unsatisfactory during the decade.
Excessive protection and artificially low cost of capital have led to low
efficiency of investment and stagnation of manufacturing employment in
industries producing for the domestic market. The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s led to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which rose from about $50 million in
1970 to $2.4 billion in 1982. However, the export expansion has been
concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the rest of the
economy have been limited due to the high cost and low quality of domestic
inputs. Consequently, nontraditional manufacturing export industries have
developed as an outward-looking enclave in an otherwise heavily protected
economy.
18.       The objectives of the Government s industrial policy are to accel-
erate growth of output and employment, sustain the high growth of manufac-
tured exports, reduce import dependence of domestic industry, improve the
efficiency of investment, and promote industrial development outside the
Manila area. Since industries producing for the domestic market still
account for more than 80% of manufacturing investment, output, and employ-
ment, restructuring of home industries as well as continued export expansion



- 6 -
are needed to achieve these objectives. In 1980, the Government initiated a
series of fundamental policy reforms designed to improve the performance of
the industrial sector. The first phase of the adjustment program has
focused on trade and industrial policies which have been a primary cause of
low efficiency and suboptimal allocation of investment in the private
sector. The reform program aims at reducing protection through tariff
reform and liberalization of import licensing as well as strengthening
export promotion. The Government is implementing a second phase of reforms
that correct shortcomings of the industrial incentives and promotion system.
19.        Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the
Philippines- structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the
1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines.has made a considerable effort
to reduce its dependency on imported oil. The Government has not only
passed on oil price increases to consumers, but has also increased taxes and
levies on oil products with the result that domestic oil prices are
considerably above import parity. These price increases, combined with
direct conservation measures, resulted in a reduction of commercial energy
consumption. Steps to increase and diversify domestic energy supply have
also continued and include the development of hydroelectric, geothermal,
coal, and nuclear energy. Limited domestic petroleum production also began
in 1979. However, due to the long gestation period of energy projects,
domestic energy production still constituted only 17% of total commercial
energy supply in 1980. As part of its structural adjustment program, the
Government has prepared policy reforms in the energy sector which aim at
further reducing the country-s heavy dependence on oil imports, improving
the efficiency of energy use, and strengthening the self-financing of the
National Power Corporation.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
20.        Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s,
gross national savings expanded considerably, reaching 22.5% of GNP and
financing about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs
to rise by another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while
simultaneously limiting the current account deficit and the country s
reliance on foreign savings. In addition, interest rates and other finan-
cial incentives affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment,
the flexibility and competitiveness of the financial system, and the
maturity of lending all needed to be increased. Hence, in 1980-81 the
Government introduced a comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest
rates were substantially decontrolled, and revised monetary, fiscal, and
rediscount policies were introduced. Legislation to encourage multipurpose
banking was adopted to reduce the present excessive specialization and
fragmentation of the financial system and to increase competition.
21.        Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government raised the over-
all level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and increased the shares going
to economic services and investment. At the end of the decade, total
government expenditures had reached 18% of GNP, with public investment



- 7 -
equalling 6.5% of GNP. The expansion of public expenditures has made
possible improvements in basic infrastructure, particularly in transporta-
tion, power and irrigation, as well as expanded programs in urban develop-
ment, health and family planning. At present, the size of the public
investment program is appropriate, and its composition is, with a few
exceptions, broadly consistent with the country's development priorities.
22.        However, the current recession has highlighted the inherent
weakness of the Philippines public finances. Total public sector revenues
fell sharply from a level of 16% of GNP in recent years to 14% in 1982.
Although considerable tax legislation was passed in the last few years, this
did not prevent the already low tax ratio from falling further to 11% of GNP
in 1982. With the rapidly rising level of public investment, recurrent
expenditures had to be cut back from 12% of GNP in 1978 to only 9% in 1982,
which is inadequate to maintain the level of public services and provide for
maintenance of the existing capital stock. Despite this constraint on
recurrent expenditures, the public sector deficit, which traditionally has
been relatively small, increased to over 5% of GNP in 1982. Further tax
reforms are needed to raise the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve
its equity by increasing the proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes,
and to eliminate remaining distortions in economic incentives.
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
23.        The 1979-80 oil price increase and the ensuing worldwide recession
have considerably tightened the long-term balance of payments constraints
for the Philippines. The current account deficit widened from $1.2 billion
(4.9% of GNP) in 1978 to an estimated $3.2 billion (8.1% of GNP) in 1982.
This had two main sources. First, the Philippines- terms of trade fell by
28%. The increase in oil prices alone added $1.2 billion to the import
bill, although oil imports declined in volume terms. The steep drop in
commodity export prices was aggravated by a decline in export volume.
Second, interest payments increased more than four-fold to $1.4 billion in
1982. This reflected both a larger volume of external debt and a sharp rise
in interest rates on international capital markets (40% of the country's
debt carries variable interest rates). The only export category whose
earnings continued to expand was nontraditional manufactured exports which
increased to $2.4 billion in 1982. Another positive factor was the
sustained growth of migrant workers remittances. Accelerated structural
adjustments in the economy and the balance of payments have become essential
to hold the external deficit at a sustainable level. Considerable reforms
have already been introduced with respect to trade, industrial, financial
and energy policies (see paras. 18-20), but additional policy measures will
be needed in these areas as well as in public finance. However, policy
measures will require a number of years to effect the needed structural
improvement in the balance of payments. The current account deficit is
expected to gradually decrease to $2.0 billion by 1985 and remain at a
sustainable level of around 3% of CDP throughout the second half of the
decade.



- 8 -
24.       The current account deficits incurred after the oil price increases
were financed mainly by higher foreign borrowings, although international
reserves were also drawn down. Net disbursements of medium- and long-term
loans rose from $900 million in 1978 to $1.6 billion in 1982, and the
medium- and long-term debt outstanding reached $13 billion at the end of
1982./I The debt service ratio increased from 17% in 1978 to 24.6% in
1982./2 Substantial additional foreign capital will be needed during the
adjustment period. Gross external capital requirements are expected to
increase to $3.1 billion in 1985 and $4.5 billion in 1990 because of the
considerable repayment burden of debt contracted by the country during the
1970s. Nevertheless, the debt service burden should remain manageable; it
is forecasted to remain in the range of 22 to 25% during the second half of
the 1980s, dependent on anticipated improvements in export earnings.
25.       Official sources are expected to provide about 43% of the
Philippines- gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last
Consultative Group Meeting, held in June 1982, agreed that it would be
reasonable for the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA)
of about $1.2 billion during 1983, similar to ODA commitments sought for
1982.
26.       As noted above, some progress has been made in domestic resource
mobilization. However, because the deterioration in the terms of trade has
increased the Philippines external financing requirements, and many
projects planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary
resource transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs
of projects and non-project lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
27.       As of September 30, 1982 the Philippines had received 87 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $3,463.52 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled
$154.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and
outstanding is currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is
about 8%. These ratios are expected to increase to about 18% and 12%,
/1 Total external debt, including short-term debt and IMF obligations,
reached $17.7 billion at the end of 1982.
/2 Debt service ratio defined as ratio of amortization and interest
payments on medium and long-term debt to receipts from export of goods
and services during the same year. If debt service to the IMF and
interest payments on short-term debt were to be included, the debt
service ratio would increase to 20% and 30%, respectively.



- 9 -
respectively, by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank
loans, and IFC investments as of September 30, 1982 as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
28.        The volume of World Bank lending to the Philippines has increased
substantially from an average of about $90.0 million per year in FY71-75 to
an average of $450.0 million per year in FY78-82. Although the Bank has
financed projects in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular
emphasis has been given to agriculture, which has accounted for almost one-
third of total Bank/IDA lending. Lending for industry, transportation,
power, and social sectors followed in declining order of size. The sectoral
allocation of Bank lending remained fairly stable throughout the 1970s.
Pronounced changes took place only within infrastructure as lending for
transportation and power declined in the second half of the 1970s, while
lending for water supply and urban development was initiated during this
period.
29.        In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the irri-
gation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice production.
More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural production
through loans for tree-crops, livestock and fisheries, and to assist low-
income areas through integrated rural development projects. In the
industrial and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on
strengthening individual development finance institutions and on providing
for the credit needs of small and medium industries. In the last two years,
however, industrial and financial lending has been broadened to support the
implementation of needed policy reforms. A structural adjustment loan was
made in September 1980 in support of trade and industrial policy reforms.
Improvements in financial sector policies were the basis for the May 1981
Industrial Finance Loan, which also introduced a new institutional concept
to broaden the reach of Bank lending by channelling loans through an  apex
unit in the Central Bank. In the energy sector, while previous Bank lending
focused exclusively on the power subsector - through seven loans for power
generation/transmission and one loan for rural electrification - the Bank is
now supporting a broader range of activities in the energy sector, including
exploration and development of indigenous energy resources, provision of
supporting infrastructure, and strengthening of institutions. Energy policy
issues are also being addressed through structural adjustment lending.
30.        While overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than
anticipated. The disbursement ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal
year as compared to the total undisbursed at the beginning of the fiscal
year) declined marginally from about 18% in FY78 to about 16.7% in FY82./l
/1 Excludes disbursements under the Structural Adjustment Loan. If
included, the ratio increases to 21.8%.



- 10 -
The Bank-wide average was 21.5% in FY82; the comparable ratios for Thailand
and Morocco were 24.4% and 13.7% respectively in the same year./l Imple-
mentation problems increased in the late 1970s, reflecting in part, admin-
istrative problems caused by high inflation and tight budget constraints.
They also result from the changes in the scope of the Bank-s lending.
operations: a substantial increase in the number of projects, new areas of
lending, an emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach specific
target groups and deprived regions have all made implementation a more
demanding task than in the past. In recognition of growing implementation
problems, the Government and the Bank have instituted a process of joint
Country Implementation Reviews. Four reviews have been held between May
1980 and March 1983; the procedure is now fully institutionalized and will
be continued on a regular basis. As a direct result of these reviews we
have noted significant improvements in government regulations and procedures
governing budget releases and contracting. Another issue which has been
extensively discussed in these meetings is problems and delays in the
preparation and processing of disbursement withdrawal requests.  The
Government has recently established a small disbursement unit in the
National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and the staff of the unit
have been sent to the Bank for training.
31.       The Bank's future lending program has been designed to support
the major objectives of the Government's Development Plan (para. 6).  Par-
ticular emphasis is being given to poverty alleviation efforts and to
bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy.  Economic and
sector work is being closely integrated with lending operations. Additional
structural adjustment loans would support further policy reforms in trade,
industry, energy and other key sectors. In sectoral terms, agriculture and
rural development will continue to account for the largest share of lending,
with emphasis on food production and programs to increase the incomes of the
rural poor. Substantial assistance will be given to industry through
further subsector loans aimed at restructuring or developing specific
subsectors; through increased financial and technical assistance to small
and medium industries, particularly outside the Metro Manila area; and
through continued industrial finance projects utilizing the recently intro-
duced "apex" concept. Further support is also planned to develop domestic
energy resources and to strengthen the institutions responsible for develop-
ing and managing energy supplies. The Bank's support for projects in
education, water supply, and urban development, and possibly health and
family planning, will aim at improving basic services and creating employ-
ment, particularly in less advanced areas of the country.
32.       This is the fifth loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for Structual Adjustment,
Central Visayas Regional Development and Agricultural Credit have been
appraised and are scheduled for Board presentation in the coming months.
/1 Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs.



- 11 -
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urban Background
33.       The Philippines' urban population in 1980 was estimated at about
15.3 million people,/1 approximately one-third of the total population.
Metro Manila dominates the Philippines urban scene with approximately 6.4
million persons, or 42% of the total urban population. There are six
additional urban areas with populations greater than 200,000 and a further 20
centers with populations ranging from 100,000 to 200,000 persons./2 Between
1960 and 1980 the urban population more than doubled, increasing at an average
annual rate of above 3.6%, as compared to 2.7% for the total population.
Within the next 20 years the population of the Philippines will have grown to
approximately 77 million people. At least half of this added population is
likely to be absorbed in urban areas.
34.       The absolute urban poverty threshold for the Philippines in 1982 was
estimated at $295 (P2,660) per person. Approximately 32% of families in
urban areas and about 80% of families in typical slum areas of major cities
have per capita incomes below that level. Urban unemployment and under-
employment continue to represent serious problems and real incomes of the
urban poverty group appear to have stagnated or declined in recent years.
Government Priorities in the Urban Sector
35.       Regional Development.  Intermediate and smaller cities, and their
needs for infrastructure and industry have, in the past, been neglected as a
focus of national policy. This has led to a striking disparity in the
provision of economic and social infrastructure in different urban areas.
With a view to redressing this imbalance, the Government is placing greater
emphasis on regional investment planning and on strengthening the regional
institutional focus of line and staff agencies outside Metro Manila. Since
the mid-1970s, NEDA has been developing investment plans for each of the
regions. Partially as a result of these efforts more government attention has
been placed on achieving a more equitable distribution of government resources
among regions. However, difficulties in implementing a government budgetary
system based on agreed priorities is making the goal of balanced regional
development an elusive objective.
36.       Industrial Development.  The Government places a high priority on
increasing employment and industrialization to: (a) increase the nation-s
overall economic output, (b) reduce the highly skewed income profile,
(c) absorb surplus farm labor, and (d) improve its balance of payments
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Annex I.
/2 Many of these cities contain extensive rural areas within their
boundaries.



- 12 -
position. Broadly, the objective is to develop an efficient and competitive
industrial structure based on the country-s comparative advantage with respect
to labor costs and availability of raw materials. The provision of industrial
estates and export processing zones of various sizes along with improved
access to credit and technical assistance are key aspects of the Government's
program to promote industrialization. While one such estate/zone was
originally included in each of the four cities under the proposed project, it
was later decided that further studies of sectoral priorities and related
institutional and organizational aspects were required before undertaking
investments in additional large-scale estates/zones.
37.       Municipal Infrastructure and Services.  The Government has
recognized the need for substantial improvements in the provision of urban
infrastructure (most notably water supply systems and urban streets) and urban
services (such as solid wastes management and municipal markets). The
Government's efforts towards alleviating these deficiencies are concentrated
in the Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH) and its attached
corporations. More recently MPWH has established a program to assist
secondary cities in planning and developing their facilities and services
using principally local staff and financial resources./l The Local Water
Utilities Administration, created in 1973, has rapidly moved into a large
scale program of providing financing and technical assistance to local water
districts in urban areas outside Metro Manila.
38.       Shelter.  Virtually all Philippine cities have large squatter and
slum settlements which typically constitute between 20% to 35% of their total
population. These densely populated areas typically lack safe water supply,
drainage, human waste disposal, and public access. While the Government's
shelter programs have increased over the last few years, they still are not on
a large enough scale to prevent growth of slums. Since the creation of the
National Housing Authority (NHA) in 1975, a major reorientation of Government
shelter policy has been under way, moving away from squatter removal and
relocation and towards (a) improvement of existing slums and (b) servicing
urban land for low-income settlement. Several local governments are now
organized and staffed to prepare shelter projects in conjunction witlh NHA.
The Government established the National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
(NHMFC) in 1978 to provide a secondary market for home mortgages, thus further
strengthening the Government's role in supporting the sector.
39.       Urban Management.  Philippine cities and municipalities suffer
from a shortage of qualified professional/managerial staff and insufficient
levels of locally generated revenues to meet municipal infrastructure and
service deficiencies. The Ministries of Local Government (MLG) and of
Finance (MOF), among others, are assisting in developing the general adminis-
trative and financial mechanisms of local governments. These agencies, along
with MPWH with its technical expertise, are also strengthening their own
regional staffs to assist local governments.
/1 The program is entitled "PREMIUMED" (Program for Essential Municipal
Infrastructure, Utilities, Maintenance, and Engineering Development).



- 13 -
Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector
40.       In addition to five urban water supply and sanitation projects,
and an urban engineering loan, the Bank has to date made three loans in
support of urban development, mainly within Metro Manila. The first urban
loans to the Philippines (1272-T-PH/1282-PH), which became effective in
December 1976, concentrated on upgrading the environment of 160,000 persons
living in Tondo, the country's largest slum area, located in Manila. The
second urban loan (1647-PH), which became effective in April 1979, financed
a large sites and services project at Dagat-Dagatan also in Manila, and a
relatively modest sites and services and slum upgrading program in three
regional cities: Davao, Cebu, and Cagayan de Oro. The third urban loan
(1821-PH) became effective in September 1980 and addresses the provision of
basic needs and productivity growth of the low income families in Metro
Manila. This third project expanded upon the slum upgrading and sites and
services programs which started in Manila under the first two projects and
added the concept of low-cost secondary and tertiary infrastucture (roads,
drainage, utilities) within slum zones without encroaching on private
property. A complementary program called PROGRESS (Program for Removing
Sewage from Streets) financed as a part of a Metro Manila sewerage project
(Loan 1814-PH), seeks to upgrade the sanitation of these slum areas by
provision of facilities such as toilets and combined sewers.
41.       After initial delays, all three urban projects are now under way,
with the first project almost completed, and are providing a sound basis upon
which to expand the Government-s urban program. Favorable features of the
shelter portion of the first three projects to date include: (a) positive
beneficiary response to the programs; and (b) the willingness of families to
invest large sums in upgrading their dwellings (especially after tenure is
assured). The provision of secondary and tertiary infrastructure to provide
basic urban services to the urban poor in Metro Manila under the third urban
project is off to a good start. Results from the livelihood programs aimed at
supporting small-scale enterprises in the three urban projects are still
inconclusive. While there is clearly a demand for these programs, disburse-
ments have been slow. The principal difficulties with the urban projects to
date have been: (a) slow start-up, mainly due to land acquisition problems;
(b) less than satisfactory contractor performance and construction supervision
by implementing agencies on some components, resulting in cost overruns and
delayed completion; and (c) lagging collections from shelter beneficiaries due
to uncompleted works and absence of appropriate mechanisms and enforcement.
These difficulties are being addressed under the proposed project, through
measures aimed at strengthening the management and staffing of NHA and the
involved cities.
42.       Future Bank lending in the sector will continue to build on the
basic approach developed under the first three projects to provide basic urban
services and shelter at affordable costs. However, greater emphasis will be
placed on improving urban management, institution building, increased resource
mobilization, and on supporting cost recovery measures. The development of
national level intermediaries to channel funds and technical assistance to



- 14 -
local governments for planning, management and finance will be pursued as a
longer-term objective. In accordance with the government strategy for
decentralization, an increased proportion of lending would be devoted to
assisting cities and regions outside of Metro Manila.
The Project Cities
43.        The Government has selected four of the nation's largest cities -
Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro, Davao, and Iloilo - for its first major urban
intervention outside Metro Manila. These cities have urban populations
ranging from about 180,000 to 420,000 persons. The principal criterion for
selecting these cities was their considerable economic "take-off" poltential as
key regional centers. They also have an extensive slum population requiring
the provision of basic services. However, as their economies are not well
developed, and considering their relatively rich agricultural hinterLands, the
principal project strategy is to accelerate the economic development of these
cities by removing certain key infrastructure bottlenecks.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.        Preparation of the proposed project began in late 1979.  Based on
identification studies, which recommended major investments that wou:Ld over-
come infrastructure deficiencies, the Government proposed in early 1980 an
initial package of investments. Feasibility studies were undertaken during
the period March 1981 through April 1982 in the project cities, and related
detailed engineering was financed under the Urban Engineering Loan
(2067-PH)./l Appraisal took place in March/April 1982 and negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. from February 28 to March 4, 1983.  The Phi:Lippine
delegation was led by H.E. Benjamin Romualdez, Philippine Ambassador to the
United States. Staff Appraisal Report No. 4094-PH, dated March 10, 1983,
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III of this
report provides supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
45.        The main project objectives are: (a) to stimulate economic decen-
tralization and regional growth in the four project cities through reduction
of infrastructure bottlenecks; (b) to assist the cities in strengthening
municipal institutions, particularly in finance and implementation, and in
operating and maintaining urban facilities; (c) to strengthen further the
administrative abilities of MPWH and NHA in providing municipal infrastructure
and shelter, respectively; and (d) to improve basic social services including
shelter, public health, and urban mobility with particular emphasis on the
needs of the urban poor.
/1 This loan (see Report P-3150-PH) financed feasibility studies and detailed
engineering to prepare the proposed Regional Cities Development Project
and a proposed Central Visayas Regional Development Project.



- 15 -
46.       The project would include the following components:
(a) Urban transport ($28.6 million): provision of: (i) about 10 km of
new streets, about 32 km of upgraded or rehabilitated existing streets, and
limited traffic engineering measures; and (ii) improved road maintenance
capability, including a new maintenance depot in Davao, upgrading of existing
depots, and vehicles, plant, equipment and tools;
(b) Sanitation and drainage ($16.8 million): provision of: (i) solid
wastes management measures, including new dump sites, and vehicles and equip-
ment; (ii) improved sanitation measures, including equipment and civil works
in Iloilo and Bacolod; and (iii) drainage works, comprising about 25 km of
open or closed storm drains including laterals, and related maintenance
equipment;
(c) Municipal enterprises ($11.2 million): provision of: (i) six new
markets and 10 rehabilitated markets; (ii) two new slaughterhouses in Cagayan
de Oro and Davao; and (iii) two new bus terminals in Cagayan de Oro and Davao;
(d) Shelter ($38.4 million): provision of: (i) sites and services at
nine sites in the four cities with a total of about 9,580 residential plots,
including grant of tenure, infrastructure, sanitary, health, education and
community facilities, benefitting about 78,300 persons; (ii) slum upgrading
in ten different slum areas in the four cities, with a total of about 6,900
plots serving over 55,000 people, including grant of tenure, improved infra-
structure and sanitary facilities; (iii) about 660 serviced commercial/
industrial plots for small businesses generating employment for about 6,500
people; and (iv) loans for building materials for residential structures;
(e) Livelihood Zone pilot project ($2.9 million): establishment of a
mini-industrial estate in Davao on about 5 ha of developed land, with serviced
industrial plots, standard factory buildings and necessary offsite
infrastructure, to generate employment for about 1,200 people; and
(f) Technical assistance and training ($16.2 million, inclusive of
$2.3 million from the Urban Engineering Loan): About 1,385 man-months of
foreign (627 man-months) and local (758 man-months) consultants (i) to MPWH,
NEDA, NHA, and the project cities for assistance in project implementation,
including engineering services, and monitoring (220 man-months); (ii) to MOF,
MLG, and the project cities for institutional strengthening measures,
including introduction of improved records management systems, formulation
and implementation of a municipal training program, and equipment (104 man-
months); and (iii) to MPWH, MOTC, MOTI and NEDA for future project preparation
and related studies, including a comprehensive industrial estate subsector
study, a Metro Manila urban transport study, advisory services in national
transportation planning, detailed engineering for a proposed secondary cities
development project, and future project identification (1,061 man-months).
Implementation Arrangements
47.       The Project Steering Committee would act as the policy-making body
for the project. Overall project management responsibilities would be vested



- 16 -
in the Regional Cities Development Project Office (RCDPO), established under
NEDA, with the present Project Director from NEDA and the Assistant Director
(technical) from MPWH. At the city level, City Project Offices (CPOs), headed
by a City Project Manager, would be retained to handle day-to-day administra-
tive matters. The project would be implemented in the following four basic
programs, assisted by foreign advisory services for NEDA, MPWH, NRA and the
project cities to complement existing capabilities, and in accordance with
already signed project implementation memoranda of agreement between the
project cities and MLG, MPWH, NEDA, and NHA:
(a) Municipal Infrastructure (roads, road maintenance, drainage, solid
wastes management, sanitation): In each CPO, a city level engineering unit
under an MPWH Manager would be responsible for the design and construction of
MPWH- and city-financed municipal infrastructure. The engineering units have
been established and staffed by both MPWH and city personnel, all reporting
directly to the Manager.
(b) Municipal Enterprises (markets, slaughterhouses, bus terminals, and
a livelihood zone): The project cities administration would be responsible
for the implementation and subsequent management of these facilities as
municipal departments, with technical guidance from MPWH. To overcome the
present organizational and staffing deficiencies in managing municipal
enterprises, the cities would establish, no later than December 31, 1984,
Municipal Enterprise Departments (MEDs) with responsibilities, staff,
resources and policies satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.08(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The MEDs would be given increasing responsibilities in
overall administration, operation and maintenance, and in monitoring the
accounts and collection of fees. The livelihood zone in Davao is intended as
a pilot/demonstration project and was located in Davao in view of that city-s
clear potential for economic development and rapid growth. However, as the
related feasibility study has not yet been finalized, completion of an
acceptable feasibility study in support of this investment would be a
condition for disbursement against the livelihood zone component (paragraph
4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
(c) Shelter (slum upgrading, sites and services, and commercial/indus-
trial plots): The shelter components in the four cities would be implemented
under NHA/city joint venture arrangements similar to those existing under the
Slum Improvement and Resettlement (SIR) program in Davao and Cagayan de Oro,
which is supported by the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1647-PH).
NHA would provide qualified technical teams to assist the shelter units of the
CPOs in project implementation and training of city staff. The construction
and operation of the shelter component would be the responsibility of the SIR
teams, managed by NHA.
(d) Municipal Training: The municipal training program to strengthen
the cities project management skills and planning capabilities would be
administered by MLG's Bureau of Local Government Development. It would be
guided by a steering committee composed of representatives of MLG (Chair),
MPWH, MOF and the National Manpower and Youth Council.



- 17 -
Implementing Agencies
48.       Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH).  The former Ministries
of Public Works and of Public Highways were merged in late 1981. The new
Ministry has a close working relationship with city engineers who are
appointed by MPWI and are mandated to carry out selected construction and
maintenance functions funded by MPWH. In general, the Ministry is well
equipped to assume the proposed leadership role it would play in managing or
overseeing construction of a significant proportion of civil works under the
project.
49.       National Housing Authority (NHA) is the principal government agency
responsible for provision of shelter (sites and services and slum upgrading)
for low income families. Its programs to date have been largely financed from
corporate equity and relatively large amounts of long-term borrowings,
including bonds. Of the authorized capital of P 2,000 million, about
P 1,300 million have been paid in by the end of 1982. While NHA is expected
to generate a 15% return on its corporate equity, the actual annual return has
not recently exceeded 0.5%, primarily because of: (a) poor performance in
cost recovery on ongoing projects; (b) the undertaking of some uneconomical
"prestige" projects, and (c) the financing of shelter-related major
infrastructure and facilities on behalf of other agencies. Given the nature
of sites and services and slum upgrading, cost recovery is intrinsically
problematical. In addition, NHA's cost recovery efforts have lacked
commitment, and enforcement has not been systematic. NHA has therefore
initiated a series of measures to improve its financial position. Some of the
actions now being taken which would strengthen NHA's finances and would enable
it to start to revolve the funds available to it include (a) transferring the
cost of nonrecoverable investments to appropriate agencies; and (b) selling
mortgages to the National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (MHMFC) which
administers a secondary market for residential mortgages. In addition, it has
been agreed that under this project NRA would also take further steps to
implement a cost recovery program satisfactory to the Bank (para. 54(a)). It
was also agreed that in view of NILA's present financial constraints, the
counterpart funds required by NHA for this project would be provided by the
Government in the form of equity (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). In order to strengthen its organization and staffing, NHA has
undertaken certain measures to decentralize management and expand staffing.
During negotiations, it was agreed that by June 30, 1984, NHA would furnish
to the Bank a staffing study, completed in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and would employ qualified full-time senior staff to
be responsible for finance and for operations activities (Section 3.03 of the
draft Project Agreement).
50.       City Governments.  Management, operations and finances of all the
project cities are weak and need considerable strengthening. In recent years,
these local governments have relied increasingly on rapidly escalating
government grants rather than on local taxes to finance municipal services.
The level of capital expenditures for municipal services and shelter proposed



- 18 -
under this project far exceeds the capacity of these cities to finance from
available reserves and will have to be financed largely from borrowings. As a
result, annual debt service obligations would become significant. In addi-
tion, these cities are expected to increase their infrastructure maintenance
budgets by about 8% per annum in real terms. With this in mind, each local
government has implemented a series of measures to increase locally-generated
revenues, particularly through improved collection performance on existing
taxes, fees and charges. At negotiations, it was agreed that the property and
business tax collections and the tax rate on commercial and industrial pro-
perty would be increased to levels and in accordance with a timetable satis-
factory to the Bank (Paragraph 10 of Schedule 6 to the draft Loan Agreement).
The property tax collection ratio would be increased to 80% by 1984, business
tax collection is expected to double over -the project period, and the tax rate
on commercial and industrial property is expected to increase by 0.5% during
1983.  Also, to keep the cities  debt at manageable levels, it was agreed that
the Government would limit the borrowings of each project city to a level
which would not exceed the city-s debt servicing capacity (Section 4.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement). In addition, pricing policies for municipal enter-
prises would fully recover their capital and operating costs (para. 54 (b)).
MOF would monitor the operation and effectiveness of the pricing policies for
these enterprises. To support the development of the cities administrative
and project management capabilities, MLG, as chairman of the Joint Commission
on Local Government Personnel Administration, plans to recommend, by mid-1984,
an action plan regarding staffing levels, job descriptions, salary scales, and
key staff recruitment for city departments. To strengthen the cities opera-
tions and maintenance functions, a number of remedial measures are needed
including: (a) consolidation of equipment and vehicle maintenance functions;
(b) creation of traffic management units; (c) provision of adequate mainte-
nance budgets; and (d) initiation of training programs. The project cities
are presently preparing proposals to address specific issues in these areas.
During negotiations, it was agreed that each city would commence implementing,
by July 1, 1984, action programs satisfactory to the Bank for improvement of
their respective operation and maintenance of roads, drainage works arid
sanitation (Section 4.03 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total project cost, excluding duties and taxes from which the
project is exempted, is estimated at $114.1 million. This amount includes
physical and price contingencies and $3.8 million for detailed engineering and
technical assistance financed from the Urban Engineering Loan (para. 44). All
costs are expressed in April 1983 prices. Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 15% for all civil works except for slum upgrading and market
rehabilitations for which 20% has been included. Price contingencies are
included at 12% for 1983, 14% for 1984, 12% for 1985, 10% for 1986, arid 8%
thereafter for local costs, and at 8% for 1983, 7-1/2% for 1984, 7% for 1985
and 6% thereafter for foreign costs. The cost of technical assistance has
been based on an average of $12,400 per man-month for foreign consultants and
$3,400 per man-month for local consultants. These costs include fees, subsis-
tence, and international travel, but exclude price contingencies, vehicles,
local transportation, and equipment.



- 19 -
52.       The proposed Bank loan of $67.0 million would finance the capital-
ized front-end fee of $0.5 million and about 60% of total project costs, which
are not already financed through the Urban Engineering Loan. The loan would
cover the full foreign exchange cost estimated at $39.3 million and about
$27.7 million of local costs (about 39%). Local cost financing is justified
in view of severe domestic resource constraints (para. 26). The loan would be
made to the Government of the Philippines for 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, at standard variable interest rate. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk for the entire Bank loan and would absorb variations in
the interest rate for proceeds relent to NHA and the project cities at a
fixed rate. The proceeds of the loan would be made available by the
Government to the implementing agencies as follows:
(a) a loan of $21.4 million to NHA under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
to be onlent on the same terms to the project cities under an onlending
agreement between NHA and the project cities to finance the cities share of
the joint venture with NHA under the shelter component (para. 47(c) and
Section 3.02 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement); and a loan of $21.5 million to
the project cities for municipal infrastructure, municipal enterprises and
data processing equipment under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Section 3.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The above subsidiary loan and onlending agreements
would be on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, with repayment over
20 years, including 5 years of grace, and interest at 13% per annum. NHA and
the project cities would pay to the Government the standard commitment fee and
front-end fee on their portions of the Bank loan; and
(b) budgetary appropriation to MPWH ($10.5 million) for major municipal
infrastructure, and to various government agencies ($13.1 million) for techni-
cal assistance and training.
The balance of funds required for the project, excluding $3.8 million
available from the Urban Engineering Loan, would be provided as follows:
Government corporate equity to NHA ($15.6 million equivalent); Government
appropriations to MPWH ($16.7 million equivalent); project cities revenues
($1.5 million equivalent); and project cities borrowings ($10.0 million
equivalent, of which $4.7 million for municipal infrastructure as interest-
free loans repayable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, from the
Government and $5.3 million for municipal enterprises and building materials
loans from a Government-designated bank on prevailing commercial terms).
Signing of the subsidiary loan and onlending agreements would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b), (c) and (d) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
53.       The interest rates charged to the ultimate beneficiaries would be
13% for shelter and about 15% for municipal enterprises. These rates are
expected to be positive in real terms in light of the anticipated inflation
rate in the Philippines, ranging from 14% to 8%, during the project period.
The average interest cost for financing the shelter component under the joint
venture arrangements between NHA and the project cities, is about 11.4% as
NHA expects to generate 9% return on its equity participation.



- 20 -
Cost Recovery
54.        Pricing policies for shelter and municipal enterprises are designed
to make these components at least financially self-liquidating, with about
46% of total capital outlays directly recoverable through sale and lease of
land and facilities developed under these components. A further 15% of
municipal infrastructure works would be financed from increased municipal tax
revenues, leaving about 39% for national roads, main drainage, and technical
assistance to be borne by the Government. Cost recovery for specific project
components would be managed as follows:
(a) Shelter: The cost of land and development would be recovered from
beneficiaries through monthly plot charges on the lease/purchase of lots which
would amortize these costs at 13% for up to 25 years. Building materials
loans would be available at 13% for up to 15 years depending on the potential
life of the structure. Land developed within the contiguous shelter areas for
small-scale industrial or commercial use would be marketed at prevailing
(profitable) values. Sites and services under the project are designed to be
affordable to a target group which falls between the 12th and 70th income
percentiles; upgrading in slum and squatter communities is to be made
affordable down to around the 10th percentile. Cross subsidies available from
land developed within or adjacent to the shelter sites for small-scale
industrial and commercial use would be utilized in accommodating the Lower
income groups. During negotiations, it was agreed that NHA would, by December
31, 1983, begin implementing a cost recovery program satisfactory to t-he Bank
with respect to all of its sites and services and slum upgrading projects
(Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
(b) Municipal Enterprises: Rents, fees and charges for public markets,
slaughterhouses, bus terminals, and livelihood zone plots would be set at
levels at least sufficient to fully recover operating costs and amortized
capital costs at 15% nominal interest rate. During negotiations, it was
agreed that each project city would maintain its public enterprises as
financially viable entities through adequate costing systems and pricing poli-
cies, subject to an annual review of rents, fees and charges levied by its
municipal enterprises. By July 1, 1985 and each July 1 thereafter, each city
would furnish to the Bank for its review and comments the results of its
annual review and recommendations for adjustment of charges, if any, to be
implemented in consultation with the Government and the Bank (Section 3.08(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
(c) Solid Wastes Management: A fee would be levied on commercial and
industrial establishments as part of the local government s annual business
licensing process. Residential cost recovery would be achieved indirectly
through general municipal revenues.
(d) Sanitation Services: A service charge would be levied covering
about half of the costs, with the rest covered by general municipal revenues.



- 21 -
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Plant and equipment, including vehicles, totalling $6.2 million
equivalent, inclusive of contingencies, would be grouped in appropriate
bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation
of 15% or the import duty, whichever is the lower. Equipment and tools, in
packages less than $200,000 each and totalling up to $3.0 million, would be
procured under local competitive procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Miscellaneous items of equipment, materials and tools under contracts valued
at $15,000 each and up to an aggregate of $300,000, would be procured
following prudent shopping procedures satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank. Large civil works contracts for construction of roads, totalling about
$14.0 million, would be procured on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. The balance of construction, totalling $52.0 million, consisting
of minor works of estimated contract size less than $1.5 million equivalent
each distributed over the four cities, would be procured following local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Works totalling
about $2.0 million for rehabilitation of existing markets and minor traffic
management measures would be executed through force account due to the need to
work around existing operations on a very carefully phased program.
Individual contracts for markets, bus terminals and slaughterhouses estimated
to cost over $250,000 each, all bidding packages for other civil works
estimated to cost over $0.5 million equivalent each, and bidding packages for
goods over $200,000 equivalent each would be subject to prior Bank review.
56.       Disbursements would be made against: (a)  100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported goods; (b) 100% of ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured goods; (c) 65% of the cost of goods procured locally;
(d) 70% of the cost of civil works contracts for shelter, markets, slaughter-
houses, bus terminals, and the livelihood zone; (e) 45% of the cost of all
other civil works; and (f) 100% of the cost of technical assistance and
training. Disbursements for payments under contracts for minor civil works
(valued at less than P 1,000,000 each), and for civil works by force account
(market rehabilitation and minor traffic management measures) would be made
against statements of expenditure. Disbursements for force account civil
works would be based on agreed unit prices. The executing agency concerned
would retain, until one year after the Closing Date, supporting documents for
inspection by supervision missions (Section 4.02(b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment and Section 4.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement). The loan is
expected to be disbursed over about six and half years ending December 31,
1989. The disbursement period is shorter than the historical profiles of
eight years, due mainly to advanced preparation through the urban engineering
loan (para. 44) and the involvement of MPWH and NHA who are fully familiar
with the Bank-s procurement and disbursement procedures. Completion of an
acceptable feasibility study for the proposed livelihood zone would be a
condition for disbursement against this component (para. 46(e)). Loan
proceeds would not be used in disbursing against building materials loans.
Accounts and Audits
57.       Each project implementing agency (MPWH, NHA and the project cities)
would be responsible for maintaining detailed project accounts to be audited



- 22 -
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. In addition to
audited project accounts, NRA and the project cities would submit through
RCDPO audited annual final accounts covering their respective operations as a
whole. Separate opinions would also be given by the independent auditors
confirming that funds withdrawn under statements of expenditure have been used
for the purposes intended (Section 4.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement, and
Section 4.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
58.       The project would support the Government-s regional development
strategy by providing an adequate infrastructure base to support expanding
economic opportunities in four important cities. The project-s design has
been based on full commitment from the project cities to address existing
needs. The city officials have participated in project preparation discus-
sions, and supported all actions proposed for successful project implementa-
tion. Schedule 6 to the draft Loan Agreement spells out the main obligations
of the participating cities. The project would also strengthen the principal
institutions responsible for delivering, operating and maintaining urban
services. This latter objective would be accomplished partially by skills
developed through the project implementation experience and partially by
training programs offered as part of the project.
59.       Traffic and transport improvements would relieve congestion in the
central business districts, improve flows on heavy traffic routes, open up
access to new development areas, and reduce vehicle operating costs. The
rehabilitation of existing drainage systems would relieve severe flooding
which causes damage to property and public infrastructure. These improvements
would affect areas serving about 370,000 people in the four project cities.
New equipment and better management for removal of solid wastes would expand
service coverage to about 65% from about 30% at present in project cities.
Pilot sanitation schemes in Iloilo and Bacolod would improve groundwater
conditions in the service areas. Markets proposed under the project would
improve sanitary conditions, reduce spoilage, and increase employment and
business activity. The new slaughterhouses proposed under the project would
serve the daily local meat requirements and release existing centrally
located facilities for other higher value use. Bus terminals would reduce
traffic congestion in city centers and provide more convenient transfer
facilities for public transport patrons. The shelter component would
benefit over 133,000 persons in the project cities. This component wolald
(a) upgrade hasic services in depressed existing communities; (b) regularize
tenure; and (c) provide additional serviced residential land for low income
families thereby reducing squatter settlements in these fast growing cities.
Serviced land for industrial/commercial use within or adjacent to the
contiguous shelter areas would provide additional employment opportunities
(about 6,500 jobs) for these lower income communities. The economic rate
of return is estimated to be 30% for shelter, 27% for city streets, 23% for
slaughterhouses, 18% for markets, and 17% for bus terminals. Together these
components account for 62% of total project costs, and the weighted average
economic rate of return on these components is 27%. Principal quantifiable



- 23 -
benefits were increases in property values for shelter, increases in (or new)
rents and fees for municipal enterprises, and vehicle operating costs and
time savings for urban streets.
60.       The needs of the urban poor are addressed in part by all project
components and are specifically addressed in the slum upgrading and sites and
services components: (a) approximately 70% of the residents in slum areas
under the project are in the urban poor group; the slum upgrading program
would directly benefit 38,000 persons or about 22% of the urban poor residing
in slums in the four cities; and (b) approximately 39,000 persons or about 50%
of the beneficiaries of new sites and services projects would be the urban
poor; this program is expected to accommodate a further 21% of the urban poor
residing in slums across the four cities.
61.       The principal risk is the managerial capability of the local govern-
ments to implement a project which is larger and more complex than any that
they have undertaken before. MPWH's assistance in municipal infrastructure
and NHA-s assistance in the shelter component should substantially reduce the
risk of overextending the cities managerial capabilities. The establishment
of CPOs to focus each city-s energies on the project and the cities commit-
ments to hire and train additional key staff would further reduce this risk.
62.       A second risk is related to the project cities  ability to increase
general revenues and to implement satisfactory cost recovery measures on
revenue-generating project components to create additional funds. These
additional funds are needed not only to repay project loans but also to
provide for increased operation and maintenance budgets. To minimize this
risk, the MOF has established a unit to assist with and monitor the collection
of municipal taxes and fees, and to strengthen the staffing of those city
departments where cost recovery is important.
63.       A third risk is related to land acquisition, which has represented
a risk in all Philippine urban projects both from the standpoint of project
implementation delay and cost escalation. It is a particularly significant
factor in this project as most components require some land acquisition. To
reduce this risk, completion of negotiations for lands needed for commencing
construction during the first year of the implementation program (about half
of all project lands) or initiation of expropriation proceedings was a
condition for loan negotiations which was satisfactorily met. During
negotiations, it was also agreed that the Government would cause the project
executing agencies to acquire all land and rights in respect of land required
for the proposed project (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Environmental Aspects
64.       The project is expected to have a substantial net positive environ-
mental impact. The municipal infrastructure and the municipal enterprises
components are designed specifically to improve environmental conditions,
especially improved water quality and reduced disease risks in the project
cities.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
b5.       Lie dratt Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and NHA and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. In
addition to the special conditions listed in Section III of Annex III, signing
of the NRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government of the Philippines
and NHA, the NHA Onlending Agreement between NHA and the project cities, and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government of the Philippines and
the project cities would be additional conditions of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01 (b), (c) and (d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Completion of an
acceptable feasibility study for the proposed livelihood zone would be a
condition for disbursement against this component (paragraph 4(b) of Schedule
1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 11, 1983



ANNEX I
-25 -                                       Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             300.0                                   MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      109.0                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPlTA (USS)                    150.0        250.0     690.0                   890.1                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       146.8        272.3      329.4                   701.7                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPLULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27902.0       37540.0   49049.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3           32.9       36.2                    32.4                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          76.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           126.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         93.0        125.1      159.2                   255.9                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    282.4          361.0      438.2                  1748.0                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.6         45.5       44.1                    39.9                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                           52.4         51.6       52.8                    56.8                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.0          2.9        3.1                     3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.1          3.0        2.7                     2.3                      2.4
URBAN                                4.2          3.8        3.6                     3.9                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       45.5         38.5       34.1                    31.8                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       14.6           9.8       7.3                     9.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3         2.7        2.2                     2.0                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..       191.7      650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            2.0       37.0                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INUEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           102.0        101.0      113.0                   115.6                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     96.6         97.2      106.7/c                 106.4                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            45.0         47.5       52.0/c                  54.4                     66.0
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         16.6         18.7       20.4/c                  13.9                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        13.6          7.9       4.5                     6.7                      5.6
HEALTH  
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    52.8           59.0       63.5                    59.8                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            105.8         75.0       54.7                    63.7                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        24.0       43.0/d                  32.0                     65.6
URBAN                                 ..           ..       66.0/d                  51.9                     78.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       33.0/2                  20.5                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        57.0       56.0/d                  37.7                     59.3
URBAN                                  ..          ..       76.0/2                  65.7                     75.3
RURAL                                  ..          ..       44.0/d                  24.0                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..           ..    2809.4/c                8540.4                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..      3840.0    3173.1/c                 4829.4                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1229.3        838.6      568.7                  1047.5                    477.4
URBAN                              547.3        400.6         ..                   651.6                    679.8
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                  2597.6                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        30.0         ..                    27.0                     27.3
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.8          5.9
URBAN                                  ..         6.2
RURAL                                  ..         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..         2.3
URBAN                                 ..          2.1
RURAL                                  ..         2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               16.5         23.2       36.0
URBAN                                  ..        60.4       82.0
RURAL                                  ..         6.8       10.0



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
- 26 -
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0       114.0       98.0                   96.2                     104.3
MALE                  98.0        115.0         ..                   99.8                    106.4
FEMALE                93.0       113.0         ..                    92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  26.0        51.0       63.0                   37.6                      41.3
MALE                  28.0         52.0        ..                    41.1                     40.4
FEMALE                25.0        49.0         ..                    34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY)  14.3            8.9/e    33.9/c                  20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                             35.9        28.6       31.2/c                 35.5                      29.9
SECONDARY                           26.9/f      33.0       35.6/7                 25.0                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         71.9         82.6      75.0                    73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.1         7.4        8.8/g                  9.8                      42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          21.5        40.0       44.0                  116.5                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4        10.7       20.9                   37.6                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   17.4         13.4      20.3                    53.7                     63.7
CINiEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6/h          ..       7.5/d                   2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11117.5        13730.4   17412.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.2        33.1       32.3                   33.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0        53.0       46.0                   52.2                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  15.0        16.0       17.0                   17.9                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.8         36.6      35.5                    38.5                     33.6
MALE                                  52.1         48.6      47.6                    50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                                27.4         24.4      23.2                    26.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3       1.3                     1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        25.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     260.0                  194.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..     195.0                   155.1                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     266.0                   178.2                   518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     200.0                   164.9                   371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      32.0                   24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      41.0                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /e 1972; If L962; /g 1976; /h 1958.
May, 1982



- 27 -                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEF7ITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORtS
tones   Although the data ae dro  from scurces generally jodged the me-t authoritative and reliable, it should ase br noted tht Ictey   y  -ot be Inter-
nationally comparable hecansr of the lack of stadardi.ed definitiona and -c-opta oaed by ditff eret Io.ntrion ti  collecting the data.  The dta are, non -
_heleen. onefll to deschibe orders of mgnitude, indirate trondn, and  haratertie certain   jor differencea betweee ceuntri.ee
The refererce groupt are (I) the tact country group of the nubject country and (2) a country group with nuiewhat highre aurrage incote than the country group
of the nubjoct country (coceyt for   "ttgh locome   0il txporters" group where 'Middlt income North Africa mod Middle tact' Ischonen hecause of ntronger
o.o.a-culuta1 naftuition).  nI the reference group data the averages ore populotion seighted arithsotic meant fur each  indicator and bhwov  only vhno
cajority of the countrries in e group has data for that ind icator. since the coverago of cuounrrire seong the indicators depends non the availahility of data
ood in nou outturn chautor cUnt hc cxercised in relating anecagea of ore indicator to anotber. Thtse averages ace only oseful inuompaclig the value ft
onetlndicatortat artineoeactgtheruantryand reference groups.
kNdA fthaousad sqIrn.)                                                                      Poputatie cr potaocicuta ted - total, urban, and rurai - Popuact-Oi  (total,
focal -     lutai aurfore oven co00tinitg  oaud aosetd irland wacern; 1979 data,             urban, and rurai) dvided hy theit respectinn no ubet of bnpital heda
Mricolturol - loit eace of agicuiltur-l area used temporarily or permnently                  available in publit and private general and -  pec-alieed hospital and re-
far crops, panture. marhet and kitchen gardens or to lie falloe; 1979 data.               hailttaiionuenier.  fespital care estoblishmrnts permanently stalled
by at leati  one phy-i-lan.   itoblish_ests providing principally costa-
(iNP PIE CAPITA fUll) - diP per capita cotia tea at current market pricet  rat-                dial core are  onotincluded.  grat hospitale. howere, itlutde health
culated hy non  caonvrson tomethod as World oath Atias 11929-at bastil)  19fO,              and =edical centers nout ptrmanently staffed by a physincton (hut by a
1970, and 19ff data.                                                                         edtiona ansitravid  nure bided f   etc.) 0  nicb offer in-patient accomeo-
ENEMiiY CONSU!IPTION PER CAPITA - Annual conoamptiot of coroinl energy (coal                   tical purpe.es urban bonpiatas include feOn yrtncipulfgencrat  bompitolc.
ansd tiglte, petrolu. natural fan and hydro-. ouclear and geothermal elec-                  ond rural  ospitais lsitaa  or talco  hopitals and medalI and maternity
tricity) in rllogruns of coat equivalent per capita; 1960. 197o, and 1929                   centors.  ipectotteed hospitals ore included only under ctotal
data                                                                                       fdriIuot yeitals dliav ed by   Tota nu   o b bof admiasions to o  dic tcarget
Total Pupuleetuu. Mid-fear (thoutantds) - An of duty 1; 1960, 1970, and 1990            1oft.Sl
dat.                                                                               Aerae ineofofenehld  yceno  perhunbudf  -dtotl, urban  and ruea
frban Purulailor  oaeroeot of total) - gtito of arhac to total population;                  A heunohuld consintn of a group oPf individua'l no   taotal, tugb nqoarirts-
differret definiteloon  of urban ocean may affect rompoeahtllty at data                   and their main mealt   A boarder or lodgde ny on may not ho included is
ameng countries; 19ff, t97, and 19fd  dat-A                                                the household lee utatistical purptnsc
Popu ationtoi year 20Of - Current  population pruojctienc ore hated on 1OOf               her of pernsn per rues in all urba an ahd rar       *nl occpie  c *ventoc
total population by ago and urn and their marenlitty and fertility roles.               doell logo. respectively.  Dvellings earclude tue-pormatoto streuctures and
P'rojection parameters Per ttcroality craes runpnice of three levels  nmun              unouccopied parts.
min6lt d      td femae lt brt Aop iv   u ta bilia ig or 2 2  years.  The para-          Currentional dv  lings with electri ity i  living quartern as per tage
_rters for Perttility rare alo hove three lonevet auticlg decline in                    of total, urben, and rural dwve llgn   respectively
fertility according to incomec louel anod fast fa=inly planning parformacce.
loch country ic lbhrenn asigned one of these nice rumhlcatloos of mePrtafite        EDUCATIONI
and fertility try rnds Inc prujetion purposes.                                        Adjusted t   lltent tattdd
Sratoonry poculatito   - In a op al..nary ynpuloion tero in no groath since               Primary school - total, male and fempale - Gross toal, sale and female
the birth rote in eqool to the death rate, and also the age structure re-                 enrolltent of oil agrunat the prima ry level an percentogos of resperctitoo
colon constaot.  Thin In auhoened pnly after fcctlttiy  rares decline to                   primnty ucbnul-ago poyulations; nor=aily inclodes childrcon aged 6-li
rhe roplacerent tevel of unitoetrcpruduttiot rate. when each generation                   pene hat edjusted fur differect lengths of primary educatloni for
of vo=en roplaros Itnelf coachtly   The stationary population sine can                    countrioes irh uvnieesal educationoercollrent enyre;ceed 1ff percent
esripmated on rho boois of the projected characteristics of the poputatlon                sinre none pupins are helwn or about nbe ofticlol school ego.
In tOo year 2000, and thctrate of declinr of fertility rate to replact-                 fecondary school - total, stale and tomat  - Computed as abve1; secondary
nent lnvel.                                                                                education reqoires at leant foot yeors of approoed primTary tostrnnttnn;
Yont ton blona yy populatlon in -reched - hei year ohe  startlunacy population               pronides funtrat, vocational, or cracher training iostructions lot pupils
nize nill ho reached.                                                                     unoally of 12 no 12 years of a go; carretspondence coureso  are generalip
Population trunity                                                                             excluded-
Peroo.h.-nd-y  ncr popnlurnon puosuaro kilonhtae lr(10 recrnniof                        Voracionalcocallmeuc ern of s condary)-fVcarlonal Ins i ut tact
t      fval o ent; 19li, 1920 nod 1929 darn.                                            Includr techoioal  itdustrall a  other prugrant whIch operane Indopend-
Per onq  kn. agricultural land - CunynUted as about for ageriulturel land                 ently or an depnvtnentn of secondary inctitutlOnt.
cOp;.li..Y. 1920 and 1979 d a.                                                        Pnpil-toonor rotio - prima ry, and Iccoddary-Totol studentseolled in
P      hoaut l ge t  hc    _luchure (eorcenr) - Children (0-14 years), vouklof-oge 115-     priery and -b- podary -uet divided by numters of tearhern to the
h4 yeros). and noticed (61 years and tvor) en ptrcet-lges at mid-year ppop-               correspooding levels.
lotion; 1961, 1910, and 1980 data.                                                      Adult titeracy rate (perceot)I - Literate adults fable to road eind wrice)
ropulation fronth  ter (peruent) - tural - annual grovth rates of total pid-                asnaperrontafe of total adult population ogrd 15 yearn end over.
foar populotior fur 19hO-6f, ti96-f0, and 1970-90.
Population Grovth gate (porcien) - urban- Annual grooth rates of urhan popu-            CO5ssiPCIOI
lat -on       y tot 1950-60. i900-20, and  9f-f.-                                       Passonger l re (per thousand poputatoloI   - Passenger cars co=pr iseo mtor
Crude tirth fRae lper chouannd) - Montua lire births per thousand of mid-pent               tarn nearing less than eight persons; etcludos nuabulancen, hoarser and
population, lif0. 1f70. and 1980 dorat                                                     military nehiIle    to
Cruto Death loRe Iper chonsand) - Annual deaths per thounand  of nid-yrar                 R             dio teotivers tert thounand popn1atton) - All typos of reoeivers tee radio
puolvio;liI  1920  nod   -d               dl.  h  lifedb.h-odcstteeoeatpuli  per                                            .  thosan   of . poaiio  onoe lode  on-
front Reycudui lt  oot R         Avrrng _ nu=ber ot daughters n   Io-en cill he  in         ticnteyd coreevrtIc counthe. and in yea  Phergitrationef rd
her  notsnal hrproductive period if ohe experien  pruest oge-specific  oer-               tern wain teffort; data Inc  recent yearns=ay  not  he unsparait smeut
tility rater; usually tine-year averages ending to 1960, 1970, and 19.                     mrsrc rc inrie abolisbod licensing.
yanly Planninpa-rcceprors, Annual (thouanTds) -           .Pcatl na=ber of accept-re      7V Rercelvrt (per thousand population) - l tV oeoctiver for broadcast no
of hirbt-cot rrd   devices  nder ahupices of tatlomal family plannino prugran.             general public trr thou-ni d       population; rIc udos aoliconod TVreeeivers
IYP dly Planoing-fUsrn (perceot of married vpten) -  Prrcentage of married                  inoutesetnd in yearn vhen regisoration of TV sets aw in effort
ntmen at child-bearing ago (15-44 roots) who ate birrh-coutrol  devices to              Ntewpeper Circalatino  (per thousnnd pupulotion) - lb out the average  ir-
all macclod nont in sane age group.                                                         ullation of 'doily generat in erent n paprI  defined an a periodical
oblination denoted primarily  to recording goneral aYew    I  is considered
P0OD ANfD NUTRlTION                                                                           to hr 'daily0 if it appears at leant feat tineds a week.
Index of Pood Produtlon per Capita (1969-71-10f) - Iodnd  of per capita annual            Cinema Mountu  Avdaunt perr Copita per Year - loned on rho number of
produc Ion of alt food r.Yesoditlosi Produc  ion oNcludos need  nod teed and              tickers told durng rh  year. including odulwiorn  to drive-in cluma
in or rairndar year bass   CdomdEtr is cover erimarI gotd  f og  sugarcant                and cobIto un sn
inotoad of sugart whiob are edible and convain nurrieon s(eg. coffee and
tea  are encluded)l Aggregate produ cion of each country in hated oc                 L00  PORC
Pneronal ororago produe tlorico (pr engof  19t-, 1d       a t       da                  Total L;bor force (tho1aud   -f Efonn ica-y actfp   t pcdunns, incloding
Prcpta"'.'      o  rlre   orru   fcvuonou   Contur hed tru  ofe   ore   n  ooesluyd ht ec ld-n,onote,wuens   t.
per day.  huacluhie supplion co=prise dowlesric production. itports leon                  nou  corpatablet lift. lift tnod lift data.
rrporrn, and rbangeo inoroo.   bet supplien etnlude animal f eed, nerds,                  remain (pecrwen) - Peadle labvr force an preruetage ot total Ibunt tProee
quan tieslo  cured in tood prucennlng. and loosen In disurihu intt   toquire-             Agriculture (percent) - Labor foro eIn farming, turestry, hooting and
ptents note eurimaired by PAt hound on phyniulologia  needs for normadl uri-                flub tog as percen huge of total labor tocrce; 1960, 1970 and 19801 data.
city and health routsidering enultoonmental tenpreniure. body teights , age               Industry (perceunt) - Labor torce in wining.  onstrurtion, covnufoctut lrg
and sex distribution of poptlarion, and allowing 10 percent fur vaste at                    and electricitry, aatrr and gas as percentage of total laohr force
hounehuld  rl; v l,  -h 1   o1-6t, 19  nd 1922 darn                                         1960. lift oan  19f  data.
Pet capita supply of protrin (grams per day) - Protein conteno at per capita              Participation Rtatr (portent) - rural, male, and femeale - PortIc ipat too or
Oct supply of food ror day   Net sopply ur food 1s defiued an abou.  te-                  ativity ta es arecuopated so total, male, nod female labor f
qulrmerten  for all ucurerien eloahlishrd by USDA pruovde foe =inikod                     percentagen of total, male and femle population of all a get ccnpertivelyt
allov;nces of 6f gramy at rural proteio per day and tO frams of sotml and                 1960, 1920. and 19Sf data.  Those are bared on - Tt s participatlon rates
pulue proteio, of ohich It aroap  thould hr onimtal protrin.  These stand-                reflecting a ge-urn ntructure of tho ppoplation. and long tipne trend.  A
ardn are boor chat those of 21 gracoy of total protein and 20 groa=  of                   ion osrimsers ace true national sources.
anImal pruo lan  or a  averagef for  hle aucla, propound by PMO in rho Third            tcono=ic Depeodeocy lotio - Rttio of populatIon apder 15 end 65 and oncer
World yood Sarvey; 1961-5, 1970 and 192 data                                              to the tr al labor forr e
Per YapIa protein noyply fros a65 l al and pulae - ProtYr en sply of foud de-
riced true onimalt and pulnes in grams per day; 1961-61. 1920 and 1922 dora.          tiifeti tflTUTIZI
Chrud (agen 1-4) Drath lote (per thoLuand) - Anaool deaths per thounand is                Poreotango of Private In ooe (hoth in cash and kind) - oRdeived by richosc
agietg data   peniend from  hLdeo to thIs a6oge9gruoLp, for cos  developitog couno-       5 perceuc. tichesr 20 perocot, poorent 20 percent. aed poorest if precent
HEALTd                                                                                    POfVifTY TMGEfT 0G10LP
Lite toye  ancy at oirth (rearo) - AIrage no-Ir ot years of  life remaining               The fulloving eiur late  are very apprenimate teasurex of poerIty levels,
no bIrth; 190ff 1920 and 1960 dora,                                                       and should he  oto rpreted sith nonsiderahle _at ion
t age per  rhoasoed Ilie hicrbu  19ff  1920 nod1  19    tfdare.      o                   Absolute pnyerty income leei   o tht into e Level  beLo which t minima
anbenrof lotoe stomei uorcan tx ofrulatio) -itotl     uren, a*nd rural - hum-             nutritionally adequarn diet plum essenriot non-food reqoirenents ts tot
vsorer supply (includes treated sarifate sdters or untreated huh nucoctamisated         tEtimatd telativ  Poet  1nnue LouI (it) prapita) - uba  ad rural -
sorer such as that frot protected hu-boics  spric9g-t and sonitaryo itls) am          C stOaN eltive   oeTtY  kt             ve    oet           av        UT    to pita
pretg   of thtir respective popniatteusa  In on arbacs retsaapublic                 pernoust imooma at the roantry.  Urban loewl in deiend fro= the ruedl
founveto or s tandpoint located tno  mere than 200 meters from a house coy be             level =ith adjustment fur higher nest of lining in orb- so*reet-
roononable ocrossB mould iseply Ethat the booest fe ord mehen of thet hoeahor             and rort  - Portent of pepuiatioc  (urban an7de raL) vh  orer abourb-
do nor have to spend a dispropor Iifrde  part of the  day  in feothiog  the"
fomiip s uwarecuceds.
occeo to  Peropla tneuP- l (hnroent uf enh-vlatidn) - total, urban, and roost -
percensages of thsei re      .petiv; pe Fnlanio. - lonreto disposal may innlude
the colletnipn o 7nd disposal, math or vti ast treafmt  at nf hnn  nireesa
and wosio-seter by  ote.-homrte sy.tent or  the nine of pit privis and simhi-
lar tosralianions.
Pepulatton per Pkesitiae - Popuiation divided by ntSbet of prnrrisisg physt-                                                   etoasoit4  sod Sonial Data Oicitalte
tiane  qealified from  a mediral sbheni at utivermiry bevet                                                            bnost  Ac-lysis sod Projections Dt Pdrcmsoet
Population per ttnrsito  Pertse  - Popaintiosl divided hy number of pran'istig May f192
maim anwd female frmdcoie nurses, assistot carse., practicsl seme esad
esraing scoilioties.



ANNEX I
- 28 -                                                   Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US5 at                        Annual growth rates (%) (at constant prices)
current prices)                         Actual                                         Projected
Indicator                              :981            1978     1979     1980     1981      1982/a    1983     1984     1985     1936      1987
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product             38,876             5.9      5.9      4.9      3.8      2.0        2.0      4.5      5.5      6.0      6.5
Agriculture                       8 765            4.8      5.3       5.0      3.6      3.4       3.4      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0
Industry                         14,481            6.4      6.7       3.5      4.7      1.0       1.0      4.7      6.3       7.1      7.5
Services                         15,630            6.3      5.5       6.3      3.0      2.2       2.2      4.0       5.0      5.5      6.0
Consumption                        29,032            4.6       4.8      4.8      4.0      2.2        1.7      2.9      4.6      4.9      6.1
Gross investment                   11,806            13.3      7.4      1.0      2.3      1.0      -0.3       4.5      5.5      6.0      6.5
Exports of GNFS                     7,411             1.6      7.4     16.0      1.6    -3.0         5.0      6.6      7.2      7.9      8.1
Imports of GNFS                     9,373           13.2      10.3      3.7    -2.9       0.1       0.6       1.6      2.7      5.1      6.0
Gross national savings              9,884            8.3       7.7      3.4      3.1      1.2
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 = 100)                          210.6   249.4   286.9   319.3   350.0
Exchange rate (US$l =   )                           7.38    7.39       7.52     7.89    8.45
Export price index (1980 = 100)                     75.6    88.7    100.0    97.0    97.9         100.7    108.8    120.6   128.8   137.7
Import price index (1980 = 100)                     71.5    81.2    100.0    99.2   103.5         109.0    117.8    127.5   138.2    149.0
Terms of trade index (1980 = 100)                  105.7    109.2    100.0    97.9    94.6         92.4    92.3       94.5    93.2    92.4
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                          Average annual increase  %)
(at current prices) /b                                    (at constant prices)
1960     1970     1975     1980     1985     1990       1960-70    1970-75    1975-80   1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0              5.1         6.1        5.9        :3.4        6.5
Agriculture                        28.1     27.8    29.0       23.2    23.2      22.0          4.3        4.3         4.8        4.2         5.0
Industry                           25.8     29.6     33.5      36.9     38.1    40.6           6.0        8.6         7.6         3.5        7.1
Services                           46.1    42.6       37.5    39.9      38.7     37.4          5.2        5.4         5.7        3.8         5.9
Consumption                        85.3     79.2      75.8    73.8      74.5    73.6           4.8        5.5         5.2        :3.1        6.0
Gross investment                   16.3    21.5       31.0    30.5      27.7     28.0          8.2       11.5         6.5         2.3        6.4
Exports of GNFS                    10.8     19.4      18.5    20.1      21.8     22.1          5.8        3.2        10.0        5.2         8.5
Imports of GNFS                    10.6     19.7     25.3      26.4     25.0     23.7          6.8        6.8         8.0        2.1         7.1
Gross national savings             16.2     20.5      25.3     23.1                            7.4        9.7         5.8
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975        1980         Labor Force in 1978             Millions      (%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                   Agriculture                    7.4        44.4
Current revenues                             9.8         9.5        13.9       13.6            Industry                       2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                         9.6        10.9       12.3        10.0            Services                       5.6       33.0
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)           0.2        -1.4         1.6        3.6            Unemployed                     1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                          2.3         1.9         3.2        7.8
Foreign financing                            -           0.1        0.3         2.3                Total Labor Force         16.8      100.0
1960-70           1970-75           1975-80            1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                     5.1               5.6                5.9               3.4                6.4
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (Y)                          2.0               2.7                3.2               1.0               4.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                      7.4               6.2                4.2               3.9               7.0
ICOR                                                           4.5               4.7               4.6                4.6               4.2
Marginal savings rate                                         0.29              0.33              0.26               0.32              0.34
Import elasticity                                             1.33              1.12              1.20                0.7              1.05
/a Preliminary estimate.
/b Projected years at constant prices.
East Asia 6 Pacific Regional Office
December 1982



, 29 -                                      kNNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ million, at current prices)
Actual                   Est.                Projected
1978      1979      1980      1981     1982     1983     1984     1985     1986
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services                    4,838    6,177       7,863    8,624   8,365   9,720  10,880  12,400  14,250
Of which:  exports of goods                    3,425    4,602      5,788      5,722   5,080   5,850   6,380   7,100   8,030
Imports of goods.and services                    6,323    8,108   10,348   11,389  12,041  12, 720  13,800  15,100  17,000
Of which:  imports of goods                    4,732    6,142    7,727    7,952   7,971   8,450   9,250  10,200  11,500
Transfers (net)                                    312        355       434       472      465      540      650      700      750
Current Account Balance                       -1,173   -1,576   -2,051   -2,293  -3,211  -2,460  -2,270  -2,000  -2,000
Direct investment (net)                             171        99        45       407      200      266      350      400      432
MLT loans (net)                                    891      1,091     1,032     1,382    1,578   1,518   1,377    1,345   1,350
Official-source loans (net)                      333       449        375       691      650      780      850      910      980
Private-source loans (net)                       501       642       657        691     978       738      527      435      370
Other capital (net) /a                               56     -193        593        34      333       78      100       55      168
Overall Balance /b                               -54      -579      -381      -560  -1,100    -598    -443    -200           -50
International reserves (end-year) /c             1,883    2,423    3,155    2,532
Reserves as months of imports                      3.6        3.6       3.7       2.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                            1,914.4  2,134.0  1,886.6  2,136.5
Concessional Loans                             116.7     184.6     165.5    212.4
Bilateral                                     56.0     113.1     107.2     198.1
IDA                                            0.9       2.5       1.7       7.1
Other multilateral                            59.9      69.0      58.5       7.2
Nonconcessional Loans                        1,797.6  1,949.4  1,719.1  1,924.1
Official export credits                      121.6     151.7       7.9      58.0
IBRD                                         163.0    210.3    228.7    441.2
Other multilateral                            46.6      81.1      83.3     119.1
Private sources                           1,466.4  1,506.3  1,399.1  1,305.8
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                 6,298    7,204    8,415   10,148
Official-source                              1,904    2,286    2,730    3,355
Private-source                               4,394    4,918    5,685    6,793
Undisbursed debt /d                            3,589    3,645    4,086    4,546
Debt Service
Total service payments /e                      1,284     1,480     1,013      1,560
Of which:  interest                            309       488        568      806
Payments as % of exports of goods
and services /e                               26.5      24.0      12.9       18.1
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                                  5.5        5.5       7.4       7.7
Private-source                                   9.1      10.5       14.3      15.5
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                                 22.7      23.4       20.2      20.9
Private-source                                  10.2      11.1       10.1      10.0
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
/b  Equals change in net international reserves.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
/d  Public and publicly guaranteed only.
/e  Includes prepayments of $401 million in 1978, $492 million in 1979 and $92 million in 1980.
East Asia and Pacific Region
December 1982



- 30 -                              ANNEX It
Page I of 17 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of September 30, 1982
Loan or
Credit                                                                           Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                  Purpose                              Bank         IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-one loans and three credits fully disbursed                               681.49      32.20
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.        Population                             25.00                     6.81
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.        Tarlac Irrigation                      17.00                     1.54
1102-PH   1975           "                 Rural Development                      25.00                     2.75
1154-PM   1976           "                 Magat Irrigation                       42.00                     2.95
1224-T-PH 1976                             Education III                          24.73                     2.01
1227-PH   1976                             Chico Irrigation                       50.00                   21.21
1272-T-PH 1976           "                 Manila Urban                           10.00                     2.60
1282-PH   1976           "                 Manila Urban                           22.00                     5.72
1269-PH   1977           "                  Second Grain Processing               11.50                     1.73
1353-PH   1977                             Third Highways                         95.00                    37.57
1367-PH   1977           "                 Jalaur Irrigation                      15.00                     3.58
1374-PH   1977           "                 Fourth Education                       25.00                     6.09
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the         Fourth Rural Credit                    36.50                    10.37
Philippines
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.         Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.            50.00                    29.48
1415-PH   1977                             Provincial Cities Water Sup.           23.00                     5.22
1421-PH   1977            "                Rural Dev. Land Settlement II          15.00                     5.23
1460-PH   1978 National Power Corp.         Seventh Power                         58.OC                   26.54
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.          Smallholder Tree Farming               8.00                     5.38
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                                     30.0C                     2.56
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II    65.00                        47.05
790-PH   1978           "                 Rural Infrastructure                              28.00         20.37
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Flectrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                      60.00                     0.79
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                       15.0C                     1.04
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         '4agat II                             150.00                    15.40
1572-PH   1978                              Industrial Investment III             80.00                    22.91
1615-PH   1979                             Manila Water Supply II                 88.00                    72.68
1626-PH   1979           "                 National Extension                     35.00                   27.60
1639-PH   1979           "agar River Multipurpose                                 21.00                    9.86
1646-PH   1979                             Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)          16.50                     6.06
1647-PH   1979           "                 Second Urban Development               32.00                    19.40
1661-PH    1979          "                 Highways IV                           100.00                   93.37
1710-PH   1979            "                Water Supply II                        16.00                    16.00
920-PH   1979            "                Water Supply II                                   22.00         18.09
1727-PH   1979                              Small & Medium Industry II            25.00                     0.29
923-PH   1979            "                 Population II                                    40.00         38.47
1772-PH   1980            "                 Samar Island Rural Development        27.00                    23.42
1786-PH   1980           "                 Fisheries Training (Educ. VI)          38.00/b                  36.23
1809-PH   1980            "                Medium-Scale Irrigation                71.00                    64.52
1814-PH   1980           "                 Manila Sewerage & Sanitation           63.00                    52.71
1815-PH   1980            "                Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)           12.00                    10.79
1821-PH   1980                             Third Urban                            72.00                    56.11
1855-PH   1980                             Third Ports                            67.00                    52.62
1860-PH   1980                             Rural Roads Improvement                62.00                    54.37
1890-PH   1981                             Watershed Management                   38.00                    34.00
1894-PH   1981                             Third Livestock & Fisheries            45.00                    30.40
1903-PH   1981            "                 Structural Adjustment                200.00                     3.18
1984-PM   1981  Central Bank of the    Industrial Finance (Apex)                 150.00                   149.39
Philippines
2030-PH   1981  Rep. of the Philip.         Elem. Educ. Sector Loan              100.00                    97.18
2040-PH   1982                              Ag. Support Services                  45.00                    44.91
2067-PH   1982            "                 Urban Engineering                      8.00                     7.74
2127-PH/a 1982                              Textile Sector Restructure           157.40                   157.40
2156-PH/a 1982            "                 National Fisheries Development        22.40                    22.40
2169-PM/a 1982            "                 SMI III                              132.00                   132.00
2173-PH/a 1982            "                 Communal Irrigation                   71.10                    71.10
2181-PH/a 1982  National Power Corp.   Coal Exploration                           17.00                    17.00
2200-PH/a 1983  Rep. of the Philip.    Educarion VIII                             24.40                    24.40
2201-PH/a 1983  Philip. Nat. Oil Co.   Petroleum Exploration Promotion   13.50                             13.50
2202-PH/a 1983            "                 Petroleum Exploration Pronotion   24.00                        24.00
2203-PH/a 1983                              Geothermal Exploration                36.00                    36.00
Total                                                                     3,463.52      122.20     1,404.19
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                                  268.98       0.05
Total now outstanding                                                     3,194.54      122.15
Amount sold                                                31.94
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                         25.17               6.77       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                    3,187.77     122.15
Total undisbursed                                                         1,327.26       76.93     1,404.19
/a Not yet effective.
/b Includes $7.6 million NORAD funds.



- 31 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1982
Fiscal
Year                      Company                             Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973   Private Development Corporation of the             15.0     4.4      19.4
Philippines
1967           Manila Electric Company                            8.0     -         8.0
1967           Meralco Securities Corporation                     -        4.0      4.0
1970           Philippine Long Distance Telephone                 3.7       .8      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972   Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                       0.8      0.4        1.2
1970           Paper Industries Corporation of the                -       2.2       2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977   Philippine Petroleum Corporation                    6.2     2.1       8.3
1972           Marinduque Mining and Industrial                  15.0     -        15.0
Corporation
1973           Victorias Chemical Corporation                     1.9     0.3       2.2
1974           Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation              1.5     -          1.5
1974/1979      Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.          1.6     0.6       2.2
1974           Republic Flour Mills Corporation                   1.2     -          1.2
1975           Philippine Polyamide Industrial                    7.0     -         7.0
Corporation
1976/1980      Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                         2.6     0.2       2.8
1977           Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                         2.3      1.2      3.5
1977           Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                         3.5     -         3.5
1978           Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.         2.1      -         2.1
1979           General Milling Corporation                        4.0      1.1      5.1
1980           PISO Leasing Corporation                           5.0     0.1       5.1
1980           Ventures in Industry and Business                  -       0.3       0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980           Consoldiated Industrial Gases, Inc.                4.5     -         4.5
1981           Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                     18.5       .7     19.2
1981           Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp.   -             5.0      5.0
1981           Davao Union Cement Corp.                          16.0     -        16.0
1982           NDC-Guthrie Plantations                           11.0     -        11.0
Total gross commitments                         131.4    23.4    154.8
Less sold, acquired by others,                 56.5    13.8       70.3
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC                74.9      9.6      84.5
Total Undisbursed                                41.5      0.8      42.3



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Loan N. 1080    Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of June 1982 the project was about 95% complete. Full comple-
tion is expected in early 1983. The delay of over two and one half years in
the original schedule was caused mainly by managerial problems and late pre-
paration of the designs for the drainage works. The irrigated area developed
is likely to be some 20% less than originally planned, mainly because of
flooding from the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers.
Loan No. 1102    Rural Development; $25.0 Million Toan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The overall project implementation was about 90% complete as of
June 30, 1982, two years after the appraisal completion date. The agricul-
tural support services, Mangyan assistance, schistosomiasis control and the
Port of Calapan Tiprovement components were completed in L%cember 1981 at
variance, in some respects, to the appraisal expectations. The irrigation
and water control components are scheduled for completion in DIcember 1982
while the road component will be completed in June 1983.  Project implemen-
tation was delayed from the outset due to transportation difficulties,
difficult working conditions, shortage of construction materials and
supplies, and reluctance of contractors to work in remote areas. The
project costs have increased by about 40%. The project is expected to be
completed in June 1983, about three years behind the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1154    Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:  November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The main contract for the Maris Dam is ahead of schedule, while two
other main contracts are slightly behind. Civil works by local contract and
force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of canals, drains and
access roads are progressing well, and the project is over 90% complete. The
water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earl ier delays
in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980, project
completion is expected to be delayed by about 18 months over the appraisal
schedule of December 1981.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
Loan No. 1227    Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Although the project was scheduled for completion by June 1980, it
is now only about 70% complete.  Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays were caused by: changes
in design which resulted in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; problems of right-of-way acquisition; and the suspension of
work on the diversion dam because of security problems. The project is now
expected to be completed in June 1984, a four-year delay over the appraisal
estimate. Efforts are being made to start irrigation in some project areas
from early 1983.
Loan No. 1269    Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and the revised closing date is expected
to be met. The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a slow
beginning which led to a two-year delay in completion. Delays in project
implementation were caused chiefly by: the availability to grain millers
of alternative sources of financing; limited amounts of working capital; and
DBP's failure to promote the project's line of credit.
Loan No. 1367    Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is over 95% complete. Remaining construction activities
include the completion of improvement of works of the Santa Barbara diversion
dam and on-farm facilities. The National Irrigation Administration expects to
complete all construction works by the end of 1982. A request for an exten-
sion of the closing date is expected shortly.
Loan No. 1399    Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. The pace
of subloan disbursements by participating rural banks continues to be slow.
Following amendments to the Monetary Board Rules and Regulations, effective
January 1982, the institutional base of the project has been widened to



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
include the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) and
other eligible non-bank financial intermediaries. The lending rules for the
rural and private development banks have also been rationalized. As a result,
subloan demand is expected to pick up but it is estimated that the disburse-
ment rate will not reach the minimum level of P 23 million per month re-
quired to disburse the loan in full by the closing date, and this will need to
be extended.
Loan No. 1414    National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to shortage of
staff and design problems at the outset, which caused delays in the finaliza-
tion of designs and preparation of bidding and contract documents for the
Abulog diversion dam and drainage works in Leyte. Shortages of fuel and
construction materials, which initially caused major delays, were eventually
overcome. Implementation improved in 1979 as a result of better planning and
organization and less complicated contract procedures. However, project
execution was severely delayed in 1980, 1981 and 1982 due to inadequate and,
in certain cases, late release of counterpart funds. The project is now about
45% complete, and is expected to be completed in December 1984, about three
years behind the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1421    Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A Cabinet subcommittee has been appointed to examine proposals for a
public land management policy emerging from an interagency workshop held in
August 1981. Feasibility studies have been completed for two of the three
settlements proposed for a follow-on Bank-financed project. Satisfactory
progress is being made in land allocation and titling and project infra-
structure; however, some titling and infrastructure works are expected to
extend beyond the current loan closing date. A good start has been made on
the credit program and this should gather momentum. Progress in the
agricultural development component has been promising, as reflected in the
adoption by settlers of improved techniques, in the extent of areas now under
cultivation, and in reported improved yields. The reforestation component of
the project has, however, been neglected. In view of the status of some
project components, the Government is expected to request an extension of the
loan closing date by two years, to December 31, 1984.
Loan No. 1506    Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $80.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Rehabilitation of tree farms that were hit by the March 1982 typhoon
is being discussed and DBP and KKK are nearing agreement to make available to
farmers interest-free funds under the KKK program. The progress of the



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
sublending component has improved substantially during the last twelve months.
The demand for firewood and pulp has increased significantly in light of
Government's policy to substitute, where feasible, petroleum with wood produc-
tion. Future demand prospects appear favorable. The Abra Pine Development
project component has ran into serious problems with the attack of the shoot
moth and fungus; the experience being acquired under the project is critical
for future development schemes of the Bureau of Forest Development. The
institution-building features of the project for the two Ministries of Natural
Resources and Agriculture as well as the research component undertaken by
PCARR are progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1526    Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Survey and design has been completed for minor structures on the
basis of which force acccount and small package contract works are under way.
The major contract works have fallen behind schedule because of delays in pre-
paring detailed engineering designs and the slow processes in the bidding and
award of construction contracts. Project execution has also been hampered by
unusually severe weather conditions in Regions 11 and 12 and the deteriorating
peace and order situation in Region 5. Difficulties in the appropriation of
local funds further slowed down project execution in 1980 and 1981. The
project is now expected to be completed in 1985, one year behind the appraisal
schedule.
Credit No. 790   Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply systems and health stations is
proceeding satisfactorily with about 360 water wells and 53 health stations
now completed. The construction of the ports of San Jose and Culasi is
substantially complete. Construction of Dumaguit port is behind schedule.
Construction of the irrigation components, which was held up by inadequate
support facilities, ineffective farmer organizations and failure of farmers to
collaborate with project staff, is now picking up speed. About 35 km of roads
have been constructed through force account, construction contracts have been
awarded for 300 km of roads and the detailed design of the remaining roads is
well under way. Project completion is now planned for December 1984, about
two years behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567    Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good and the project is about 92% complete. All the
major works have been completed and the project was inaugurated by the Presi-
dent of the Republic of the Philippines on October 27, 1982. The remaining



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
works are likely to be completed by December 1982. The water level in the
reservoir has already risen to an elevation of 184 m as against the maximum
elevation of 193 m. Depending upon weather conditions, full storage may be
achieved by the end of 1982. Excellent progress has been made in the re-
settlement of population displaced by the reservoir. All the families have
been settled in three new villages and provided with basic amenities. The
project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1626    National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Under the project, the Ministry of Agriculture is introducting
through its Bureau of Agricultural Extension and the new Regional Offices
the training and visit (T&V) system to the agricultural extension service
of the Philippines. A shortage of local funds has affected project progress.
Procurement problems should ease as a reduced number of vehicles are to be
procured under the project. Coverage under the program has been confined to
the pilot areas, but will be expanded to achieve national coverage by the end
of 1984. The Government has submitted a modified project proposal to achieve
this objective which has been reviewed favorably by the Bank. A formal re-
quest for a two-year extension is expected.
Loan No. 1639    Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of Effective-
ness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is generally
satisfactory. All major contracts have been awarded and some are ahead of
schedule. All construction equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is now expected by the end of 1984, two years behind the appraisal
estimate. The major constraint has been the overall shortage of local funds.
Loan No. 1646    Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of the
Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The pace of sub-loan disbursements to small farmers continutes to be
slow due to LBP's cautious approach to lending resulting from poor
collections under past sub-loans and to the delay in the reorganization of
field offices caused by belated government approval of LBP's proposals. In
addition, there has been a backlog in loan withdrawals in respect of
disbursements to second priority (non-agrarian reform) beneficiaries. The
field office reorganization and and other institutional development measures
are, however, expected to be carried out in the near future. Procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the infrastructure component have
also been resolved, and the line agencies have started subproject implemen-
tation. The loan is expected to be fully drawn down by December 31, 1983, an
18-month delay over the appraisal estimate of June 30, 1982.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Loan No. 1772    Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bidding on road construction was delayed due to political
disturbances on the island, but contracts were awarded in June 1982.
Construction costs have increased almost three-fold over appraisal estimates.
Port work is proceeding satisfactorily, but the irrigation program has been
delayed due to withdrawal of one of the sites because of technical objections
by the beneficiaries.   Alternative sites have been reviewed by the Bank.
The construction of village wells is progressing, and a pump maintenance
problem was corrected by providing specialized service tools under the
project. The formation of water users associations, and the collection of
water charges, began slowly but are gaining momentum. The program of
schistosomiasis control has been slowed by a shortage of local funds and
suitable technicians. The Catubig Valley development study has been
completed.
Loan No. 1809    Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Four contracts have been awarded and work is under way on two of the
irrigation systems. Designs are being finalized for the remaining systems and
contract documents are under preparation. Construction equipment and vehicles
have been procured and force account works are under way on most of the
project sites. The project-assisted Malaria Eradication Service is showing
good results both in the treatment and prevention of malaria in the Nara
district of Palawan and in the training of Barangay health workers. A group
of consultants is conducting a study aimed at improving the operation and
maintenance of the National Irrigation Systems. The estimated completion date
is December 1987, two years behind the appraisal estimuate.
Loan No. 1815    Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
In spite of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agri-
culture's project management is making fair progress.  The multi-agency set-up
of this project requires close financial monitoring, which, in its present
form, needs further improvement. The 1981 wet season multiple-cropping target
of 6,000 ha under the Kabsaka methodology was achieved. The mobility of the
coordinating management staff has now improved with the provision of new
vehicles funded through the National Extension Project. The project has not
to date been able to purchase its own vehicles due to restrictions imposed by
the Presidential Office. Several project components are seriously affected by
the inadequacy or delay in the allocation or release of local funds.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Loan No. 1890    Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
Both the reforestation component in the Magat and Pantabangan water-
sheds and the forest protection pilot programs at Santa Fe and Donna Remedios
Trinidad are facing implementation problems because of delays in completion
of roadways, procurement of vehicles and heavy equipment, and, in the case of
the forest protection programs, because of delays in release of funds.
Targets for field development under the reforestation program have been
largely met but although there has been a marked improvement in achievement
under the pilot forest protection programs, performance to date has been poor.
The Magat Feasibility Study is progressing satisfactorily and Phase I should
be completed on schedule, in November 1982.
Loan No. 1894    Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is progressing well. In general, lending for fishpond
and hog production has exceeded appraisal estimates, while lending for sea-
going vessels and some types of cattle has lagged. (Village level cattle
schemes have substantially surpassed appraisal estimates.) The noncredit
component being carried out by the Bureau of Animal Industries is progress-
ing well. With regard to the credit component, however, weak cash flow and
poor portfolio quality have developed as major issues which affect DBP"s
overall creditworthiness. The need for a study on fishing gear technology,
to be handled by the Fishery Industry Development Council, is being recon-
sidered, and a review of maritime regulations is expected to start shortly.
Loan No. 2040    Agricultural Support Services; $45.0 million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 10, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
New agencies have been established, and existing agencies organized
to implement the 24 components of the project. Delays have been encountered
over the designation of responsibilities between the Central Office, the
staff bureaus and the Regional Offices following the 1980 reorganization of
the Ministry of Agriculture. The failure of the Budget Ministry to prcovide
local start-up funds of the 1981 and 1982 local fund allocation has seriously
constrained the project.
Loan No. 2156    National Fisheries Development; $22.4 Milliion Loan of
September 18, 1982; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
December 18, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1989
Signed in September 1982, this loan is expected to be declared
effective in December 1982.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Loan No. 2173    Communal Irrigation; $71.1 Million Loan of June 30, 1982;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 30, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
This loan was signed in June 1982. The due date for effectiveness
has been extended by two months to November 1982.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1353    Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, the project is about 70% complete and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many contrac-
tors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. MPWH has adhered
to its first 12-month action program of May 1981, and works on national and
minor road contracts are now progressing satisfactorily. In June 1982, MPWH
agreed on a second action program to help speed project implementation until
its completion. The road maintenance and restoration programs have been
reduced in scope to establish more realistic targets. Procurement of road
maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery has been completed.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed. The
technical assistance advisors to MPWH completed their assignment in November
1979 and training advisors to MPWH completed their work in March 1980.  The
project is likely to be completed by the end of 1983.
Loan No. 1661    Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After long initial delays caused mainly by slow procurement and
contracting procedures, the implementation of this project started to
progress more rapidly in 1981 and the trend continues. MPWH has adhered,
with some minor delays, to its action program for 1981/82 and agreed in
June 1982 on a new 12-month action program. MPWH has awarded nine of the
ten national road construction contracts and the works are under way.
The detailed engineering for construction of workshops has been nearly
completed and some contracts have been recently awarded. Pilot maintenance
programs for four regions are proceeding satisfactorily and procurement of
maintenance equipment is under way. Nevertheless, the overall delay in
project implementation now amounts to at least a year.
Loan No. 1855    Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Contracts for the construction works at the ports of Iloilo,
Cagayan de Oro, Cebu and Zamboanga have been awarded and work has begun.
The soil consolidation work at the Port of Cebu has been satisfactorily



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
completed. Procurement contracts for goods have been awarded and
deliveries are under way. Technical assistance and training components have
been initiated and studies included in the project are being pursued.
Arrangements for construction supervision need improvement and this is
being followed up by the Bank.
Loan No. 1860    Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
September 8,1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Five contracts have been awarded for a total of 76 km of roads,
and construction has started. Two more contracts are expected to be
awarded shortly. Engineering work on the remainder of the roads is under
way. All 24 authorized positions have been filled in MLG's Rural Roads
Program Office. All consulting services have started, and the feasibility
studies for 22 more provinces have been completed. Overseas training is
expected to be under way soon. The project is now about 12-18 months behind
schedule, caused entirely by start-up problems.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224-T Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This project is near completion and no new textbook production
contracts are envisioned. A total of 35.6 million textbooks under 83 titles
have been produced and an additional 8.2 million textbooks (20 titles) are
being manufactured. This exceeds appraisal targets by 62% and 56% in the
number of textbooks and titles respectively. The only incomplete project
item is the construction of the Textbook Board warehouse and secretaLriat.
The original civil works contract was terminated in July 1982 because of
rapid price escalation. The contract has been retendered and work on site
has started. P 5.5 million has been secured to finance the construction,
which is scheduled to be completed by mid-April 1983. The Closing Date has
accordingly been extended to June 1983.
Loan No. 1374    Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The decentralized project management introduced last year is
proving successful. Construction is over 70% complete, and most of the
remaining works are under tender or construction. Buildings for the
regional and farmer training centers are now complete and occupied.
Equipment procurement has been delayed due to lack of international
supplies' interest and the Bank has suggested ways to correct this.
Technical assistance is proceeding on schedule.



- 41r
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Loan No. 1786    Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Delays caused by the transfer of implementing responsibility for
this project have been checked and solutions to the confusion over the shar-
ing of responsibilities between EDPITAF and project institutions are being
identified. All civil works contracts have now been awarded, ten months
behind schedule, and construction is about 25% complete. Equipment and
fishing vessel contracts are expected to be awarded by the end of 1982.
Loan No. 2030    Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: November 10,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project has made a good start. Construction of classrooms is
ahead of schedule, in-service teacher training is in progress, and
procurement of equipment has begun. Project management is being
strengthened and work on policy objectives is in progress.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282    $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
On-site infrastructure is 100% complete and 4,800 plot titles have
been awarded with another 4,000 scheduled by December 1982. Improved water
supply is now available and house connections to 14,000 households will be
completed by June 1983. The sewer outfall should be completed by December
1983, the Tondo part of the R.10 road by June 1983, and the balance of the
R-10 and the C.2 roads by April 1984. The sites will be turned over to the
local government and the water and sewer systems to the Metropolitan Water
and Sewerage System by December 1982. The traffic management component is
now operational.
Loan No. 1415    Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is nearing completion, about one
year behind schedule. All major contracts have been awarded; one is
complete, and others are progressing. The construction cost is expected to
be close to appraisal estimates, with some savings to be cancelled.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Loan No. 1615    Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts for source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component. Since then, delays have
been experienced in contract execution and MWSS has extended the contract
periods by about 8 months. Disbursement delays of over one year now appear
inevitable, making a total delay in project implementation of about 2-1/2
years overall. A water rate increase of E 0.40 has been proposed for
January 1, 1983. Unaccounted-for water has now reached 50% of the total water
production; this problem is being studied by consultants and closely monitored
by Bank staff. Adequate measures for increasing the operating efficiency are
being formulated.
Loan No. 1647    Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In Dagat Dagatan, Manila, problems in funding contracts and poor
coordination between executing agencies, which caused considerable dlelays
and cost overruns (50% over appraisal estimates), have now been resolved.
Physical works are expected to be completed by June 1984. In the regional
cities, after an initially slow start due to staffing and political
problems, work is under way on all sites and completion is expected by June
1983.
Credit No. 920   Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan No. 1710    Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness:  November 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts to be financed under the project have been
formed, and about 100 communities (out of 150) identified for reconnaissance
surveys. Work is under way on the financial planning and control system, and
comprehensive management assistance and training. A new institution, the
Rural Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and has called
for bids for materials to be procured for rural water supply in about 1,000
rural communities. With this start-up work now under way, disbursem,ents are
expected to improve.
Loan No. 1814    Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project:  $63.0 million Loan
of March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
All components of the project are proceeding well, except for two
major contracts which have slipped badly, one of which is to be terminated.
The organization for the combined sewer program is in place; staffing and
training plans are being prepared; and equipment for the water quality



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
monitoring program has been approved for procurement. Delays in rehabili-
tation of the Manila Sewer System (not financed by the Bank) are expected to
result in about a 6-month delay in the Bank-financed project. The contractual
problems encountered will also result in a slippage in disbursements of at
least 6 months. Part of the loan proceeds earmarked for preparation and
detailed engineering for a follow-on water supply project in Manila have been
used for the construction of two small diversion tunnels.
Loan No. 1821    Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980  Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Physical progress has been slow on this project, mainly accounted
for by the sites and services components, which are delayed due to land
acquisition and managerial difficulties. However, these have now been
resolved. Physical implementation of the Zonal Improvement Program (slum
improvement) is close to the appraisal schedule. Late budget releases
continue to be a problem.  Substantial preparation work has been done on the
second phase program in community upgrading, serviced sites and basic
municipal infrastructure. The MMINUTE and Solid Wastes Improvement Programs
are behind schedule but have now been programmed to achieve appraisal targets
by June 1984.
Loan No. 2067    Urban Engineering Project; $8.0 Million Loan of
February 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: May 20, 1982
Closing Date: June 30,1985
This loan was declared effective in May 1982. Most of the project
preparation work and detailed engineering being financed under this loan for
the Regional Cities Development Project and the Central Visayas Urban
Project are progressing satisfactorily.
Power and Energy Sector
Loan No. 1460    Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now two years behind schedule, mainly
due to delays in the construction of the load dispatching center and the
setting up of the Technical Training Center. The revised project cost is
now estimated at $100 million (including additional works), 8% higher than
the original estimate. NPC has been unable to meet the 8% rate of return
target provided in the Loan Agreement. In FY80 and FY81, its rate of return
on revalued net fixed assets in operation was about 6.5%. In FY82, this is
expected to drop to about 5.4%. NPC-s financial position and rates would be
addressed through an energy component in the Bank-s proposed Second
Structural Adjustment Loan.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Loan No. 1547    Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Execution of the project is now complete. NEA's lending to
cooperatives for power development has increased by over 50% in the last two
years, and its financial results and condition continue to be satisfactory.
However, NEA's collation of the financial results of its client cooperatives
shows that a number are in financial difficulties. The Bank is monitoring
the situation closely, and is pressing NEA, as the regulatory agency, to
take all necessary remedial steps through rate increases improvements in
management, or other appropriate measures.
Loan No. 2181    Coal Exploration Project; $17 million Loan of September 18,
1982; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: December 18, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Signed in September 1981, this loan is expected to be declared
effective in December. Invitations to selected consulting firms have been
sent out and tender documents issued for items to be procured under ICB.
The principal outstanding condition of effectiveness is related to thet
execution of satisfactory exploration agreements between the Government and
the implementing agency. This is not, however, expected to delay
effectiveness.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1514    Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effective-
ness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The loan is now fully committed and project progress is satis-
factory. The closing date has been postponed by six months to allow for
completion of disbursements.
Loan No. 1555    Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding at a
satisfactory rate. The closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
for completion of disbursements.
Loan No. 1572    Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of $29.7 million for this component has been fully committed. However,
commitments under the loan for medium/large industry financing ($50 million)



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
and related disbursements are slower than anticipated at appraisal. The
closing date has been postponed by 18 months to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979 Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The IGLF component ($24.5 million) was fully disbursed by October
1981 and overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Disbursements
under the MASICAP component ($0.5 million) are slower than anticipated
because of the recent reorganization within the Ministry of Trade and
Industry. However, this component is expected to be completed before the
current closing date.
Loan No. 1984      Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 22, 1981
Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
The Central Bank has taken steps to strengthen its Apex
Development Finance Unit (ADFU), although staff resources will need further
strengthening. Some new private financial institutions have been or are in
the process of being accredited.  Commitments/disbursements are slower than
anticipated, however, due to the unfavorable economic climate. One of the
three original participating financial institutions - the Development Bank
of the Philippines - is currently facing severe financial problems, and will
need intensive supervision by the Bank and the ADFU. Cofinancing of $100 mil-
lion with commercial banks has been finalized and the Bank loan's early
maturities were suitably reduced to accommodate the high repayment install-
ments under the commercial borrowing.
Loan No. 2127      Textile Restructuring Project; $157.4 Million Loan of
June 30, 1982; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 30, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1988
Due to the depressed marked conditions, textile mills are reluctant
to come forward with investment proposals. The number of projects under
evaluation is therefore smaller than projected and delays in program
implementation are expected. Technical assistance to the joint evaluation
team of Board of Investment and Development Bank of the Philippines is
progressing satisfactorily. Also, substantial progress has been made in
sectoral training.
Loan No. 2169    Third Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$132 Million Loan of June 30, 1982; proposed Date of Effec-
tiveness: November 30, 1982; Closing Date: September 30,
1987
Signed in June 1982, it is expeced that this loan will be
effective in November 1982, two months later than originally anticipated.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903    Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the
Government's industrial development program in support of which the loan was
made. The first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff
reform and trade liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; the
second stage of this program became effective on January 1, 1982. Subsector
development programs are under preparation to assist domestic industries to
adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization measures. The two
requirements for the release of the second tranche of the loan were met by
the Government in July 1981. The second tranche was subsequently released
and, with the exception of the $5 million technical assistance component,
the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035    Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
With the exception of possible minor road works, all construction
is now under contract or complete. While project implementation under MOH
has improved, and better accounting practices are having a positive effect
on the disbursement rate, MOH staff's lack of familiarity with procurement
procedures has delayed contract awards for about $1.8 million worth of
equipment; the closing date will not, however, be extended further. MOH is
currently working on a project completion report.
Credit No. 923   Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The pace of implementation is now picking up and, from the level
of commitments made to date, disbursement performance should show a
significant improvement by mid-1983. Budget funds for 1982 have been
released for 325 of the 915 Barangay Health Stations to be completed using
community involvement, and community commitments have been received for 110
of these. However, procureaent of furniture, equipment and vehicles lags
seriously behind construction works. Both MOH and POPCOM's IEC activities
are well under way, and studies scheduled for 1982 have been committed. The
MIS component is proceeding slowly due to management uncertainties as to its
eventual use. MOH training is on schedule, but POPCOM's training activities
have been delayed by earlier cost overruns. The primary health care program
has been started in 15,000 barangays.



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:            13 months;  feasibility
studies and preliminary
-     engineering were conducted
during the period March 1981
through April 1982
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:          NEDA, MPWH, and the project
cities with assistance from
the Bank, Consultants and NHA
(c) First Bank mission to consider the
project:                                   February 1979
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:              March 1982
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                  March 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                August 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
An Urban Engineering Loan (Loan No. 2067-PH) was approved in
December 1981. Part of the loan proceeds financed detailed engineering and
completed the preparation of the proposed project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) the Government would provide the counterpart fund required by NHA
for this project in the form of equity (para. 49), and would limit
each city-s borrowings to a level which would not exceed its debt
servicing capacity (para. 50);
(b) the project cities would (i) by December 31, 1984 establish and
staff Municipal Enterprise Departments (para. 47(b)); (ii) increase
property and business tax collections and the tax rate on commercial
and industrial property to levels and in accordance with a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 50); and (iii) maintain municipal
enterprises as financially viable entities through adequate costing
systems and pricing policies, subject to an annual review of rents,
fees and charges (para. 54(b)); and



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) NHA would by June 30, 1984: (i) furnish to the Bank an accept-
able staffing study; and (ii) employ qualified senior staff to be
responsible for finance and for operations (para. 49). NRA would
also by December 31, 1983 begin implementing a cost recovery
program satisfactory to the Bank with respect to all of its sites
and services and slum upgrading projects (para. 54(a)).



i16'    CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES    -            12ti'                                                124                                                   18
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS
NCR NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION
I ILOCOS               YI WESTERN VISAYAS
1  llocs Nodte          37 Akian
2  Abro                 38 Copik 
320       Iocos- u             39 Antique                                         8                                            PHILIPPINES                                20'
4  M-otolo              40 11ib1
5 Lu I,,i.o              41 Negros aOcidentol                                                   REGIONAL  CITIES  DEVELOPMENT
6 loeguet            VIICENTRAL VISAYAS                                                          RE IN LCTEoEEOMN
7  P-egosin-e           42 Cehb
Tf CAGAYAN VALLEY         43 Negros OtePtRl
9 CoJgoyo               44 bohol SurPROJECT LOCATIONS
10  Koligo-Apoyoo  VIIEASTERN VISAYAS                          _                                                       PROJECT CITIES
N1 obelo                                                                                                               RJCTCTE
I  r             46  Northe- Somor                         -              ' \                                    OR
12  If-goo               47  SRmor                            I                                                         OTHER MAJOR CITIES
14   oocoViscoyo         48  Eoster Sor-or                       A         9                                     -       REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
DII CENTRAL LUZON          49 Leyte                                     L           /UDAIE
15  Noe-o Eu'           50  Soothrer Leyte                   l2   Tugjeguroo                                       -PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
16  Tarlo              X WESTERN MINDANAO                     2      0                                            ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
17  Zombu1-              51 Zombooega del Norfe                          ,
8  Popoesg              52 Zombooegu del Sur
19  Buloon.              53 Bosila                     1   3 14               IT      2
20  Eutoon               54 Solo~I-1
IV  SOUTHERN TAGALOG  55 TuItowi                                     12               /
21   Quezon             XNORTHERN MINDANAO              Biguiu      13    s
22   Rirol               56  Sutigou del Nurte     Lj 14 
160   23   Cool te              5 7  Comigen            L        og6'o14
24   Loguo               5   Aguso-  del Norte 
25   Boteg               59  Misomis Orieetol           7 
26  M.HFrdugue           60  Misami Occidental." 
27   MiedrorOrienrol     61 B             idn ton k     16
2E  MindoroOccdnents 162  Agusae del Sur            7" v_
29  REmbluon             SOUTHERN MINDANAO   Angeles  IS   19    0
Y 1ICOL                    64  Dovao Orientol           2QNCR
31  Comoric-s Norte      65 D-vao                                                   <3
32  C-mains Su,          66  D...i cdel Sur.,eei 29_g:                              ) 
33  Cote.duo.es          67  South Cotohoto .b't  42                          '9       31
34  Alhoy      ~~XII CENTRAL MINDANO                                                       ~3'2
36  Masbgte              68  L...o del Norte                                                     o \         33T
36  Mosbote        69  Loe- del OuS.,                                  'g 
70  North Cotoboto                                                          4I                             57 Fs
71IMogoiedonoo                        2
72  Soltue Kudorot              s          I   (
rlloeeters 0         I00         200          300                                                    l3--               46o!g         > r} 
,~~ ~                                                  7            (7  g  o >  t2    34. E4-T.
120    Miles 50            loo              200 301                                                                                                                        12
0sOUh   OH'/NA   _fSEr%t                                                     
-12-                                       Scd-y Gu0  2                                                                           12B  e  jft/
I                                                           /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
/Pero Prinesaoso                                                       ,z      4 1      
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
/ ~  ~~~~~                            61  XldA/    fS  7 
640
C1                                                         ~    ~ ~~~~~~~               ~        ~~~2 691   65 i 9 
5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9, z,                                                                   '64
CHINA         5                                                                               SISC- - <20   1                         I,-q                                6
'    <              F4~~~~C/f/C                                                 ZurnhooagoM    0//         i'       k -  7 %      (fi- 
m  on- iN                       l    n      x     [ t                71   \        ;    fDosot~61 X
VIET NAM           I VON    C                                               \        53                                           9 66X  Cu/
' st/              ",LIPPINES                                 lXb           '._                                             /              >
)  C5AOe       v54Ye                                                                                                67         esrlSno
- '    5=o  A tJh9rf             o                     w                  /                    /           /   ! /'~~~~~~~~~~F  5 5,'
PALAgW6    tfWp                                                                Of   85         SE                        7     u  Suse
-       F fV/JVDAANAO
B 5R U N E I G         w                             G H ;
MALAYJA                                             S                                          Tho stap hae bee. poPored br the World 8-k'B staff eocluyivel for the sonveneece  c0
N--A  -.                                                              ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 'h- -ed-e of tho roPoc to hO/e ul /o atthed. The deooooeoo sed cod the.
*     X       '^ -'  X~'J) sf                                  ther90dtrse ethoseo  poot mop do 000 /otlp. 0 _                     ttre pcn of phe World Book cud its       J
IS                                                               efflp <   _tlicteo. cotodementoe the loyal oltatoof oul-ter-het.ot -   or r vey d-Moroot 4or
NOCDf]N  &    I A   tI) 20~                                                                acecptooeofeouehkofuudoeiss o
___________________  ~~~~~~~?0.134f



