Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               rIlE COPY
Report No. 4094-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILLIPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 10, 1983
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Urban and Water Supply Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Peso (P)
US$1             =    P 9.0
Pesos 1          =    US$0.1111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (sq m)          =    10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                 =    10,000 square meters (sq m) or
2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEO    -  City Engineers Office
COA    -  Commission on Audit
CPM    -  City Project Manager
CPO    -  City Project Office
DPS    -  Department of Public Services
EPZA   -  Export Processing Zone Authority
MED    -  Municipal Enterprise Department
MHS    -  Ministry of Human Settlements
MIE    -  Mini Industrial Estate
MLG    -  Ministry of Local Government
MOB    -  Ministry of Budget
MOF    -  Ministry of Finance
MOTC   -  Ministry of Transportation and Communications
MOTI   -  Ministry of Trade and Industry
MPWH   -  Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NEDA   -  National Economic and Development Authority
NHA    -  National Housing Authority
O&M    -  Operation and Maintenance
PBAC   -  Prequalification, Bid and Award Committee
RCDP   -  Regional Cities Development Project
RCDPO  -  Regional Cities Development Project Office
SIR    -  Slum Improvement and Resettlement
UEL    -  Urban Engineering Loan
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND ...........            .............
A.  Urbanization Trends  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B.  Priorities in the Urban Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1-5
C.  Bank Lending Experience and Sector Strategy. . . . . . .   5-7
D.  The Project Cities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7-8
II.  THE PROJECT  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   9
A. Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
B. Main Features .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9-10
C.  Project Description  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   10-16
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1/
A.  Project Costs  .....................   17-19
B.  Financing Plan and Flow of Funds . . . . . . . . . . . .  19-21
IV.  KEY EXECUTING AGENCIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
A. City Governments .22-24
B. Ministry of Public Works and Highways  . . . . . . . . .  24-25
C. National Housing Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25-27
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT, AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . .  27
A. Project Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . .  27-28
B.  Implementation Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28-30
C.  Implementation Schedule  ........  ...  ..  ..   .   30
D.  Procurement and Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . .         30-32
E.  Operations and Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . .         32-33
F.  Land Acquisition ...................  .   33
G.  Accounts, Audits, Progress Reporting and Monitoring. . .  33-34
VI.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS  ....... .          ...........    34
A.  Cost Recovery and Service Pricing. . . . . . . . . . . .   34-37
B.  Municipal Finances ................  .   .    37-39
C.  Project Impact on Municipal Budgets  . . . . . . . . .    39-40
D.  Administering and Monitoring Municipal Finances  . . . .  40
This report is based on findings of preappraisal and appraisal missions which
visited the Philippines in November 1981, and March-April 1982 respectively.
The missions consisted of Messrs. Richard Podolske, Elmo Fernando, Stuart
Whitehead, Karl Willen, Carl Goderez (consultant); and Mrs. Shirin Velji.
Nonna Ponferrada assisted in the preparation of this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION  .......   ...........  .   41
A.  Economic Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41-42
B.  Urban Poverty Impact .........  ....  ...  .  .   42-43
C.  Environmental Impact .........  ....  ....   .   43
D.  Risks .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43-44
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED . . . . . . . .  44-46
ANNEXES
1. The Project Cities
2. Detailed Cost Estimates by City and Component
3. Urban Streets and Traffic Management Project Summary
4. Drainage Project Summary
5. Public Enterprises Project Summary
6. Equipment Lists for Sanitation, Solid Wastes Management, Drainage
and Road Maintenance
7. Shelter Project Summary
8. Technical Assistance and Training
9. National Housing Authority Finances
10. Municipal Financial Analysis:
Table 1. Summary of Municipal Revenues and Expenditures
Table 2.  Bacolod (Revenue Projections, Municipal Enterprise
Cash Flows, Shelter Cash Flows)
Table 3.  Cagayan de Oro (Revenue Projectiori, Municipal Enterprise
Cash Flows, Shelter Cash Flows)
Table 4.  Davao (Revenue Projections, Municipal Enterprise
Cash Flows, Shelter Cash Flows)
Table 5.  Iloilo (Revenue Projections, Municipal Enterprise
Cash Flows, Shelter Cash Flows)
11. Summary of Economic Benefits
12. List of Documents in Project File
SUPPORTING TABLES
Table 1: Agency Responsibilities for Project Implementation
Table 2: Agency Responsibilities for City Financed Components
Table 3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



- iii -
CHARTS
Chart 24079:  Flow of Funds
Chart Z4U81:  Typical City Organization
Chart 20838:  NHA Organization
Chart 24078:  Project Organization
Chart 24080:  Project Implementation Schedule
MAPS
16595 Location of Project Cities






I. BACKGROUND
A. Urbanization Trends
1.01      Urban Population.  The Philippines urban population in 1980 was
estimated at about 15.3 million people, approximately 31% of the total
national population of 49.4 million. Metropolitan Manila dominates the
Philippines urban scene with approximately 6.4 million persons (1980), or 42%
of the total urban population and 13% of the national population. There are
six additional urban areas with populations ranging from 200,000 to 1,000,000
and a further 20 urban centers with over 100,000 persons./l
1.02      Between 1960 and 1980 the urban population more than doubled
increasing at an average annual rate of above 3.6% as compared to 2.7% for the
total national population. Within the next 20 years the population of the
Philippines will have grown to approximately 80 million people. At least half
of this added population may have to be absorbed in urban areas even under
optimistic projections of rural employment growth.
1.03      Urban Poverty.  The absolute urban poverty threshold for the
Philippines in 1982 is estimated at $295 (P2,660) per person per year based
on food and non-food needs. Approximately 32% of families in urban areas
and about 80% of families in typical slum areas of major cities have per
capita incomes below that level. Both unemployment and underemployment are
serious problems and real incomes of the urban poverty group appear to have
stagnated or declined in recent years.
B. Priorities in the Urban Sector
1.04      Key Government Agencies and Investment Priorities.  The key
agencies with responsibilities for planning and spending for infrastructure
in urban areas are the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and
the Ministries of Public Works and Highways (MPWH), Human Settlements (MHS),
Local Government (MLG), and Trade and Industry (MOTI). While the Government
does not have a formal national urban development policy, there is general
consensus on key priorities that are described in paras. 1.05-1.12 below.
/1 Many of these cities include extensive rural areas which are not truly
urban; all figures are preliminary 1980 census findings.



-2-
1.05      Regional Development - In the past, intermediate and smaller cities
and their needs for infrastructure and industry have been neglected as a
focus of national policy. This has led to a striking disparity in the
provision of economic and social infrastructure in different urban areas. For
example, almost three-quarters of national industrial output is presently
located in Luzon (mostly within or near Metro Manila). While recognizing that
the greater Metro Manila area will continue to remain dominant, the Government
has become increasingly aware of the need for a spatially oriented development
policy and program that fully addresses the economic potential of other
regions. The concern is that more investments (and population) are being
attracted to Manila than is necessary, causing continued undesirable variances
in economic opportunity, and contributing to the delayed development of
outlying regions. The Government also acknowledges that within these regions
there are comparatively few urban areas that have the potential to become
major economic centers which have sufficient attractiveness to be reasonable
alternatives to Manila. Thus an investment strategy that emphasizes the
development of major regional cities becomes an important government priority.
1.06      With a view to redressing the present population and economic
imbalance, the Government is placing greater emphasis on regional investment
planning and on strengthening the regional institutional focus of concerned
ministries and agencies. Since 1972 all central government ministries have
been required to maintain regional offices in all of 13 designated regions;
these offices have been given considerable authority in proposing, preparing
and implemerntng significant projects and programs. NEDA k.as, since the
mid 1970s, been working on regional investment plans for each of the Nation's
regions. Partially as a result of these efforts, government attention has
been placed on achieving a more equitable distribution of central government
resources among regions. However, difficulties in implementing a Government
budgetary system based on agreed priorities, and inadequate responses by local
governments in planning and implementing approved programs, make the goal of
balanced regional development an elusive objective.
1.07      Industrial Development - The Government places a high priority on
increasing employment and industrialization to (a) increase the nation-s
overall economic output; (b) reduce the highly skewed income profile;
(c) absorb surplus farm labor; and (d) improve its balance of payments
position. Broadly, the objective is to develop an efficient and competitive
industrial structure based on the country-s comparative advantage with respect
to labor costs and availability of raw materials.
1.08      The Ministry of Trade and Industry (MOTI), through its Board of
Investments (BOI), has developed tax incentives to encourage business
enterprises and labor intensive industries to locate outside Metro Manila.
However, these incentives have had a tendency to be capital intensive and
have had little, if any, spatial impact. A number of organizations provide
technical assistance and loans to small and medium scale industries. While
these organizations provide a good foundation for assistance9 they are still



- 3 -
too fragmented and weak to be fully effective. The Bank is assisting the
overall development of a number of these organizations through small and
medium scale industry loans (SMI) and in overall industrial investments and
policy reforms through structural adjustment lending (SAL)./l
1.09      One key aspect of the Government-s industrial promotion program is
the provision of export processing zones and industrial estates of various
sizes along with improved access to credit and technical assistance. Among
several agencies active in this area, the Export Processing Zone Authority
(EPZA), created in 1972 as a government corporation, is the most important.
It has so far developed three export processing zones, and is constructing
an additional estate, in different locations in the Philippines.
1.10      To provide for employment generation, and to strengthen EPZA's
administrative capabilities, an EPZA operated export processing zone/regular
industrial estate was originally included in each of the four cities under
the proposed RCDP project. Based on feasibility studies financed under a
UNDP grant,/2 Bank appraisal proved this component justifiable, subject to
EPZA undertaking certain administrative and organizational reforms, and
improving on its financial performance and planning. However, the Government
subsequently withdrew the EPZA component from the project. The Government
decided that without the establishment of a comprehensive long-term
development plan for the sector it would be premature to build additional
estates of larger size. The Government decided to merge existing agencies
under one consolidated, nationwide umbrella organization, and to develop
consistent policies in areas such as marketing, pricing, operation and
maintenance of industrial estates.
1.11      In view of these considerations, it has been agreed that the balance
of the UNDP grant, supplemented by funding under the RCDP project as neces-
sary, will provide necessary technical assistance to the Government, to
prepare a realistic nationwide investment program for export processing zones/
industrial estates. This will also include an institutional review, focussing
on agency responsibilities in planning, design, construction, marketing,
operation and maintenance of such estates. It is expected that this prepara-
tory work will result in a separate export processing zone/industrial estates
project that would be suitable for external financing.
/1 For further background, see Staff Appraisal Report No. 3838-PH "Third
Small and Medium Industries Development Project" and President's Report
No. P2872-PH entitled "Structural Adjustment Loan to the Republic of the
Philippines."
/2 Technical assistance to the "Nationwide Industrial Estates Program,"
financed under a UNDP grant for which the Bank is executing agency.



- 4-
1.12      Municipal Infrastructure and Services - Most of the country's cities
and municipalities have not kept pace with expanding demands for provision of
basic infrastructure, partly because of financial and managerial constraints
at the local level, and partly due to other national priorities. Government
has recognized the need for substantial improvements in the provision of
urban infrastructure (most notably water supply systems and urban streets)
and urban services (such as solid wastes management and municipal markets).
These facilities and services are needed (a) to remove bottlenecks to
economic development,especially in the larger secondary cities located
outside Metro Manila where the "take-off" potential is greatest; and (b) to
improve living conditions, particularly for the urban poor, in all
Philippine cities.
1.13      The most significant Government efforts towards alleviating these
deficiencies are concentrated in the Ministry of Public Works and Highways
(MPWH) and its attached corporations which have had continuing programs of
direct investments in urban areas. In 1979, the MPWH has established a
program to assist cities in planning and developing their facilities and
services using principally local staff and financial resources./l The Local
Water Utilities Administration (LWUA), created in 1973, has moved rapidly
into a large scale program of providing financing and technical assistance
to local water districts; similarly, the Manila based Metropolitan Water
Works and Sewerage System (MWSS) has embarked on an ambitious program to
expand water source development and distribution in the National Capital
area.
1.14      Shelter - Virtually all Philippine cities have large squatter and
slum settlements which typically constitute between 20% to 35% of their total
population. These densely populated areas typically lack safe water supply,
drainage, human waste disposal, and public access. Available studies
indicate disease rates and infant mortality from 3 to 8 times worse than for
non-slum areas of these cities and a level of disease and malnutrition higher
than their low income counterparts in rural areas. While the Government's
shelter programs have increased over the last few years, they still are not
at a large enough scale to prevent growth of slum populations.
1.15      Since the creation of the National Housing Authority/2 (NHA) in
1975, a major re-orientation of Government shelter policy has been underway,
moving from squatter removal and relocation and towards (a) improvement of
/1 The program is entitled "PREMIUMED" (Program for Essential Municipal
Infrastructure, Utilities, Maintenance, and Engineering Development).
/2 This agency was established to consolidate Government housing efforts,
previously dispersed among six agencies.



-5-
existing slums and (b) servicing urban land for low income settlement.
Several local governments are organized and staffed to prepare shelter
projects in conjunction with the NHA. The slum improvement program is now
established in five regional cities and in Metro Manila. New sites and
services projects are also under construction in Manila and in seven regional
cities. Provision of commercial/industrial plots is a regular feature of
sites and services projects sponsored by NHA. In addition to these programs
of basic services the Ministry of Human Settlements (MHS) /1 has introduced a
housing program called "Bagong Lipunan Improvements and Sites and Services"
(BLISS). The principal concept is the development of mixed income communities
with emphasis on employment and a degree of self-sufficiency. The Government
established the National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC) in 1978 to
provide a secondary market for home mortgages, thus further strengthening the
government role in the sector.
1.16      Urban Management - Philippine cities and municipalities suffer from
a shortage of qualified professional/managerial staff (due in large part to
low salary scales) and insufficient levels of locally generated revenues to
make satisfactory inroads in meeting the municipal infrastructure and service
deficiencies. Central governmental agencies, which have largely filled the
void, cannot be expected to continue carrying their current share of the
responsibility as the urban areas become larger thus requiring more
sophisticated solutions by local officials. Substantial improvements by the
cities in physical and financial planning, tax generation, infrastructure
development, and operation and maintenance of urban services are needed.
Ministries of Local Government (MLG) and Finance (MOF), among others, are
assisting local governments in developing the general administrative and
financial mechanisms. These agencies, along with the MPWH with its technical
expertise, are improving local governmental training programs and are
strengthening their own regional staffs to assist local governments.
C. Bank Lending Experience and Sector Strategy
1.17      The Bank has to-date made three loans in support of urban develop-
ment. The First Urban Loan to the Philippines (1272-TW and 1282-PH), which
became effective in December 1976, concentrated on upgrading the environment
of 160,000 persons living in Tondo, the country's largest slum area, located
in Manila. The project also included a traffic management and road construc-
tion component. The second loan (1647-PH), which became effective in April
1979, financed a large sites and services project at Dagat-Dagatan in Manila,
/1 This ministry was established in July 1978 with responsibilities for
municipal planning, especially land-use planning, environmental
management, technical assistance and regulations.



- 6 -
and sites and services and slum upgrading in three regional cities: Davao,
Cebu, and Cagayan de Oro. The third loan (1821-PH) became effective in
September 1980 and addressed the provision of basic needs and productivity
growth of the low income families in Metro Manila. This third project
expanded upon the slum upgrading and sites and services programs in Manila
begun under the first two projects and added the concept of low cost secondary
and tertiary infrastucture (roads, drainage, utilities) within slum zones
without penetrating onto private property. This component called MMINUTE /1
is designed to improve living and sanitary conditions for a larger number of
people more quickly and at lower cost than could be achieved through slum
upgrading and sites and services. A complementary program called PROGRESS /2,
financed by a Bank-supported Sewerage and Sanitation project (Loan 1814-PH),
seeks to upgrade the sanitation of these slum areas by provision of facilities
such as toilets and combined sewers.
1.18      After initial delays, all three urban projects are well underway
and are providing a sound basis upon which to expand the Government's urban
program./3 Favorable features of the shelter portion of the first three
projects to date include: (a) positive beneficiary response to the pro-
grams; demand far exceeds supply, and (b) the willingness of families to
invest large sums in their homes (especially after tenure is assured). The
traffic management and road construction component under Urban I is making a
substantial impact on traffic speeds, safety, and throughput on effected
streets. The provision of secondary and tertiary infrastructure to provide
basic urban services to the urban poor in Metro Manila under Urban III is
off to a good start. Costs are holding to planned levels and the MPWH is
planning to substantially expand the program. Results from the livelihood
programs aimed at small scale enterprises in the three urban projects are
still inconclusive. While there is clearly a demand for these programs,
disbursements have been slow. A key part of the problem is substantial
governmental institutional fragmentation in providing technical assistance
and financing and overly bureaucratic administrative procedures on the part
of the financing agencies. The principal difficulties with the urban
projects to date have been (a) slow startup times (principally due to land
acquisition problems), (b) less than satisfactory contractor performance and
/1 Metro Manila Infrastructure, Utilities and Engineering Program.
/2 Program for Removing Sewage from Streets.
/3 Urban I, with the exception of separate sewer outfall and major road
packages to be completed in 1983 and 1984 respectively, will be completed
in 1983; Urban II will be completed in 1984; Urban III completion is
estimated in 1985. As of August 1, 1982 Urban I, II, III were completed
approximately 85%, 60% and 30% respectively.



construction supervision by implementing agencies on some components,
resulting in cost overruns and delayed completion, and (c) lagging collection
from shelter beneficiaries due in part to uncompleted works and in part to
absence of appropriate mechanisms of enforcement. These difficulties are
being addressed through measures aimed at strengthening the management and
staffing of NHA (see paras. 4.11-4.12) and the involved cities.
1.19      Future Bank lending in the sector will continue to build on the
approach developed under the first three loans to provide basic urban
services and shelter at affordable costs. However, greater emphasis will be
placed on improving urban management, institution building and increased
resource mobilization. The development of central level intermediaries to
channel funds and technical assistance to local governments for planning,
management and finance will be pursued as longer-term objectives. In accord
with government strategy for decentralization, an increased proportion of
lending will be devoted to assist cities and regions outside Metro Manila.
D. The Project Cities
1.20      Basis for Selection.  The Government has selected four of the
nation's largest cities - Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro, Davao, and Iloilo - for the
purposes of its first major urban intervention outside Metro Manila (see Map
16595). These cities have urban populations ranging from about 180,000 to
420,000 persons. The principal criterion for selecting these cities was their
considerable economic "take-off" potential as key regional centers./l They
also have an extensive slum dwelling population requiring the provision of
basic services. The cities are either regional capitals (Cagayan de Oro,
Davao and Iloilo) or the major urban centers (Bacolod) for the island on which
they are located. With the exception of Iloilo, their populations are growing
at a pace faster than the national urban average. (Iloilo, however, has
considerable growth potential because of several major projects being imple-
mented in that city). The cities economies are not well developed especially
considering their relatively rich agricultural hinterlands. The principal
project strategy, therefore, will be to accelerate the economic development of
these cities by removing infrastructure bottlenecks (See Annex 1 for further
description of the project cities).
/1 Outside Metro Manila, only Cebu and Zamboanga are larger than any of the
proposed project cities. The infrastructure deficiencies of Cebu will
be addressed in part by the Central Visayas Regional Project (CVRP)
currently under preparation.



- 8 -
1.21      Current Infrastructure and Service Deficiencies in Project Cities.
The proposed project cities are experiencing deficiencies in infrastructure,
services, management, and finances similar to those of most Philippine
cities. Areas needing particular attention are described briefly below.
1.22      City Streets and Maintenance - The quality of city streets varies
dramatically among and within cities. Davao, in particular, needs major
investments in its road network both to rehabilitate roads which have
seriously deteriorated, and to expand capacity for anticipated major
increases in traffic volumes; Cagayan de Oro needs traffic capacity improve-
ments in the city center. All four cities need some road expansion to
accommodate new urban growth; and substantial improvements to the road
maintenance program are needed in all cities.
1.23      Drainage and Sanitation - Two cities, Davac and Cagayan de Oro,
have extensive drainage problems that require particular attention to reduce
health problems, to enhance land development potentials, and to reduce road
deterioration. All four cities require substantial improvements in solid
wastes management and sanitation programs. Over half of all solid wastes
generated are not collected, and there are no regular septic tank emptying
services in any of the cities. These deficiencies, in aggregate, add up to a
serious health hazard problem.
1.24      Municipal Enterprises - Important public service facilities
including markets, slaughterhouses, and bus terminals are in a state of
disrepair or disorganization in all four project cities. Markets, in
particular, are unsanitary, overcrowded, and in poor physical condition due
to poor maintenance. Slaughterhouses either have been condemned by public
authorities or are operating under very unsanitary conditions. Inter-city
bus terminals are typically scattered throughout the central areas of the
cities, deterring inter-city and intracity bus connections and contributing
to traffic congestion.
1.25      Shelter - Between 18-33% of all urban households in the project
cities live in squatter and slum settlements without secure tenure and lack
safe water supply, drainage, human waste disposal and clean access. While
the initial slum upgrading programs in Cagayan de Oro and Davao, and the
sites and services project in Davao are all progressing under the Urban II
project (Loan 1647-PH), this shelter program has only been a useful start.
The program needs to be maintained in Cagayan de Oro, enlarged in Davao, and
initiated in Bacolod and Iloilo on as large a scale as local financial and
managerial resources will permit.
1.26      City Administration - The project cities are not adequately
staffed or managed to cope with the above described deficiencies. Major
strengthening is needed in overall city administration, public works
administration, financial planning and tax administration. In general,
project city staffs are undermanned and underpaid at the professional and
managerial levels and overstaffed with temporary and casual labor at lower
levels. (See also para. 4.03).



- 9 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.01      The objectives of the Regional Cities Development Project (RCDP)
are:
(a) to stimulate economic decentralization and regional growth in the
four project cities through reduction of infrastructure
bottlenecks;
(b) to assist the cities in strengthening municipal institutions,
particularly in finance and in implementation, operation and
maintenance of urban facilities;
(c) to strengthen further MPWH and NHA administrative abilities
in providing municipal infrastructure and shelter respectively;
and
(d) to improve basic social services including shelter, public health
and safety, and urban mobility with particular emphasis on the
needs of the urban poor.
B. Main Features
2.02      The project comprises the following activities in the four
cities: /1
(a) Urban transport ($28.6 million): provision of (i) about 9 km of
new streets, about 32 km of upgraded or rehabilitated existing
streets, and limited traffic engineering measures and (ii) improved
road maintenance capability, including a new maintenance depot in
Davao, upgrading of existing depots in other project cities, and
vehicles, plant, equipment and tools;
(b) Sanitation and drainage ($16.8 million): provision of (i) solid
wastes management measures, including new dump sites, and vehicles
and equipment; (ii) improved sanitation measures, including
equipment and civil works (Iloilo and Bacolod); and (iii) drainage
works, comprising about 26 km of open or closed storm drains
including laterals, and related maintenance equipment;
/1 Cost includes design and supervision, land, and physical and price
contingencies.



- 10 -
(c)  Municipal enterprises ($11.2 million): provision of (i) six new
markets and 10 rehabilitated markets; (ii) two new slaughter
houses (Cagayan de Oro and Davao); and (iii) two new bus terminals
(Cagayan de Oro and Davao);
(d)  Shelter ($38.4 million): provision of (i) sites and services at
nine sites in the four cities with a total of about 9,580 residen-
tial plots and benefiting about 78,300 persons including grant of
tenure, and infrastructure, sanitary, health, education and
community facilities; (ii) about 660 serviced commercial/industrial
plots generating employment for about 6,500 people; and (iii) slum
upgrading, about 6,900 plots serving over 55,000 people, in ten
different slum areas in the four cities including grant of tenure,
improved infrastructure and sanitary facilities; and (iv) loans
for building materials for residential structures;
(e)  Livelihood zone pilot project ($2.9 million):  Provision of
one mini-industrial estate in Davao, totalling about 5 ha of
developed land, with serviced industrial plots, standard factory
buildings and neecessary off-site infrastructure, to generate
employment for about 1,200 people; and
(f)  Technical assistance and training ($16.2 million): (i) to MPWH,
NEDA, NHA, and the project cities for assistance in project
implementation; (ii) to MOF, MLG, and the cities for institu-
tional strengthening and training; and (iii) to MPWH, MOTC,
MOTI and NEDA for future project preparation and related studies.
C. Project Description
Urban Transport
2.03      City Streets.  (a) Bacolod - Three road segments totaling 5 km
including two bridges will form part of a bypass around the eastern part of
the city. These improvements are expected to (i) improve access to an
existing commercial port, (ii) provide improved access to two new sites and
services areas, (iii) provide a bypass for heavy truck traffic, and (iv) open
up new areas for urban development. (b) Cagayan de Oro - Road improvements in
this city consist mainly of widening and rehabilitating 5 km of major arterial
roads and improving of sidewalks to facilitate vehicular traffic flow in and
around the city center and to ease traffic congestion, particularly around two
major markets. An additional 4 km of major roadways will receive street
lighting. (c) Davao - Major improvements are planned for 17 km of Davao's
principal arterial street system, including rehabilitation, widening, and the
provision of sidewalks. An additional 1 km of new road will also be
constructed. The improvements are intended to facilitate traffic movement to
and around the central area of the city. A bridge over the Davao River with
about 7 km of improved approach roads will facilitate the only direct link to



- 11 -
the Paquibato district of Davao.  (d)  Iloilo - Two new road segments
totalling about 3 km will be constructed to open up prime development areas,
to provide improved port access, and to connect a new sites and services area
(Mandurriao) with the road network./l In addition, minor traffic management
schemes, will be undertaken in all the four cities. (See Annex 3 for specific
information on the road improvement and construction program in the four
cities.)
2.04      Road Maintenance.  The project will provide for the following
investment activities in the four cities: (a) Construction of one new main-
tenance depot in Davao, and upgrading of existing depots in Iloilo, Bacolod
and Cagayan de Oro; (b) procurement and installation of additional workshop
equipment; and (c) procurement of additional road maintenance vehicles and
equipment, including spare parts, and tools and equipment for maintenance
teams. Vehicles and equipment for solid wastes management (para. 2.05),
sanitation (para. 2.07), and drainage (para. 2.08) will also be serviced and
repaired in the above depots. In addition, the project will provide for
various measures to improve maintenance performance by the four cities
(para. 5.20). (See Annex 6 for details of plant, equipment and vehicles under
the project.)
Sanitation and Drainage
2.05      Solid Wastes Management.  This component will assist the Department
of Public Services (DPS) in each project city to improve efficiency and
collection rates, which now range between 35 and 50%.  During the project
period operations and maintenance will be rationalized and additional vehicles
and equipment will be procured to increase collection rates to about 60 to 80%
of total solid wastes generation. Collection service will reach into slums
and other low income areas, which are presently underserviced or unserviced.
Handcarts will be used in such areas with limited access for larger vehicles.
This will be organized by barangay captains and encourage community
participation. The garbage will be transferred to containers served by
special container trucks. Containers will also serve markets, while regular
dump trucks will serve accessible households and industrial areas. All
collected garbage will be disposed of at new dump sites operating with
sanitary landfill methods.
2.06      Sanitation.  No comprehensive waterborne sewerage systems exist in
the cities - or in any other Philippine city outside Metro Manila. Many
households, private establishments and public facilities use water sealed
flush toilets connected with septic tanks; but existing tank emptying
/1 In addition, Iloilo city will acquire a right-of-way with a minimum
20 m width for a 7 km extension of the port access road (see Map 16596).



- 12 -
services are inadequate resulting in overflows and potential health hazards.
Existing stormwater systems also receive sewage resulting in blockages causing
flooding and creating health and environmental problems.
2.07      The DPS in Iloilo and Bacolod will initiate pilot prugrams through
the provision of sewer jetting and vacuum vehicles, suitable for regular
emptying of septic tanks, and for maintenance of drainage systems and sewer
networks in new sites and services areas. In Bacolod, severe health risks
are caused by an old and dilapidated sewerage and drainage system, at the
Provincial Hospital. A new system including a simple incinerator for
pathogenic wastes will be installed. Finally, a compost latrine pilot
project will be carried out in some slum areas in Bacolod, to test different
designs and to determine the viability of compost latrine operations.
2.08      Drainage.  In Cagayan de Oro and Davao, maste.tlans have been
prepared to establish priorities for justifiable drainage works, covering
catchment areas in existing urban areas as well as future developments. In
Cagayan de Oro, a 3-phase program will be implemented. It comprises about
7,045 m of open and closed storm drains, and about 8,000 m of laterals
focussing on swampy areas in Poblacion, Carmen and Nazareth. In Davao,
drainage works will focus on four catchment areas (Roxas Avenue, Quirino
Avenue, Dacudao Avenue, and part of Agdao Creek) inside the Poblacion, and one
outside (Lanang). Within these areas a 3-phase program will be implemented,
comprising about 5,125 m of open and closed storm drains and about 4,820 m of
laterals. In Iloilo, the drainage works consist of cleaning, repairing and
extending five major outfalls totalling about 820 m, at the interface of a new
fish port that is being constructed on reclaimed land. Embankment protection
works for the new sites and services project at Mandurriao and repair of the
seawall at the Bo. Obrero slum upgrading project are also included. In
Bacolod, drainage works totalling about 1,250 m aim at protection of existing
outfalls which have been cut off by a reclamation project, and include
repairs, improvements and riprap protection to-the reclamation drainage. In
all the four cities, equipment for maintenance of drainage works will also be
provided. (See Annex 4 for further detail.)
Municipal Enterprises
2.09      Market rehabilitation in the four cities will include structural
upgrading, improved water supply, sanitation, pavements, etc., in ten existing
markets totalling about 11.7 ha. The project also provides for six new
markets in the four cities. These new markets ranging in size from 2.2 ha to
1 ha, are of simple but attractive design. They are sized to meet demand over
the project period, with flexible structures that will allow easy expansion
and conversion from one type of commodity to another, as demand changes. (See
Annex 5 for further detail.)
2.10      Slaughterhouses.  Cagayan de Oro and Davao have given high priority
for inclusion of new slaughtering facilities under the project. Designs will
be based on guidelines issued by the statutory regulatory authority - the



- 13 -
National Meat Inspection Commission (NMIC) - and designed to City retail
requirements. These slaughterhouses will be equipped to handle an estimated
initial throughput of 250 hogs and 35 large animals per day for Cagayan de Oro
and 400 hogs and 50 large animals per day for Davao and will be managed by the
new Municipal Enterprises Departments (MEDs) (para. 5.06). Slaughtering will
be carried out by skilled butchers contracted by animal dealers utilizing the
facility.
2.11      Bus Terminals.  Central bus terminals will be constructed in Davao
and Cagayan de Oro where all intercity operators will originate and terminate
their runs. Provisions will be made for transfer to jeepney services which
will be the prime form of intra-city distribution of bus passengers.
Shelter
2.12      Sites and Services.  This component responds to existing and
projected demand in the four project cities for developed land for settlement
by low and moderate income families. Ongoing Bank supported SIR programs /1
in Cagayan de Oro (770 plots) and Davao (2,200 plots) will be continued and
new programs will be introduced in Iloilo and Bacolod. A total of about 9,580
residential plots will be provided in the four cities. Beneficiaries will be
selected on the basis of established criteria with highest priority given to
those displaced by other project components, and those who move from slum
areas where improvements would be technically and/or financially infeasible.
Up to eight different plot sizes, ranging from 50 to 150 square meters have
been proposed, to correspond to the effective demand of the target
population. Each plot will be provided with a sanitary core with either water
born sewerage or a pit privy, as well as water connection, electricity, and
footpath or road access. Building materials loans will be made available
through the SIR offices, to assist residents of sites and services and slum
upgrading (see para. 2.13) components to build or upgrade their homes. The
sites will be serviced by a regular solid wastes collection service (para.
2.05 ). Cross subsidy, both by internal price differentials and by sale of
small commercial/industrial plots will help to make the sites and services
affordable for all households between 15% to 70% on the household income scale
(see para. 6.03). Community facilities (schools, health clinics and barangay
halls) in cases where they are inadequate or nonexistent in adjacent areas
will be provided on a site specific basis. Finally, a total of about 660
plots will be provided on about 22 ha for small scale industrial/commercial
activities. NHA and the project cities will provide assistance in directing
entrepreneurs to appropriate technical and financial assistance channels./2
Salient features of the sites and services component are summarized in Table
II-1 below; further details are provided in Annex 7.
/1 "Slum Improvement and Resettlement Program," under Loan 1677-PH.
/2 See Staff Appraisal report (3838-PH) for a description of the Third
Small and Medium Industries Project that will assist in developing
these channels.



- 14 -
Table II-1: RCDP SITES AND SERVICES
Iloilo   Bacolod   Cagayan de Oro    Davao       Total
Total number of
residential plots        1,857      2,869          855         4,000      9,581
Total number of
beneficiaries           14,900    23,000         6,900        33,500    78,300
Total number of commer-
cial/industrial plots      150        183          100           226        659
2.13      Slum Upgrading.  The aggregate slum population in the four cities
(242,000) is about 22% of the total urban population (1.1 million). Priority
areas for upgrading have been identified, affecting about 6,900 plots or about
55,000 people. Levels of upgrading vary, depending on site specific condi-
tions. Common features are grant of tenure to present occupiers, improvements
to basic infrastructure, and house improvement loans. Layouts consider
existing densities and community preferences; where space is available, infill
plots will be created. Costs of on-site improvement will be recovered from
the beneficiaries. It is expected that slum upgrading will be affordable for
about 85% to 90% of households through utilization of (a) lot-size and
lot-location price differentials, (b) cross subsidies from profits and sale of
small business plots, and (c) low cost technologies. Those with lower incomes
will have to rent shelter facilities as being done now. Further detail is
given in Annex 8.
Livelihood Zone Pilot Project
2.14      As mentioned in paras. 1.07-1.11, pending the outcome of a
nationwide long-term development planning exercise, and a related institu-
tutional and organizational review, the Government has deferred the decision
to provide regular industrial estates in the four cities under the project.
However, the Government has requested and the Bank has agreed that subject to
a mutually acceptable feasibility study, a city operated mini industrial
estate (MIE) on a pilot basis will be provided in Davao. This development, to
be locally called a "livelihood zone", will be located on 5 ha adjacent to the
Agdao sites and services scheme under the project. About 70 enterprises,
employing between 5 and 25 workers, would be provided with serviced industrial
lots and a number of standardized workshop buildings. Pre-marketing
activities amongst the city's small-scale industry associations indicate that
a high potential demand exists for the proposed MIE facility. Based on these
studies, it is expected that the MIE would reach 70% occupancy by the end of
first year operations, and 100% by the end of the second year, generating
employment for about 1,200 people.  This component, providing also assistance



- 15 -
in marketing, product design, workshop layout and training, will test the
city's ability to run a MIE as a viable operation. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that disbursement against this component will be
conditional upon a feasibility study which is acceptable to the Bank.
Technical Assistance and Training
2.15      The Technical assistance and training package included in the pro-
ject is described briefly below. More extensive descriptions are included
in Annex 8 including study objectives, activities, staffing, the timing of
terms of reference and key program outputs. Costs indicated in paras 2.16-
2.18 below include contingencies, and funding provided by the Urban
Engineering Loan 2067-PH. This US$8 million loan, which became effective in
May 1982, assists the Government through NEDA in preparation of the proposed
project and a Central Visayas Regional Project./l About $3.8 million from the
Urban Engineering Loan are being used for this project to finance detailed
engineering ($1.5 million), advisory services for project implementation ($2.2
million), and institutional strengthening and training ($0.1 million)./2
2.16      Advisory Services for Project Implementation ($5.4 million).
Technical assistance by expatriate consultants in the period May/June 1982 -
June/July 1983 is financed under the Urban Engineering Loan ($2.26 million).
The Government recognizes the need for further assistance by expatriate
consultants to supplement local skills and provide on-the-job training in
certain disciplines. This foreign input will eventually be phased out over
the project implementation period, and will be replaced by local consultants
and local professional staff. The project will therefore provide further
expatriate advisory services to assist:
(a) NEDA and MPWH in project implementation and monitoring
commencing June 1983 (116 additional man-months by foreign
consultants); and
(b) NRA in engineering, implementation and monitoring of shelter
components commencing August 1983 (104 additional man-months by
foreign consultants).
/1 Formerly referred to as the Central Visayas Urban Project. NEDA was
assisted in project preparation by COWIConsult, (Denmark), Gilmore,
Hankey, Kirke Partnership (UK), and Renardet S.A. - Sauti/ Louis
Berger International (Italy/USA).
/2 See report P-3150-PH for a description of the Urban Engineering Loan
(UEL); services provided to the project under the UEL are expected to
be completed by October 1983.



- 16 -
2.17      Institutional Strengthening and Training ($2.7 million).  Technical
assistance, training and related equipment will be provided as follows:
(a) to the MOF to assist in the implementation and monitoring of
local government revenue reforms (about 12 man-months by foreign
consultants), and to introduce improved records management systems
including improved computational equipment and development of
software (about 20 man-months of foreign and 10 man-months of
local consultant assistance);
(b) to MLG, to support a municipal training program focussing on
planning, management and maintenance of municipal services.
The program will consist of technical assistance, course
preparation and training and attendant equipment and facili-
ties (about 20 man-months by foreign consultants and about
42 man-months by local consultants).
2.18      Future Project Preparation and Related Studies (US$8.1 million).
Assistance will be provided for forward planning, feasibility studies, and
detailed engineering as follows:
(a) to MPWH to assist in detailed engineering of a proposed Secondary
Cities Project (about 48 man-months by foreign consultants and
about 265 man-months by local consultants);
(b) to MOTC and MPWH, to assist in preparation of a Metro Manila
Urban Transport Investment Study (about 97 man-months by foreign
consultants and about 235 man-months by local consultants);
(c) to MOTC, for advisory services in support of national transpor-
tation planning (about 81 man-months by foreign consultants);
and
(d) to NEDA, for studies to identify and prepare future projects
including (i) a national industrial estates investment strategy
study (about 35 man-months by foreign consultants and about
20 man-months by local consultants), (ii) an urban/regional
study, (about 44 man-months by foreign consultants and about
26 man-months by local consultants), and (iii) technical assis-
tance for future project preparation (about 50 man-months by
foreign consultants and about 160 man-months by local
consultants).



- 17 -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
3.01      Total project cost, including (a) physical and price contingencies
and land acquisition, and (b) P 34 million for detailed engineering and
technical assistance financed from the Urban Engineering Loan, but excluding
taxes and duties which are not borne by the agencies, is estimated at
P 1,027 million ($114.1 million). In addition, a front-end fee on the Bank
loan of $0.5 million brings total financing required to P 1,031 million
($114.6 million). Land acquisition costs are estimated at P 72 million
($8.0 million).  Summary cost estimates are set out in Table III-1, and
detailed cost estimates by city and component are given in Annex 2.
3.02      Cost estimates are based on (a) preliminary engineering designs
for all civil works; (b) latest quotations by domestic and international
suppliers of goods who have recently submitted bids for similar kinds of
plant, vehicles and equipment; and (c) the prices of technical assistance
contracts executed in 1982. Detailed engineering designs for all components
are being prepared by consultants financed under the Urban Engineering Loan.
Designs for components to be implemented during the first 12 to 18 months were
substantially completed by March 1983; tender documents will be completed by
May/June 1983.
3.03      Costs for consultant services have been estimated as follows:/l
(a) for advisory services in support of project implementation (see
para. 2.16), 220 man-months of foreign consultancy services at a
total cost of $2.7 million;
(b) for advisory services in support of institutional strengthening
and training (see para. 2.17) at a total cost of $0.82 million
comprised of about 52 man-months of foreign consultants and about
52 man-months of local consultants; and
(c) for advisory services in support of future project preparation and
related studies (para. 2.18) at a total cost of $6.8 million
comprised of about 355 man-months of foreign consultants and about
706 man-months of local consultants.
The total estimated costs above are based on average man-months costs of
about $12,400 for foreign consultants and about $3,400 for local consultants.
These costs include the cost of fees, local allowances, and international
travel as appropriate, but exclude price contingencies, vehicles, local
transportation, and equipment.
/1 Exclusive of consultant services financed under the Urban Engineering
Loan and of contingencies.



-18-
TABLE III-I: SUMMARY OF PROJET COST 1/
-------P MILLION ---------            -------S MILLION ---------             FOREIGN
CATEGORY                            FOREIGN    LOCAL    TOTAL 2/          FOREIGN    LOCAL    TOTAL              AS I OF
TOTAL
URBAN TRANSPORT                           72.19    85.47   157,66                 8,02      9.50    17.52
CITY STREETS                            48.46    72.68   121.14                 5,38      8.08    13.46                  40
ROAD MAINTENANCE                        23.74    12.78    36.52                 2.64      1.42     4.06                  65
DRAINAGE I SANITATION                     50.54    43.71    94.25                 5.62      4,86    10,47
DRAINAGE                                24,12    29,48    53.60                 2.68     3.28      5.96                  45
SANITATION                               4,15      2.24      6.39               0.46     0.25      0.71                  65
SOLID WASTES MANAGEMENT                 22.27    11.99    34.26                 2.47     1.33      3.81                 65
MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISES                     25.30    62.72    88.02                 2.81     6.97      9.78
MARKETS                                 12.26    36.77    49,02                 1.36     4.09      5.45                 25
SLAUGHTERHOUSES                          3.00      8.99    11.99                0.33      1.00     1.33                 25
BUS TERMINALS                            2.64      7.91    10.55                0.29     0.88      1.17                  25
LIVELIHOOD ZONE                          7.41      9.05    16.46                0.82     1.01      1.83                 45
SHELTER                                   50.15   143.31   193.46                 5.57    15.92    21.50
SITES I SERVICES                        35.05   105.14   140.18                 3,89    11.68    15.58                  25
UPGRADING                               15.10    38.18    53.28                 1.68     4,24      5.?2                  28
LAND                                       0.00    72.08    72.08                 0.00      8.01     8.01                   0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 1                    75.63    50.42   126.05                 8.40     5.60    14.01                   60
TRAINING
BASE COST e APR 1983 PRICES              273.81   457.71   731.52                30.42    50.86    81,28                   37
CONTINGENCIES-
FHYSICAL 3/                      24.48    40.74    65.22                2.72      4.53      7.25                 38
PRICE 4/                         85.93   143.87   229.80                9.56    15.98    25.53                   37
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     384.22   642.32  1026.54                42.70    71.36   114.06                  37
FRONT END FEE ON BANK LOAN                 4.49      0.00      4.49               0.50     0.00      0.50                 100
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED               388.71   642.32  1031.03                43.20    71.36   114.56 4/               38
1/ DUE TO COMPUTER ROUNDING TO TWO DECIMALS IN TOTALS, LAST DIGIT DIFFERS SLIGHTLY FROM SUM OF COLUMNS.
2/ INCLUDES P34.04 MILLION FOR DETAILED ENGINEERING I TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FINANCED FROM THE URBAN ENGINEERING LOAN
(2067 PH)
3/ PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES ARE 15Z OF BASE COST EXCEPT FOR SLUH UPGRADING & MARKET REHABILITATION ON WHICH 20X HAS
BEEN ADDED.
4/PRICE CONTINGENCIES ARE ABOUT 29% OF THE BASE COSTS PLUS PHYSICAL CONTENGENCIES.



- 19 -
3.04      All costs are expressed in April 1983 price,-^  Pnys:ical contf n-
gencies have been estimated at 15% for all civil works  i pth prel.iminary
engineering except for slum upgrading and market rehabl tations for wilich 20%
has been included. Price contingencies are included at '12% for 1 983J, II,% for
1984, 12% for 1985, 10% for 1986 and 8% thereafter on local co,sts on -.he basis
of current domestic price fluctuations, and at 8% for 1313. 7-1-/2%  or 1984,
7% for 1985 and 6% thereafter for foreign costs.
B. Financing Plan and Flow of Funds
3.05      The proposed loan of $67 million (including a capit-alized frontt-end
fee of $0.5 million) will finance about 60% of total project costs, net of
those costs that are already financed through the Urban Engineering Loan.
The loan will cover 100% of the foreign exchange costs estimated at ao-out
$39.3 million - net of financing provided under the Urban Engineerin4g Loan-
together with 39% of local costs, about $27.7 mlillion, thereby heLping to
reduce the impact of the project on severe domestic resource constralnts.
The loan will be made to the Government of the Philippines for a tarm cf 20
years including a 5-year grace period at the standard varIable interest
rate.
3.06      Total (foreign and local) project costs will be f.inanced through
(a) Government budgetary allocations (38%), (b) loans and ec;uiLy contribu-
tions to government corporations (32%), and (c) loans to the project cities
(30%)/l as shown in Table III-2.  Government will bear the foreign exchange
risk for the entire loan amount and will absorb interest rate variations on
proceeds on-lent to NHA and the project cities at 13%o fixed interest rates
for 20 years including 5 years grace.  Howelver, NBA aid the project cities
would pay the standard commitment fee and front end fee and on their
portions of the Bank loan. The flow of funds is illustrated in Chart 24079
and is summarized as follows:
(a)  For the shelter components, proceeds of the Bank loan wIll he
on-lent to the project cities through PNA to finance approximately
60% of component costs.  NHA will fund the counterpart require-
ments from its corporate equity on which It wa-i1d s-eeK a `%
return. Allocable project costs will be amortized by beneficiary
families through 25 year 13% mortgages. This interest rate
would be positive compared to projected rates of domestic
inflation;
/1  Includes budgets of project cities which contribute on1J7 about 1' of
total project costs, principally for land.



- 20 -
(b) For municipal enterprises including markets, slaughterhouses,
bus terminals and a livelihood zone (Davao), nroceeds of the
Bank loan will be on-lent to local governments by MOF.
Counterpart requirements will be financed through either local
government revenues or local government borrowing from domestic
commercial financial institutions;
(c) Municipal infrastructure, other than shelter and municipal
enterprises, will be funded through the national infrastructure
fund. For national agency components, proceeds of the Bank loan
together with government counterpart funds will be made available
to MPWH as budgetary appropriations. For municipal components,
the proceeds of the loan will be on-lent to local governments.
Counterpart funds required will be made available to the local
governments as interest-free loans; and
(d) For technical assistance and training, proceeds of the Bank loan
will be made available as budgetary appropriations or equity to
the various responsible agencies, except for data processing
equipment for which loans will be available to the local
governments. Local governments will also contribute toward the
cost of training programs to be established under the projects.
Signing of subsidiary loan agreements between the MOF and responsible
agencies (NRA and the project cities) covering the above on-lending arrange-
ments on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank will be a condition of
loan effectiveness. These arrangements would require the following three
agreements: (i) between MOF and NRA for relending to the project cities for
financing of shelter components; (ii) between NHA and the project cities
relending funds referred to in (i) above; and (iii) between MOF and the
project cities for municipal enterprises, municipal infrastructure, and data
processing equipment.



Table III-2: SOURCES OF FUNDS FOR PROJECT CAPITAL OUTLAYS
(f Million)
World Bank loans
Project loan
passed on as          Urban engin-                Counterpart funds
Total             Cent. govt.   eering Loan    Central govt.  Govt.
Executing  financing            budgetary     passed on as    budgetary      corp.-s    Project cities
Components       agency    required    Loan   appropriation  Loan   Grant   appropriation  equity   Budget  Borrowings
Urban             City       86.06      51.78                  1.06                                     8.44       24.78
Transport         MPWH       171.41               65.10                5.50      100.81
Drainage and      City        70.19     48.45                  0.81                                     2.76       18.17
Sanitation        MPWH       81.21                29.54                2.47       49.20
Municipal
Enterprises /a    City       126.78     86.28                  3.45                                     2.09       34.96
Shelter           City/
NHA       345.15    192.37                                                 140.12               12.66
Technical
Assistance/
Training /b       /b         145.74      6.77    118.22               20.75
Front-end fee                  4.49      4.49
Total                1,031.03    390.14    212.86         5.32   28.72      150.01       140.12   13.29      90.57
/a Includes Livelihood zone at Davao.
/b MLG, MOF, MOTC, MPWH, NEDA, NRA and Project Cities.



- 22 -
IV. KEY EXECUTING AGENCIES
4.01      The main entities involved in the project are (a) the project
cities for mnunicipal enterprises, (b) MPWH for municipal infrastructure, and
(c) NHA for shelter. The structure, functions and capabilities of these
agencies are discussed in this chapter; their roles in project implementation
are discussed in Chapter V. Other contributing agencies providing
coordinative and specialized roles such as NEDA, MOF, and MLG are discussed in
the context of their specific project contributions in Chapters V and VI.
A. City Governments
4.02      City governments are constituted by a Mayor (and Chief Executive), a
Vice Mayor, and about 16-20 Sanggunian Panlungsod (City Council) Members
depending on the city population. All members are directly elected by popular
vote. The project cities have very similar organizational structures (see
Chart 24081) and functions. The key departments and offices responsible for
the project are (a) the Mayors and Administrators Offices for policy and
over-all direction; (b) the Assessors and City Treasurers offices for revenue
generation and finance; (c) the City Engineers Offices (CEO) and the
Departments of Public Services (DPS) for the planning, operation and
maintenance of city streets, drainage, buildings, and solid wastes
collections; and (d) the City Housing Office (SIR) for shelter. Markets are
administered and managed by the City Treasurer, and slaughterhouses by the
City Veterinarian located within the Health Office. The following sections
analyze those aspects of city operations that are most critical to project
implementation.
4.03      Staffing.  All city departments have the authority to hire relevant
professional, managerial, and technical staff. However, during project
preparation a consultant study /1 identified a number of weaknesses in the
overall city staff pattern as well as staff needed to implement the project
including (a) a shortage of numbers in place and the quality of professional
and managerial staff; (b) substantial overemployment at the lower staff
levels, especially in clerical and utility categories; and (c) high staff
turnover, all of which leads to low productivity and inefficiencies. A major
/1 By Alexander Grant and Company, USA.



- 23 -
part of the problem is the low salary scale offered to city government
employees, which is regulated by the Civil Service Commission. In response
to these deficiencies, the MLG has agreed to initiate a program aimed at
assessing and improving the staffing of RCDP cities. It was confirmed during
negotiations that MLG, as Chair of the Joint Commission on Local Governmental
Personnel Administration, will initiate a study by July 1983 and develop a
corresponding action plan by July 1, 1984 for each RCDP city covering the
following (i) adequate staffing by type and level for all city departments,
(ii) redefinition of job descriptions and salary scales where structural
deficiencies are apparent, (iii) measures and targets for eliminating
unnecessary staff; (iv) special recruiting measures for attracting key staff,
and (v) training needs in municipal administration which are distinct from
project implementation training discussed in para. 2.17(b).
4.04      Construction of Municipal Infrastructure.  City Engineers (appointed
by MPWH) are assisted by Assistant City Engineers and supervising professional
staff, motor pool units, and a supporting Administrative Service Units. The
City Engineers Offices (CEO) have a reasonable complement of staff to carry
out relatively small annual programs of capital works, as well as to maintain
roads, drainage, and city buildings. The CEOs, however, are not sufficiently
equipped to handle the heavy management, design, and construction supervision
that the project will require. As described in para. 5.05, this function will
be handled principally by a city project office (CPO) assisted by MPWH
personnel and consultants, with secondments from the CEO and other city
departments. During the project period the CEOs are expected to be
strengthened by on-the-job involvement in the project and by formal training
programs.
4.05      Operations and Maintenance (O&M).  The CEOs and the Departments of
Public (or General) Services (DPS) have the prime responsibilities for
operating and maintaining most non-revenue generating infrastructure and
services in the project cities. These O&M programs are generally
underbudgeted and lack strong management. They will require substantial
strengthening especially in view of the large additional investments under
the project that will increase O&M demands.  Absence of systematic main-
tenance programs for roads and drainage facilities, caused in part by lack
of well maintained equipment and vehicles, often results in unnecessarily
costly major rehabilitation or new construction of some facilities. All
project cities need to establish and staff traffic management units in the
CEOs to operate and maintain traffic management programs, facilities, and
equipment. The DPS, which operate and maintain environmental health services
(including solid wastes collection and disposal, street cleaning, and public
toilets) are similarly poorly equipped and staffed to discharge their
functions. The CEO and DPS will therefore concentrate on improving their
operations and maintenance capabilities over the project period. Specific
measures to strengthen these O&M activities are presented in para. 5.20.



- 24 -
4.06      Shelter.  Shelter, particularly for low-income groups, is a
comparatively new city function. Cagayan de Oro and Davao have on-going
shelter programs funded under the Second Urban Project (Loan 1647-PH) and have
gained valuable experience in designing and implementing low-income shelter
programs on a significant scale. Some experience has also been gained in
Bacolod and Iloilo in preparing the sites and services and slum upgrading
components of the proposed project. However, in view of the still limited
exposure of the project cities to shelter, all have entered into joint-venture
agreements with NHA (see para. 5.08). Both parties will have an equity stake,
with NHA contributing the project management, design, construction management,
and land acquisition. It is expected that during project implementation part
of each city project office (CPO) will develop into a permanent city housing
office responsible for all future shelter operations.
4.07      Municipal Enterprises.  The existing public enterprises in the
project cities - markets and slaughterhouses - are poorly maintained,
unsanitary, and do not generate sufficient revenues. Davao is the only city
where the collection, maintenance, sanitation and security functions are all
consolidated in the Treasurer-s Office; in other cities the operating
functions are dispersed among as many as four departments, and only the
management of city markets is the responsibility of the City Treasurers
Department. Slaughterhouse operations are similarly fragmented, and no
municipal responsibility exists for bus terminal operations. Measures to
strengthen and rationalize public enterprise services in the project cities
will be implemented under the project (see para. 5.06).
B. Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH)
4.08      The former Ministries of Public Works and of Public Highways were
merged by a Presidential Order in late 1981. The consolidated Ministry is
responsible for the construction and maintenance of roads, flood control and
drainage, public buildings, wells for rural water supply, ports and reclama-
tion. In addition, a number of important sectoral agencies and corporations
are attached to the MPWH for policy and program coordination. The new
Ministry has been reorganized along functional lines with Bureaus of
Construction, Materials and Quality Control, Design, and Equipment and
Maintenance under four Directors. Six Assistant Ministers are in charge of
overall management functions at headquarters with 12 Regional Directors of
Assistant Minister rank heading the regional offices.
4.09      The MPWH is capable of carrying out the construction of infrastruc-
ture that will be under its jurisdiction within the project. It has a close
working relationship with city engineers who are appointed by MPWH and are
mandated to carry out selected construction and maintenance functions funded
by MPWH. Overall, the Ministry is well equipped to assume the proposed
leadership role it will play in managing or overseeing construction of a
significant proportion of civil works under the project. MPWH has had
continuous representation on the Project Steering Committee and the
Technical Committee since project inception. MPWH has already placed a



- 25 -
manager in the Regional Cities Development Project Office (RCDPO) and in the
four City Project Offices (CPO). MPWH is committed through memoranda of
agreement with the project cities to provide further staffing assistance and
technical support from its regional offices located in three of the four
project cities (paras. 5.02 and 5.03).
C. National Housing Authority (NHA)
4.10      NRA has been the principal government agency pioneering low income
shelter developments since 1976 when the first urban development loan for
improvement of the Tondo foreshore area was approved (Loan 1272-TW and
1282-PH). With the creation in 1978 of the Ministry of Human Settlements
(MHS), responsibility for sector and financial policy development was
transferred and NHA now concentrates on implementation of Government's low
income shelter programs either directly or through joint venture arrangements
with local governments or private developers. NRA is currently implementing
three other Bank-financed projects which include sites and services and major
slum upgrading programs in Metro-Manila and in three regional cities.
4.11      Organization and Staffing.  NHA-s activities are organized into
functional areas of forward programming and evaluation; project development
and implementation; and administration (See Chart 20838). In recognition of
the geographical distribution of NHA's programs, its project development
department comprising 920 staff has been restructured into four operating
units: (a) Metro-Manila projects; (b) regional projects; (c) special projects;
and (d) industrial development and promotion, each reporting directly to the
General Manager. This highly centralized management style is partly due to
the difficulty of recruiting experienced middle and senior level staff and NHA
has traditionally relied extensively on consultant advisors. To overcome this
staffing problem, a project technical services group has been set up under the
direction of NHA's Senior Staff Engineer to review and advise senior manage-
ment on technical issues and to provide staff support to the operating units
as required from time-to-time. Also, a junior professionals training program
is now providing an increasing number of technical staff. In addition NHA is
proposing to establish two new senior officer positions for finance and for
operations respectively. At negotiations, agreement was reached that NRA
will, by June 30, 1984: (i) furnish to the Bank a staffing study completed in
accordance with Terms of Reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) employ
on a full-time basis, senior staff responsible for finance and for operations,
respectively, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
4.12      The Regional Projects staff has been authorized to expand to over
100 employees as a first step towards regionalizing NHA's operations by
establishing local offices initially for Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao. Over
fifty positions are already filled compared to about thirty a year ago and
an experienced officer-in-charge has been appointed. It is this staff
that will provide for the city SIR offices four seven-person technical
assistance teams, which will manage implementation of shelter programs
included under the project (see paras 5.08-5.09).



- 26 -
4.13      Financial Structure and Policies.  NHA has now built up a
considerable and diverse portfolio of assets including developed land to be
sold for residential settlement or industrial/commercial use; infrastructure
constructed and financed on behalf of other agencies; and development loans
advanced to implementing entities, all totalling P 1,489 millions at end FY
1981. Current and other assets including administrative property and
equipment amounted to a further P 454 millions resulting in total assets at
end FY 1981 of P 1,943 millions. This was expected to increase to around
P 2,585 millions by end FY 1982 due to increased project development now
underway. To date, NBA financing has been made available primarily from
government equity contributions. NHA has an authorized capital of P 2,000
millions, of which about P 1,298 millions was paid in by end of FY 1982.
In addition, various other capital contributions in the nature of subsidies
have been made by government from time to time for special projects, and
substantial surpluses were taken over from agencies absorbed by NBA. As a
result total government interest in NHA stood at around P 1,514 millions
at end FY 1981 and was expected to rise to P 1,968 by end FY 1982.
4.14      NBA is expected to revolve these funds and generate about a 15%
return on its corporate equity. In recent years however, NHA has concentrated
increasingly on low income shelter programs which, even if successful,
generate low financial returns. At the same time, NHA has been urged to
implement uneconomic "special" projects /1 which have been subsidized partly
from its corporate capital. With the recent significant increase in NHA's
programs and because of increasing uncertainty over the amount and timing of
Government's equity contributions and subsidy payments, NBA has borrowed
heavily in recent years. At the end of FY 1982 long term debt was expected
to be P 358 millions, and total liabilities amounted to around P 617
millions. However, until cost recovery arrangements become operational (see
para. 4.15) and operating revenues increase significantly, NBA will be limited
in its capacity to support debt from current earnings, which presently provide
a financial return of less than 0.5% (before taxes). NHA is undertaking with
government a thorough review of its development program in order to take
account of the likely future level of government equity contributions and
capital subsidies overall; the likely impact on operating revenues of enhanced
cost recovery efforts; and NHA's capacity to support borrowings, both foreign
and domestic. At negotiations, it was agreed that NBA will receive sufficient
equity contributions to ensure adequate financing for the shelter component of
the project.
4.15      Early projects including Tondo Foreshore and some regional projects
are now coming to completion, and arrangements are being finalized for
handover, including transfer of costs incurred by NBA for major infrastructure
and community facilities. On World Bank assisted projects alone, NHA has
/1 Including the BLISS apartment project.



- 27 -
incurred and is carrying in its balance sheet, capital outlays amounting to
some P 860 millions on behalf of 8 other agencies. These assets are
unproductive to NHA, impair the Authority's financial rate of return and
discussions are underway which should clear the way for them to be written out
of NHA's accounts. Agreed beneficiary charges have been finalized for
projects completed and ongoing, measures have recently been implemented to
systematize collection procedures and annual targets are to be set for cost
recovery on each major program. At negotiations, it was agreed that NRA by
December 31, 1983 will begin to implement a cost recovery program satisfactory
to the Bank for its sites and services and slum upgrading projects.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT, AND IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Major urban infrastructure improvement, including national roads and
primary drainage works are traditionally provided by Government agencies.
The remainder of the project components should normally be built and managed
by the local governments. However, as described in Chapter IV, cities are
not presently equipped to manage the construction of infrastructure on the
scale proposed under the project or to operate and maintain existing
facilities and services on a satisfactory level. The proposed project
organization and management arrangements described in the following sections
involves substantial participation by national government agencies (MPWH and
NHA) to avoid overtaxing of city implementation capabilities and to provide
for well coordinated and timely project implementation.
A. Project Organization and Management
5.02      A Project Steering Committee, established in 1979, will act as the
policy making body for the Project, and will review and approve budgetary pro-
posals of the project implementing agencies for conformance with the project's
overall objectives and timetable./l It is composed of ranking representatives
from the following agencies:  NEDA (chair), MHS, MLG, MPWH, MOTI and
Ex-Officio, MOB, MOF and NRA (see chart 24078). Overall project management
responsibilities are vested in the RCDPO, with the project director from NEDA
and the assistant director (technical) from MPWH. The RCDPO, supported by
professional staff assigned from NEDA and MPWH, will (a) handle project
monitoring and reporting; (b) coordinate overall project programs and
budgets; and (c) manage the detailed design and implementation of MPWH
financed infrastructure in the cities. A RCDP Technical Committee, which
/1 Executive Order No. 605 dated July 25, 1980 formally established the
project, created the Project Steering Committee, and created the Regional
Cities Development Project Office (RCDPO).



- 28 -
assisted in coordinating project preparation, will continue to coordinate
technical aspects of the project implementation. The membership consists of
designated senior staff of participating central government agencies.
5.03      At the city level, City Project Offices (CPO's) headed by a city
project manager, have been established to handle day-today administrative
matters including project programming and budgeting, land acquisition, legal
matters, liaison with the city administration, and monitoring the physical and
financial progress of the project. The CPO's will, on a regular basis, report
project performance to the RCDPO. Contained within the CPOs are consolidated
units for design and construction supervision of (a) municipal infrastructure
(b) shelter and (c) municipal enterprises. An interagency City Project
Advisory Committee (PAC), headed by the city Mayor, will be established in
each city to function as coordinating body at the local level for planning,
budgeting, financing and implementing activities of all involved agencies. It
will act as a liaison between the implementing bodies and the Mayor and the
City Council and will review (in terms of scale, phasing and funding
requirements) the proposed consolidated annual and programmed budgets prepared
by the responsible agencies.
B. Implementation Arrangements
5.04      The project will be accomplished in four basic programs: (a) munici-
pal infrastructure (roads, road maintenance, drainage, solid wastes manage-
ment, and sanitation), including both MPWH and city financed components, to be
implemented under the overall management control of MPWH; (b) municipal
enterprises (markets, slaughterhouses, bus terminals and a livelihood zone
(in Davao only) to be implemented under the overall management control
of the respective cities with technical guidance by MPWH; (c) shelter (slum
upgrading, sites and services with comercial/industrial plots) to be under-
taken in the form of a joint venture between NHA and each project city under
the overall management of NHA; and (d) training to be coordinated by MLG with
assistance from MPWH and MOF. Signed memoranda of agreement between the
project cities and MLG, MPWH, NEDA, and NHA has formalized these arrangements
which are described successively below. (See also supporting Tables 1 and 2.)
5.05      Municipal Infrastructure.  A city level Engineering Unit under a
MPWH Manager for Engineering has been established in each CPO with authority
to manage the design and construction of MPWH and city financed municipal
infrastructure. The Engineering Unit is staffed by both MPWH and city
personnel all reporting directly to the Manager. The size of staff varies
between cities depending upon the size of the project components and the
scale of design work being contracted to local consulting firms. Advisory
services financed under the Urban Engineering Loan support these units, and
additional advisory services will be provided under the project (see para.
2.15). These arrangements are satisfactory for the design and construction
supervision of municipal infrastructure components.



- 29 -
5.06      Municipal Enterprises.  Recognizing the current organizational
and staffing deficiencies (see para. 4.07) in running municipal enterprises,
the project cities have agreed in principle to establish Municipal Enterprise
Departments (MED). The collections and accounting function of these new
departments will continue to be performed by the City Treasurer's Office. The
MED will be established with increased responsibilities and accountability in
overall administration operations and maintenance, leasing or renting
arrangements, and monitoring accounts to make the overall operation a viable
undertaking. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the project cities
will establish MED by December 31, 1984, with designated functional offices
to handle markets, slaughterhouses, and bus terminals, with responsibilities,
staff, resources and pricing policies satisfactory to the Bank.
5.07      Under the project, the overall management of municipal enterprise
construction will be under the control of the CPO, assisted by RCDPO. The
city engineers office will provide staff for managing the design and
construction phases of the markets, slaughterhouses and bus terminals.
5.08      Shelter.  The shelter components in the four cities will be imple-
mented under NHA/city joint venture arrangements similar to those existing
under the Slum Improvement and Resettlement (SIR) program in Davao and Cagayan
de Oro which is supported by the Second Urban Development Project (Loan
1647-PH). The existing and operating SIR offices in those cities will be
retained; new SIR offices have been created and are partially staffed in
the cities of Iloilo and Bacolod. Memoranda of agreements between NHA, MPWH,
RCDPO and the cities establish the working arrangements and staffing required
of each organization. The head of each shelter unit will be a city employee.
The NHA will provide senior technical teams to assist the SIR offices in
planning, design, land acquisition, construction, supervision, estate manage-
ment, and financial management. The construction of the shelter components
will be the responsibility of the SIR teams. MPWH will construct schools and
health clinics required in sites and services components, subject to the
overall planning guidelines prepared by the SIR teams. At negotiations, it
was confirmed that satisfactory arrangements have been made for (a) NHA and
city staffing of the SIR offices, and (b) MPWH funding and construction of
primary schools, health clinics, and a sea wall.
5.09      The sites and services, slum upgrading, and commercial/industrial
plots will be operated by the SIR offices. Operations will include
(a) beneficiary selection, (b) community relations, (c) collections from
beneficiaries and (d) administration of building loans. A code of policies,
on these matters has been agreed upon between NHA and the cities. Within each
project area in line with their normal operating practices, the CEO and DPS
will be responsible for road maintenance and solid wastes management,
respectively.



- 30 -
5.10      Municipal Training.  The municipal training program will be
administered by the Bureau of Local Government (BLG) within the Ministry of
Local Government, (MLG). It will be guided by a steering committee composed
of representatives of MLG (Chair), MPWH, MOF and the National Manpower Youth
Council (NMYC).
C. Implementation Schedule
5.11      The project would be implemented over a five year period, January
1984 through December 1988. Chart 24080 shows an implementation schedule.
Continuity in project preparation is provided by the Urban Engineering Loan
which overlaps with the proposed project and finances detailed engineering
and related activities from June 1982 onwards. Detailed engineering for all
compoments to be constructed in 1984 began in September/October 1982 and is
expected to be substantially completed by April 1983. Land acquisition for
the 1984 construction program was well advanced by negotiations (see para.
5.21).
D.   Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
5.12      Goods.  Plant, equipment and vehicles, totalling $6.2 million
equivalent, including contingencies, will be grouped in appropriate bidding
packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Qualifying
domestic manufacturers will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% or
the import duty, whichever is the lower. Selected items of equipment,
vehicles, and tools, in packages costing less than $200,000 each and totalling
$3.0 million approximately, will be procured under competitive local proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank. Miscellaneous goods contracts costing less
than $15,000 and totalling not more than $300,000, may be procured by prudent
local shopping.
5.13      Civil Works.  The estimated total value of civil works under the
project, totalling about $66 million equivalent including contingencies, is
distributed among the four project cities as follows: Iloilo $11 million;
Bacolod, $14 million; Cagayan de Oro, $10 million; and Davao, $31 million.
Larger contracts for construction of roads, totalling about $14 million, will
be grouped in appropriate bidding packages and will be procured from prequal-
ified contractors by ICB on a city specific basis in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. The balance of construction to be financed under the project,
totalling US$52 million including contingencies, consists of minor works of
estimated contract sizes costing less than $1.5 million each distributed over
the four cities and not likely to interest foreign bidders. These works will
be procured from prequalified contractors by local competitive bidding proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank. The only exceptions will be rehabilitation



- 31 -
of existing markets and minor traffic management measures. These works -
totalling about $2 million - would be executed by city and MPWH staffs through
force account due to the need to work around existing operations as well as
the need to very carefully phase a large number of work operations. If
private contractors were invited to participate, it is anticipated that the
result would be either a lack of contractor interest or high administration
costs and/or high bid prices.
5.14      The project will attempt to assist in developing the construction
industry in those regions where the project cities are located. Accordingly,
civil works contracts to be awarded under LCB provisions will be "sliced and
packaged" to improve the competitive posture of local firms, most of which
are small.
5.15      All bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost over
US$0.5 million equivalent, individual contracts for markets, bus terminals,
slaughterhouses, and schools estimated to cost over $250,000 equivalent each,
and bidding packages for goods costing over $200,000 equivalent each will be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. This will
result in a coverage of about 75% of the total estimated value of civil works
contracts and about 70% of goods contracts. On that basis between 50 and 60
contracts out of a total of about 105 contracts amounting to about $55 million
over the three-year procurement period would be subject to prior review. This
coverage is considered adequate as the agencies concerned are experienced in
Bank procurement procedures. The balance of contracts will be subject to post
review by the Bank after contract award.
5.16      All procurement and loan withdrawal documentation will be undertaken
by each implementing agency but will be channeled through RCDPO in order to
facilitate project implementation and monitoring. Copies of all contracts
will be kept on record in the RCDPO. In addition to the above tasks, the
RCDPO would also monitor implementation schedules with a view toward
coordinating and advising, as appropriate, on any procurement actions by the
various implementing agencies, and particularly the cities. The above
arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
Disbursement
5.17      Disbursements will be made against the following categories of
expenditures:
(a) 100% of the CIF cost of directly imported goods;
(b) 100% of ex-factory costs of locally manufactured goods;
(c) 65% of the costs of imported goods procured locally;
(d) 70% of the cost of civil works contracts for shelter, markets,
slaughterhouses and bus terminals and the livelihood zone in
Davao;



- 32 -
(e) 45% of the cost of all other civil works; and
(f) 100% of the costs of technical assistance and training
expenditures.
5.18      Disbursements for minor civil works contracts (costing less than
P 1,000,000 each), will be made against statements of expenditure based on
actual payments to contractors. Similarly, disbursements for force account
civil works for market rehabilitation will be made against statements of
expenditure. Supporting documents for expenditures made against these state-
ments of expenditure, would be retained by the executing agency concerned
and made available to supervision missions for inspection. A unit price
analysis with supporting documents will be submitted for Bank review before
the first reimbursement for market rehabilitations in each city by force
account is claimed. (See also para. 5.22 for confirmations on related
accounting systems). Disbursements made against the livelihood zone in
Davao will be subject to a mutually agreed feasibility study. Finally,
it was agreed at negotiations not to dispurse against building loans esti-
mated at $2.3 million equivalent in order to finance a higher percentage of
civil works.
5.19      An estimated schedule of disbursements of the Bank loan is shown
in supporting Table 3. It is expected that disbursements will be completed
by December 31, 1989, about one year after completion of civil works, to
allow for payments of contractors retention monies. The disbursement
period of six-years for the project compares with 8 years for the regional
and country disbursement profiles for the urban sector. The reasons for the
expectation that disbursements will occur faster than indicated by
historical profiles are: (a) good project momentum has built up during the
preparation period, and is sustained by the Urban Engineering Loan which
became effective in May 1982; (b) detailed engineering is in progress and
bidding documents for the first year's construction program will be
available mid-1983; and (c) two of the key executing agencies MPWH and NHA
which will execute the bulk of the project, are experienced in execution of
larger contracts, and are fully familiar with the Bank's procurement and
disbursement procedures.
E. Operations and Maintenance
5.20      As discussed in paras. 4.05 and 6.13, present arrangements for
operation and maintenance of municipal infrastructure in the project cities
are inadequate. Areas that require attention include: (a) consolidation of
equipment and vehicle maintenance functions under adequately staffed CEOs;
(b) creation of adequately staffed traffic management units within the CEOs;
(c) provision of adequate maintenance budgets for roads, drainage works and



- 33 -
sanitation, and related equipment and vehicles; (d) initiation of training
programs for managers and staff in road maintenance, in traffic management,
and in operation of sanitary landfills; (e) revision of DPS organization
along functional lines; and (f) removal of non-serviceable equipment,
vehicles and scrap from the CEO maintenance depots. The cities are
presently preparing proposals addressing specific issues in the above areas.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that by July 1984 each city will
commence implementation of action programs satisfactory to the Bank for the
improvement of their respective operations and maintenance functions in the
areas of roads, drainage works and sanitation.
F. Land Acquisition
5.21      About 384 ha of land with an estimated value totalling about
P 58 million will be acquired under the project. NHA will acquire about
72%, MPWH about 5% and the cities about 23% of total land area. The concerned
agencies are in the process of acquiring parcels of land necessary for planned
commencement of construction during the first year of the implementation
program (54% of the total land required for the project). In order to assure
timely acquisition of lands, completion of land-purchase negotiations or
initiation of expropriation proceedings, which will allow the agencies to
enter the land to start construction, was a condition for loan negotiations.
Evidence was presented at negotiations showing satifactory compliance with
this condition.
G. Accounts, Audits, Progress Reporting and Monitoring
5.22      Accounts.  Each project implementing agency (MPWH, NHA, and the
project cities) will be responsible for maintaining detailed project accounts.
For revenue generating components accounting systems and procedures are to
be implemented as follows: (a) for shelter, trust accounts developed under
the Second Urban Loan already operating in Davao and Cagayan de Oro will be
used and similar accounts in Iloilo and Bacolod will be established; (b) for
municipal enterprises, satisfactory accounting systems developed by financial
consultants,/l which have been approved by each project city and the
Commission on Audit (COA), will be utilized. For municipal infrastructure,
accounts will be maintained by MPWH and respective cities to record project
related capital outlays. Accounting reports will be channelled through
RCDPO to the Bank. At negotiations, the above arrangements were confirmed.
/1 Alexander Grant and Company, USA.



- 34 -
5.23      Audits.  As the government auditor, COA undertakes an annual
financial audit of all public agencies including all project implementing
agencies. To further strengthen audit procedures, agreement was reached at
negotiations on the following: (a) a separate opinion on expenditures made
against statements of expenditures will be furnished to the Bank annually,
confirming that claimed expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided; and (b) in addition to audited project accounts outlined
in para. 5.22 above, NHA and local governments will submit through RCDPO
audited annual final accounts covering their operations as a whole.
5.24      Progress Reporting and Project Monitoring.  The RCDPO, with the
assistance of implementing agencies, will monitor project expenditures, and
the progress of the project toward its physical, financial, and programmatic
goals. This monitoring will include quarterly progress reports to the Project
Steering Committee and the Bank within one month of the expiration of each
quarter. These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Cost Recovery and Service Pricing
6.01     Pricing policies for shelter and municipal enterprise are designed to
make these components financially self-liquidating. About 46% of total
capital outlays under the project will be directly recoverable through sale
and lease of land and facilities developed under these components. A further
15% of municipal infrastructure works will be financed from increased
municipal tax revenues leaving 39% for national roads and main drainage, and
technical assistance to be borne by the central government.
6.02     Shelter.  The cost of land, on-site infrastructure and on lot devel-
opment will be recovered from beneficiaries through charges on the lease/
purchase of lots which would ammortize these costs at 13% for up to 25 years.
Building loans will be available at 13% for up to 15 years depending on the
likely structure life. Land developed within the contiguous shelter areas for
small scale commercial/industrial use will be marketed at prevailing values.
The cost of community facilities and off-site infrastructure will not be
recovered from charges levied on beneficiary families.
6.03     Financial viability and affordability to beneficiaries of the overall
shelter program in each city have been principal factors governing planning
and construction standards. In view of the shortage of housing at all income
levels in these cities, sites and services under the project are designed to
be affordable to a target group which falls between about the 12th and 70th



- 35 -
percentiles. In areas to be upgraded, improvements will be designed to be
affordable by families at about the 10th percentile. The sale of land devel-
oped within these sites for small scale commercial/industrial use, together
with higher prices for larger more attractive residential lots, will provide
surplus revenues to help off-set charges for lower income families on small
new and upgraded residential lots. Surveys undertaken during project prepara-
tion indicate that families in unserviced communities pay around P 30-50 for
water purchased from private vendors and that monthly rental payments often
amount to P 40-80. By comparison, the charge for title and improved infra-
structure provided under the project will amount to around P 68 for a small
lot or P 92 per month on average for areas upgraded and P 83 per month for
a small lot in a new serviced site. Table VI-1 illustrates indicative plot
charges and affordability to the target income groups in Bacolod; charges in
other project cities will be similar, or in some cases lower depending on land
and development costs.
6.04     About 70% of the residential land to be improved under the slum up-
grading program is privately owned and will need to be acquired before
improvements can be made. Each city is therefore considering implementing
price equalization measures by spreading shelter land acquisition costs over
the program as a whole in order to recover the long-run average land costs and
Table VI-1: BACOLOD: INDICATIVE SHELTER PLOT COSTS AND BENEFICIARY CHARGES
No.   Plot  Allocated                       Monthly      Income
of    size   unit      Sale     Monthly    income    percentile
plots (sq m)  cost /a  price/b  charge/c  required /d  reached
_____________________  (P) ----------------------
Sites & services 2,869
Average plot             85   12,858   12,900      131          550         30
Smallest plot            60    9,083    8,174       83          350        12
Upgrading          1,521
Average plot             73    9,573    8,615       92          420         20
Smallest plot            57    7,467    6,346       68          315         10
/a In 1982 prices includes land acquisition, on-site infrastructure and
on-plot development costs.
/b Allows for cross subsidies from land developed within contiguous shelter
project sites for small-scale industrial/commercial use.
/c Assumes 10% downpayment.
/d Average - based on sites & services 20% and upgrading 18% of monthly
family income devoted to mortgage payments, assuming average occupancy of
1.2 families per plot.



- 36 -
bring freehold title within affordable limits for beneficiaries. To assure
reasonable land acquisition costs existing land values of private sites are
carefully reviewed by an MOF committee to ensure that they reflect existing
unserviced conditions and the poor marketability of land that has been
occupied by squatters.
6.05     The National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC) operates
a secondary market for residential mortgages originated by accredited finan-
cial institutions. During project appraisal, it was proposed that NHMFC
could purchase qualifying mortgages originated on sites and services
fLinanced through the project. Mortgages would have been "wholesaled to" NHMFC
to liquidate the investments by NHA and project cities in residential serviced
sites developed under the project immediately on completion and sale to
qualifying beneficiaries. However, at negotiations it was confirmed that due
to already extensive commitments NHMFC will not be able to participate in the
shelter program.
6.06     Municipal Enterprises.  Rents, fees and charges for markets,
slaughterhouses, and bus terminals will be set at levels sufficient to recover
operating and amortized capital costs. For markets proposed under the project
to be financially viable it is estimated that rents at 2 to 3 times existing
levels will be required assuming all funds are retained for market usage.
Rents in public markets have not been increased for several years and a large
number of registered stallholders have sublet at considerably higher rents.
Project cities have therefore recently increased rents on existing stalls by
50-100% and further annual increases are planned in order to reach required
levels by the time markets proposed under the project are completed. For
slaughterhouses, a revised fee schedule has been approved by project cities
which, on the basis of projected throughput, would maintain the facilities on
a financially viable basis. For bus terminals, an annual fee will be charged
to bus operators based on their estimated proportion of total revenue based on
bus departures. The fee will average about e 10 ($1.10) per bus/departure.
Based on bus traffic projections, this would be adequate to recover operating
and amortized investment costs without increasing transport costs unduly.
Cash flow projections in Annex 10 illustrate the financial viability of the
public enterprises proposed under the project in each city.
6.07     During negotiations, agreement was reached that all project cities
would (a) establish and subsequently implement and maintain a service costing
system and pricing policy to ensure that the municipal enterprises are
operated as financially viable undertakings; and (b) the rents, fees and
charges under this pricing policy would be reviewed annually during the
project period. The results of such reviews would be sent to the Bank for
its review and comments by July 1, 1985 and each July 1 thereafter. Imple-
mentation of agreed recommendations for possible adjustments would be made
in consultation with MOF and the Bank.



- 37 -
6.08      For solid wastes management, each city currently levies a fee on
commercial and industrial establishments as part of the annual business
licensing process, which will be continued under the project. Residential
cost recovery will be achieved indirectly through general municipal revenues.
For sanitation services, which will consist principally of septic tank
clean-out upon request of the user, a service charge will be rendered. Since
the principal objective of these components will be to improve environmental
conditions, and since the concept of full cost recovery for these services is
not a tradition in the cities, it will be unrealistic to expect fees to cover
more than half the costs.
B. Municipal Finances
6.09      Current conditions.  In addition to central government grants, taxes
on real property and businesses together with fees and charges for municipal
enterprises including public markets and slaughterhouses, constitute the major
sources of local revenues. Taken together property and business taxes repre-
sent 60-70% of locally generated revenues (see Annex 10, Table 1). However,
administration has traditionally been poor. Collection performance on the
real property tax for example has rarely exceeded 60% of taxes due. Based on
sample reviews, gross sales declared for business tax purposes represent
probably no more than 30-40% of actual turnover. For the period 1978-1981
business tax receipts in project cities have been increasing at annual rates
of 7-11%, substantially below inflation which averaged 14% during this period.
Locally generated per capita revenues have increased by about 12% per year in
Iloilo, 5-8% in Cagayan de Oro and Bacolod, but no increases have materialized
in Davao, even in nominal terms. By contrast, city expenditures on recurrent
operations were growing by 20-25% per year, partly because of rapidly
escalating staff costs. Thus, the financial capacity of project cities has,
in recent years, failed to keep pace with the municipal service requirements
of populations growing at up to 6% annually. As a result, all project cities
have become increasingly dependent on central government grants which grew at
around 47-50% per year during the 1978-81 period, and currently finance 33-44%
of total municipal expenditures compared to 17-25% in 1978.
6.10      Action program.  The need to strengthen the financial capacity of
the project cities was therefore recognized at the outset as a pre-requisite
for development programs at the scale required in these cities. To this
end, Government commissioned a study /1 under MOF and in coordination with
COA, to (a) develop strategies to increase revenues in each city; and (b)
design and assist in implementing improved collection procedures and
/1 The study, conducted by Alexander Grant and Company, also reviewed the
management of municipal enterprises including markets and slaughterhouses.



- 38 -
accounting systems to provide a basis for improved financial management.  The
revenue strategies concentrated on measi-res within the jurisdiction of the
local governments. While additional revenue instruments were developed,
(including vehicle parking fees, and taxes on air and sea passengers and on
telephone subscribers), the study recommendations emphasized .he importance
of improving the effectiveness of taxes on real property and or. businesses
as having the best short term potential for substantially increasing yield.
Improved financial management and accounting systems have 'been developed to
support these tax collection and enforcement efforts and to strengthen control
of principal expenditure items including payroll and supplies and services,
and to improve the financial management of public markets and slaughterhouses.
6.11      After some delay in adoption of recommended measures by newly
elected local governments, implementation commenced during late 1981 and a
modest revenue increase was registered for the year in eac-r project city.
On the basis of 1st quarter 1982 results, the full year's effect should be
significant and estimated additional localy generated revernues resulting
from these measures are projected to increase from about 4-1,1% 1982 to about
27-37% in 1988 in nominal terms (see A:nnex 10). Almost all cf these
increases will come from property and business tax revenues.
6.12      Additional revenues from property taxes are based on improving
collection performance from around 60% in 1981 to 75% in 1983 and to 80% in
1984. All four project cities have initiated campaigns to reduce the
considerable level of arrearages.  In Cagayan de Oro, for e-ample, unpaid
property taxes amount to about P 5 million which is equivalent to a full
years current collections. In Davao, about P 27 million is outstanding or
about 3 times the current annual collections. While these amounts are
unlikely to be fully recovered, a significant proportion (up to 55% of total
property values) relating to commercial and industrial property could be
collected.  To assist in reducing the collection backlog all project cities
will annually renew business licences on condition that there are no arrears
on municipal taxes. In addition, each project city has apprcved or imple-
mented an increased tax rate for commercial/industrial properties from 1983.
Through improved records management and more effective enforcement, project
cities are seeking to double business tax revenues during the project period.
To assist in this, information from national income tax returns will be made
available to local governments. Projected additional revenues from pay
parking already introduced have also been included in the revenue projections
but the proposed 10% tax on telephone subscribers which is still under
consideration has not been included. Normal (non-project oriented) increases
in local revenues are projected at about 7-9% on average in nominal terms. No
information is yet available on the future level of government grants.
However, it has been assumed that the recent annual increases of around 50%
will not continue, particularly in view of the likely level of- additional
locally generated revenues; a conservative nominal growth --a e of 5% on
government grants is reflected in the revenue projections.



- 39 -
6.13     Recurrent Expenditures.  Through stronger cost control measures,
increases in recurrent expenditures are expected to be held to around 10% per
year (around average projected domestic inflation levels) throughout the
project implementation period, except for infrastructure operation and
maintenance (O&M). These O&M costs have been increasing by around 35% per
year on average during the period 1978-81, primarily because of increases
averaging 65% per year in Government grants attributable to infrastructure
works. However, annual infrastructure maintenance expenditures are still
modest, averaging about P 45 equivalent per capita. Project cities have
agreed on the need to provide for a significantly increased Level of annual
expenditures to (a) ensure that facilities developed under the project are
adequately maintained; (b) upgrade maintenance of existing infrastructure; and
(c) make adequate provision for repair and replacement of road maintenance,
solid wastes and sanitation equipment (see para. 5.20). Forecast revenue
increases (Annex 10) will enable project cities to increase O&M expenditures
by up to 30% in real per capita terms leading to greater productivity of
existing manpower and significantly improved service standards.
6.14      At negotiations, agreement was reached that each of the project
cities will increase to a level and in accordance with a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank (a) property and business tax collections, and
(b) the tax rate on commercial and industrial property.
C. Project Impact on Municipal Budgets
6.15      The level of capital expenditures on municipal services and shelter
proposed under the project far exceeds the capacity of respective project
cities to finance from available reserves. Furthermore, almost all of these
expenditures, with the exception of land purchases, will be financed from
borrowings. Annual debt servicing costs will therefore quickly become
significant. In addition, as indicated in para. 6.13, project cities are
expected to increase infrastructure maintenance budgets substantially. City
revenue projections, as illustrated in Annex 10, indicate that (a) debt
service costs incurred under the project would be largely off-set by revenues
from municipal enterprises and shelter which are designed to be
selfliquidating; and (b) increases in local fiscal revenues would be adequate
to absorb the balance of incremental project costs and the increased city wide
maintenance expenditures. If the forecast revenue increases are realized,
project cities will also be able to generate sufficient local revenues to
enable a reduction in their dependence on government grants. In addition,
project cities would be able to build up reserves, increasingly from locally
generated revenues, to provide satisfactory levels of working capital (upwards
of 6 months recurrent expenditures) to help accommodate the effect of uneven
flow of annual revenues and to stabilize the impact of possible future adverse
economic trends. However, as a precaution against less than anticipated



- 40 -
revenue performance by the cities, agreement was reached at negotiations
that each of the project cities will limit borrowings during the project
period for a level not exceeding its debt servicing capacity. This will be
monitored by MOF.
D. Administering and Monitoring Municipal Finances
6.16      Success of the projected revenue performance of project cities
will depend largely on improved administrative performance by respective City
Treasury and Assessment Staff. In recognition of the need for a more
performance-oriented management style on the part of these officials, MOF has
reviewed existing appointments in the project cities and proposes to make
selected changes. Moreover, in each city, task forces have been established
to set revenue targets and monitor performance in rationalizing business
classifications; improving records management; collecting delinquent taxes;
and, as a cost control measure, reviewing staffing needs overall./l In order
to strengthen the review power of the local governments over financial
performance, these task forces are chaired by the respective city mayors.
Representation by the MOF Regional Director will formalize the status of these
task forces and maintain the supervisory involvement of MOF. It was confirmed
at negotiations that MOF will strengthen and expand its Local Treasury
Operations staff. This will be accomplished by the addition of senior
advisors and middle level technical staff to help assist and monitor
implementation of revenue measures. This same staff will assist in initiating
financial system improvements in the project cities and in promoting similar
reforms in other municipal governments throughout the country. Technical
assistance is included in the project (see para. 2.17) to assist MOF in this
activity.
/1 Staff costs presently represent approximately 50% of overall recurrent
expenditures.



- 41 -
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Evaluation
7.01      The project would be the fourth urban development project for the
Philippines but the first to support Government's regional development
strategy by providing an adequate infrastructural base to support expanding
economic opportunities in four important cities. The project also seeks to
improve institutions principally responsible for delivering, operating and
maintaining urban services primarily through management and fiscal reforms
and initiation of long term skills oriented training programs.
7.02      Traffic and transport improvements will relieve congestion in the
central business districts; improve flows on heavily travelled routes; open
up access to new development areas; and reduce travel times and vehicle
operating costs. In addition, procurement of maintenance equipment and
organizational improvements would preserve the economic utility of the
citywide road systems.
7.03      The rehabilitation of existing drainage systems will relieve severe
flooding particularly during monsoon seasons when these systems overflow
causing damage to property and public infrastructure. The improvements will
affect areas serving 370,000 people in the four project cities. New equipment
and better management for removal of solid wastes will expand service coverage
to about 65% from about 30% at present in project cities. Pilot sanitation
schemes in Iloilo and Bacolod will improve ground water conditions in the
service areas. Although it is not possible to quantify the economic benefits
arising from these investments, collectively they should have a significant
impact on public health and environmental sanitation.
7.04      Markets proposed under the project will improve sanitary conditions,
reduce spoilage, and increase employment and business activity in areas poorly
served by these facilities. Adequate public health standards cannot be
maintained in the existing slaughterhouses in Cagayan de Oro and Davao, nor
can these facilities be economically renovated. The new facilities proposed
under the project would serve the daily local meat requirements and release
existing centrally located facilities for other high value use. Bus terminals
to be constructed in Cagayan de Oro and Davao will reduce traffic congestion
in city centers and provide more convenient transfer facilities for public
transport patrons.
7.05      The shelter component will initiate in Iloilo and Bacolod, and
continue in Cagayan de Oro and Davao, to upgrade city wide slum improvement
and resettlement (SIR) programs benefitting over 120,000 persons. These
programs will (a) improve basic services in depressed existing communities;
(b) regularize tenure; and (c) provide additional serviced residential land
for low income families thereby alleviating the underlying conditions that
lead to squatting in these fast growing cities. The programs in each city are



- 42 -
designed to be substantially self financing thereby ensuring their long-term
replicability. Serviced land for industrial/ commercial use within or
adjacent to the continguous shelter areas would provide surplus revenues to
help offset residental charges and would provide additional employment
opportunities for these lower income communities.
7.06      The quantified economic rates of return are summarized in the
table below by component and city. The estimated average weighted economic
rate of return for those components for which benefits could be quantified,
and which account for 62% of the project cost, is 27%.
SUMI4ARY OF ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN BY COMPONENT BY CITY
City
Cagayan
Component                   Bacolod       de Oro    Davao       Iloilo
City Streets                    17            37         27           27
Municipal Enterprises
Markets                       22            20         17           18
Bus terminals                  -            13         21            -
Slaughterhouses                -            21         24           -
Shelter                         25            29         36           30
Shadow pricing for lower real costs of labor would increase these rates of
return. The sensitivity analysis indicates that even with 10% adverse shifts
in costs or benefits all these components would generate reasonable internal
economic returns, none falling below 10%. (See Annex 11 for a summary of
quantified economic benefits.)
B. Urban Poverty Impact
7.07      While the main project thrust is stimulating economic activity in
these key regional cities, access by the poor to basic urban services and
shelter will be significantly improved. An estimated 32% of the population of
project cities have incomes that fall below the absolute urban poverty
threshold of P 2,660 per capita per year. This group is growing at about
5% per year. Overall approximately P 350 million or 34% of total project
costs are attributable to this poverty group.



- 43 -
7.08      Investments in shelter are targeted principally at serving the urban
poor. Approximately 70% of the residents in slum areas treated under the
project are in the urban poor group; the slum upgrading program will directly
benefit 38,000 persons or about 22% of the urban poor residing in slums.
Approximately 39,000 persons or about 50% of the beneficiaries of new sites
and services projects are urban poor; this program should accommodate another
21% of the urban poor residing in slums across all four cities. The
commercial/industrial plots located within sites and services areas are aimed
at improving job opportunities for residents in the area; approximately 30% of
the plots are expected to go to the poor.
7.09      For other components it is difficult to estimate the proportion of
investment attributed to the poverty group as the components are designed to
impact on all city r-;sidents. Approximate estimates of investments
attributable to the urban poor are as follows: (a) Urban transportation: 30%
- provision of sidewalks and pavement improvements contributing to improved
public transportation services; (b) solid wastes, sanitation and drainage: 35%
- location of facilities and services where urban poor reside; (c) municipal
enterprises: 25% - additional  small-scale  business opportunities for low
income families; and (d) training and technical assistance: 10%.
C. Environmental Impact
7.10      The project is expected to have a substantial net positive
environmental impact. Five project components - sanitation, solid waste
management, drainage, slaughterhouses, and markets - representing about 21% of
total project cost - are designed principally to improve environmental
conditions, especially water quality and disease risks in the project cities.
Slum upgrading and sites and services components, representing another 32% of
total project costs, will have significant positive environmental impacts
through improved human waste collections. The city street, road maintenance,
and traffic management components should collectively contribute to improving
traffic flows which will also have a positive, though limited, effect on air
quality through reduced vehicle emissions.
D. Risks
7.11      The principal risk is the managerial capability of the city govern-
ments to implement a project which is larger and more complex than any prior
governmental undertaking. MPWH assistance in municipal infrastructure and NHA
assistance in shelter components should substantially reduce the risk of
over-extending the city's managerial capabilities. The establishment of a
city project offices (CPOs) to focus the cities energies on the project plus
city commitments to hire and train additional key staff will further reduce
the risk.



- 44 -
7.12      A related risk is the need for the project cities to increase
general revenues promptly and to implement satisfactory cost recovery measures
on project-generated revenue generating components. Without these steps
revenues will not be sufficient to repay project loans and to meet additional
operating and maintenance budgets for existing and project-geaerated
infrastructure. Furthermore, the commitment to raise revenues must be a
continuing one to transcend possible changes in local municipal
administrations. To minimize this risk, the MOF has established a unit to
assist and monitor collection of municipal taxes and fees, and to strengthen
staff in those departments - shelter and municipal enterprises - where cost
recovery is critical. The creation of municipal enterprise departments
should improve financial arrangements in important municipal activities.
7.13      Land acquisition has represented a risk in all Philippine urban
projects both from the standpoint of project implementation delay and cost
escalation and is a particularly significant factor in this project as most
components require some land acquisition. Accordingly, delays in land
acquisition would delay progress on most components and increase project
costs. Should land costs related to shelter escalate, affordability to the
urban poor could be adversely affected. To reduce these risks, most project
lands will be purchased by experienced agencies (NRA and MPWH), and only 23%
of all project land will be purchased by the cities. Land acquisition
activities by all implementing agencies has begun. To reduce this risk,
negotiations for lands needed for commencing construction during the first
year of the implementation program (about half of all project lands) was
completed or expropriation proceedings were initiated prior to loan
negotiations (para. 5.21).
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED
8.01      During negotiations with Government the following understandings
were confirmed:
(a) that MLG will by July 1, 1984 recommend an action plan for staff
development in the project cities (para. 4.03);
(b) that (i) NHA and the cities have made staffing arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for implementation of shelter components
under the project; and that (ii) MPWH has made arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to construct selected, ancillary
facilities, under the shelter program (para. 5.08);
(c) that RCDPO will monitor procurement, withdrawal applications, and
implementation schedules of implementing agencies (para. 5.16);



- 45 -
(d) that the project cities, NHA and MPWH will implement accounting
systems satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.22);
(e) that RCDPO will monitor progress of the project and provide
quarterly progress reports to the Bank (para. 5.24); and
(f) that MOF strengthen and expand its local treasury operations to
assist and monitor implementation of revenue measures and
financial system improvements (para. 6.16).
8.02      Agreement was reached with Government during negotiations on the
following:
(a) that NHA take appropriate measures to strengthen its staff
(para. 4.11);
(b) that NRA will receive sufficient equity contributions to ensure
adequate financing for the project (para. 4.14);
(c) that NHA will implement a cost recovery program satisfactory to
the Bank for its sites and services and slum upgrading programs
(para. 4.15);
(d) that each project city will (i) by December 31, 1984 create and
staff Municipal Enterprise Departments (para. 5.06); and (ii)
maintain municipal enterprises on a financially viable basis by
adequate costing systems and pricing policies, subject to an
annual review by MOF (para. 6.07); and
(e) that each project city will by July 1, 1984 take measures to
improve their operations and maintenance functions (para. 5.20);
(f) that the project cities, NHA and MPWH will audit their financial
accounts and statements on an annual basis satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 5.23); and
(g) that each project city will establish targets for revenue
collection (para. 6.14); and that MOF will limit city borrowings
during the project period to levels not exceeding their debt
servicing capacities (para. 6.15).
8.03      Agreement was reached with Government at negotiations on the
following condition for loan effectiveness:
that subsidiary loan and on-lending agreements are signed with
on-lending terms satisfactory to the Bank between MOF and
responsible agencies (para. 3.06).



- 46 -
8.04      Agreement was reached with Government at negotiations on the
following condition for disbursement:
that an acceptable feasibility study is provided for a livelihood
zone in Davao (para. 2.14).
8.05      With understandings and agreements as indicated above, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$67.0 million. The loan, which includes a
capitalized front-end fee of 0.75% on the Bank loan, would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
The borrower will be the Republic of the Philippines.



- 47 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project Cities
1.         Iloilo.  This city is the largest city on Panay Island with a
population of approximately 244,000 persons and is the designated Regional
Capital of the Western Visayas, (Region VI). While it is the most important
trade and cultural center of the Western Visayas, its economy appears to
have stagnated in recent years. There are numerous sugar refining plants in
and around the city as well as a substantial ship repair industry in the
port area, the nation's fourth largest in tonnage. The main economic enter-
prises, however, are still the traditional ones of agriculture and
fisheries; the city remains basically unindustrialized. However, a large
and diverse set of investments should substantially spur the city's economy.
Supporting the proposed project are Bank-financed projects in Port Develop-
ment (Loan 1855-PH), Water Supply (Credit 920/Loan 1710-PH) and Roads (Loan
1353-PH).  The Japanese government is also financing a major fishport.
2.         Bacolod.  This city, with a 1980 population of approximately
267,000 persons, is the key city on the island of Negros. The city serves
as the primary service center to the nation's richest sugarcane producing
area; as a result, the city's economy closely parallels the cyclic trends
of the industry. The city needs to diversify its economy and to improve
its existing port facilities. A major landfill project on the city
waterfront being developed by the private sector may assist the city
economically. The Bank is financing a major road improvement project
linking the city with its hinterland (Loan 1353-PH). Water supply has
improved considerably by the completion of Phase I of a USAID funded
project in 1979.
3.         Cagayan de Oro.  The city has a total population of approximately
228,000 and an urbanized population of about 172,000 persons. The rapid
growth of Cagayan de Oro, which has a rich agricultural hinterland, has been
greatly enhanced by the provision of cheap hydroelectric power and the
improvement of the port and airport. The presence of an iron ore sintering
plant and other heavy industries, located approximately 25 km east of the
city, enhances the employment base of the surrounding city area. In addition,
the city has potential to develop as an agricultural processing, trading, and
shipping center. The Bank has financed a first phase slum upgrading and
sites and services project in the city (Loan 1647-PH) and two port projects
(Loans 939/1855-PH).  A major road project passing through the city and
improving linkages with the hinterland has been completed and was financed
by Asian Development Bank (ADB). ADB together with US Agency for
International Development (USAID) are also financing major expansions to the
city's water system.



ANNEX 1
48                         Page 2
4.        Davao.  The city is the nation's third largest urban agglomeration
and the largest in Mindanao with a population of approximately 611,000
persons of which about 422,000 are in the urbanized area. The city is by
far the largest in land area within the Philippines. The main economic
activity is the processing of agricultural products (particularly coconuts,
bananas and wood) which come from its rich hinterland. Two public ports
(the major one of which is being expanded with German aid) and several
private ports make this city the nation's third ranking port. The city-s
economy received a major boost when the Mindanao power grid with low cost
electricity reached the city in 1981. The Bank financed an initial sites
and services and slum upgrading project in the city (Loan 1647-PH) and
expansion to the city-s water system is financed by USAID.



-49                          ANNEX 1
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Population Trends in Seven Largest Cities
Population (OO's)       Annual Population Growth(%)
1960/   1970/   1975/
City                 1960   1970   1975   1980       1970    1980    1980
Metro Manila /a    2,446  3,967  4,970  5,924         5.0     4.1      3.6
Metro Cebu /b         462    638    744    945        3.3     4.0      4.9
*Davao /c              226    392    485    611        5.7     3.5      4.7
Zamboanga /c          131    200    265    344        4.3     5.5      5.4
*Bacolod               119    187    223    267        4.6     3.6      3.7
*Iloilo                151    210    227    244        3.4     1.5      1.5
*Cagayan de Oro/c       68    128    165    228        6.5     5.9      6.7
/a  Includes 4 cities and 13 municipalities.
/b  Includes 3 cities and 7 municipalities.
/c  Has significant rural population as corporate limits extend well into
rural areas.
*   Proposed Project City.



- 50 -                                 ANNEX 1
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Population Trends of RCDP Cities in Relation to
Provincial and Regional Population Trends
Annual increase (%)
Population (O000s)       1960-  1970-  1970-  1975-
1960   1970   1975   1980  1970   1980   1975   1980
Iloilo City                          151    210    227    244   3.4    1.5    1.6    1.5
Iloilo Province                    966  1,168  1,313  1,432   1.9    2.1    2.4    1.8
Panay Island /a                  1,745  2,114  2,360  2,595   1.9    2.1    2.2    1.9
Region VI (Western Visayas)    3,078  3,618  4,146  4,532   1.6    2.3    2.8    108
Bacolod City                         119    187    223    267   4.6    3.6    3.6    3.7
Negros Occidental                1,332  1,504  1,786  1,937   1.2    2.5    3.5    1.6
Region VI (Western Visayas)    3,078  3,618  4,146  4,532   1.6    2.3    2.8    1.8
Cagayan de Oro City                   68    128    165    zz8   6.5    5.9    5.2    6.7
Misamis Oriental                   344    473    560    694   3.2    3.9    3.4    4.4
Region X (Northern Mindanao)   1,297  1,953  2,314  2,746   4.2    3.5    3.5    3.5
Davao City                           226    392    485    611   5.7    4.5    4.3    4.7
Davao del Sur                      498    785    936  1,134   4.7    3.7    3.6    3.9
Davao del Norte and del Sur        761  1,227  1,525  1,827   4.9    4.0    4.4    3.7
Region XI (Southern Mindanao)  1,353  2,201  2,715  3,311   5.0    4.2    4.3    4.0
/a  Includes the provinces of Iloilo, Aklan, Antique and Capiz.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINESP
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                  TABLE A
BACOLOD DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(P MILLION)
COST BY CATEGORY                              INVESTMENT BY AGENCY
COMPONENT      CIVIL  EQUIP-    BASE   DSN I    SUB-   CONTINGENCIES    LAND   TOTAL    CITY    MPUH          NHA
WORKS    MENT    COST    SPVN   TOTAL    PHYS   PRICE               COST
A CITY STREETS      18.77    0.00   18.77    1.69   20.46    2.82    7.06    1.40   31.74    0.00   31.74    0.00
BANAGOIBATA       3,92             3.92    0.35    4.27    0.59    1.66    0.78    7.30                7.30
GRANADA/MURCIA   11.46            11.46    1.03   12.49    1.72    4.29    0.62   19.12               19.12
BAKAYAS BRIDGE    0.99             0.99    0.09    1.08    0.15    0,35               1.58             1.58
MAGSUNGAY BRDG    1.35             1,35    0.12    1,47    0.20    0.48               2.15             2.15
TRAFFIC MGMT       1.05            1.05    0.09    1.14    0.16    0.28               1.58             1.58
B RD MAINTENANCE    1.57    3.78    5.35    0.25    5.60    0,24    1.70    0.00    7.54    7,54    0.00    0.00
C DRAINAGE           3.37    0.00    3.37    0.30    3.67    0.51    0.75    0.00    4.93    0.00    4.93    0.00
D SOLID W MGMT       2.10    4.48    6.58    0.32    6.90    0,32    2.14    0.00    9.36    9.36    0.00    0.00
E SANITATION        0.63    2.77    3,40    0.14    3.54    0.09    0.58    0.00    4.21    4.21    0.00    0.00
F MARKETS            6,46    0,00    6.46    0.61    7.07    1.03    2.08    0.00   10.17   10.17    0.00    0.00
CENTRAL-REHAB     0.29             0.29    0.03    0.32    0.06    0.05               0.43    0.43
LIBERTAD-REHAB    0.62             0.62    0.07    0.69    0,12    0,12               0.93    0.93
BURGOS-REHAB      0.27             0,27    0.03    0.30    0.05    0.05               0.40    0.40
ADDL MKT-NEW      5.28             5.28    0.48    5.76    0.79    1.85               8.40    8.40
G SITES&SERVICES   44.39    3.18   47.57    4.09   51.66    6.66   20.52    7,14   85.98   51.59    0.00   34,39
VILLAMONTE-1680   16.34            16.34    1.47   17.81    2.45    7.86    2.70   30.82   18,49               12,33
VILLAMONTE I/C     5.23             5,23    0.47    5,70    0.78    1.93    0.55    8.97    5.38                3.59
BANAGO-1032      12.65            12.65    1.14   13.79    1490    5.22    3.38   24.28   14.57                9.71
BANAGO I/C        2.32             2.32    0.21    2.53    0.35    0.62    0.51    4.01    2.40                1.60
NEW MARKET-157    0.95             0.95    0.09    1.04    0.14    0.14               1.32    0,79             0.53
BUILDING LOANS             3,18    3.18    0.10    3.28              1.63             4.90    2.94             1.96
COMMUNITY FAC     6.90             6.90    0.62    7.52    1.04    3.12              11.68    7.01             4.67
H SLUM UPGRADING    8.67    0.00    8.67    0,95    9.62    1.73    3.95    2.94   18.25   10,95    0,00    7.30
YULO PARK-430     3.30             3.30    0.36    3.66    0.66    1.49    0.46    6.27    3.76                2.51
NEW MARKET-192    0.80             0.80    0.09    0.89    0.16    0,12    0.13    1.30    0,78                0,52
MALALUSAN-249     1.40             1.40    0.15    1.55    0.28    0.66    0.85    3.34    2.01                1.34
OTHERS-650        3.17             3.17    0.35    3.52    0.63    1.68    1.50    7.33    4.40                2.93
(B'GAY 1-300)
TOTAL           85.96   14.21  100.17    8.36  108.53   13.39   38.79   11.48  172.18   93.82   36.67   41,69
100,17          108.53                            172,18                   172.18
N.B.  DESIGN & SUPERVISION IS 3% ON EQUIPMENT AND 9% ON ALL COMPONENTS IN CIVIL WORKS COLUMN, EXCEPT FOR SLUM UP
GRADING & MARKET REHABILITATION WHICH HAS 11%. PHYSICAL CONTINENCIES OF 15X HAVE BEEN ADDED TO ALL CONPO-
NENTS IN CIVIL WORKS COLUMN, EXCEPT FOR SLUM UPGRADING AND MARKET REHABILITATION WHICH HAS 20%.



-52 -                                                     ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINES                                    -------
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                        TABLE B
CAGAYAN DE ORO DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(P MILLION)
COST BY CATEGORY                              INVESTMENT BY AGENCY
COMPONENT      CIVIL  EQUIP-    BASE   DSN I    SUB-   CONTINGENCIES    LAND   TOTAL    CITY    MPWH          NHA
WORKS    MENT    COST    SPVN   TOTAL    PHYS   PRICE               COST
A CITY STREETS      13.80    0.00   13.80    1.24   15.04    2.07    5.04    0.06   22.21    5.92   16.29    0.00
COGON MKT          1.79            1.79    0.16    1.95    0.27    0.65               2.87    2.87
CARMEN MKT        1.90             1.90    0.17    2.07    0.29    0.69               3.05    3.05
GAERLAN            1.17            1.17    0.11    1.28    0.18    0,44    0.06    1.95                1.95
VAMENTA           2.84             2.84    0.26    3.10    0.43    1.03               4.56             4.56
BDRJA             0.84             0.84    0.08    0.92    0.13    0.31               1.35             1.35
NATIONAL HGOAY    1.47             1.47    0.13    1.60    0.22    0.54               2.36             2.36
OSMENA            3.79             3.79    0.34    4.13    0.57    1.38               6.08             6.08
B RD MAINTENANCE    0,00    6.92    6.92    0.21    7.13    0.00    2.07    0.00    9.20    9.20    0.00    0.00
C DRAINAGE         20.52    0.44   20.96    1.86   22.82    3.08   11.34    5. 2   42.65    7.71   34.94    0.00
CITY              4.21    0.44    4.65    0.39    5.04    0.63    2.04                7.71    7.71
MPWH             16.31            16.31    1.47   17.78    2.45    9.30    5.42   34.94               34.94
D SOLID W MGMT       0.79    6.69    7.48    0.27    7.75    0,12    2,43    0.32   10.62   10.62    0.00    0.00
E SLAUGHTERHOUSE    2.37    2.48    4.85    0.29    5.14    0.36    1.17    0.42    7.08    7.08    0.00    0.00
TABLON     -----   -----   -----   -----   ---           -----    -----    -----    -----    ---
F MARKETS            3.83    0.00    3.83    0.42    4.25    0.77    1.06    0.00    6.08    6.08    0.00    0.00
COGON-REHAB       2.54             2.54    0.28    2.82    0.51    0.70               4.03    4.03
CARMEN-REHAB       1.10            1.10    0.12    1.22    0.22    0,30               1.75    1.75
PUERTO-REHAB      0.19             0.19    0.02    0.21    0.04    0.05               0.30    0.30
6  BUS TERMINALS    4.50    0.00    4.50    0.41    4.91    0468    1.95    0.00    7.53    7.53    0.00    0.00
H SITESISERVICES    9.86    1.06   10.92    0.92   11.84    1.48    3.30    0.60   17,22   10.33    0.00    6.89
KAUSUAGAN-855     5.00             5.00    0.45    5.45    0.75    1.30               7.50    4.50             3.00
KAUSWAGAN I/C     4.69             4.69    0.42    5.11    0.70    1.53    0.60    7.94    4.77                3.18
BUILDING LOANS             1.06    1.06    0.03    1.09              0.40             1.50    0.90             0.60
COMMUNITY FAC     0.17             0.17    0.02    0,19    0.03    0.06               0.27    0.16             0.11
I SLUM UPGRADING    4.22    0.00    4.22    0.46    4,68    0.84    3,22    2.00   10.75    6.45    0.00    4.30
-700              -----                                               _ ---__    -----   -----   -----   -
TOTAL           59.89   17.59   77.48    6.08   83.56    9,39   31.58    8.82  133.34   70.92   51.24   11.19
77.48           83.56                            133.34                   133.34
N.B.  DESIGN I SUPERVISION IS 3Z ON EQUIPMENT AND 9% ON ALL COMPONENTS IN CIVIL WORKS COLUMN, EXCEPT FOR SLUM UP
GRADING I MARKET REHABILITATION WHICH HAS Ill. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES OF 15X HAVE BEEN ADDED TO ALL COMPO-
NENTS IN CIVIL WORKS COLUMN. EXCEPT FOR SLUM UPGRADING AND MARKET REHABILITATION WHICH HAS 20X.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINES                                 -
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                 TABLE C
DAVAO DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(P MILLION)
COST BY CATEGORY                             INVESTHENT BY AGENCY
COMPONENT      CIVIL  EQUIP-    BASE   DSN I    SUB-   CONTINGENCIES    LAND   TOTAL    CITY    MPWH       NHA
WORKS    MENT    COST    SPVN   TOTAL    PHYS   PRICE             COST
------------------------------------------------------------------___---------__-------------------------------
A CITY STREETS     67.79    0.00   67.79    6.10   73.89   10.17   34.86   17.60  136.52   24.57  111.95    0.00
LAPU LAPU         3.26            3.26    0.29    3.55    0.49    2.35    3.60    9.99    9.99
S PEDRO/PICHON    2.42            2.42    0.22    2.64    0.36    1.66    2.40    7.06    7.06
HCARTHUR (HAA)    1.26            1.26    0.11    1.37    0.19    0,77    0.60    2.93              2,93
QUIRINO           1.47            1.47    0.13    1.60    0.22    0.86    0,60    3.28              3.28
LAUREL           10.00           10.00    0.90   10,90    1.50    4,78    1.20   18.38             18.38
BUHANGIN          7.27            7.27    0.65    7.92    1.09    4.12    2.60   15.73             15.73
CASTILLO          8.21            8.21    0.74    8.95    1.23    3.71    0.40   14.29             14.29
QUEZON-GARCIA     9.69            9.69    0,87   10.56    1.45    4.57    1.00   17.59             17.59
DAVAO-AGUSAN     11.37           11.37    1.02   12,39    1.71    6.87    5.20   26.17             26,17
NEW MATINA CON    3.47            3.47    0,31    3.78    0.52    1.21             5.51    5.51
AGDAO MKT ROAD    1.26            1,26    0.11    1.37    0.19    0.44             2.00    2.00
DAVAO R BRIDGE    5.37            5.37    0.48    5.85    0.81    2.33             8.99             8.99
TRAFFIC MGHT      2.74            2.74    0.25    2.99    0.41    1.19             4.59             4.59
B RD MAINTENANCE    3,57   14.36   17.93    0.75   18.68    0.54    5.71    0.42   25.35   25.35    0.00    0.00
C DRAINAGE         22.31    0.76   23.07    2.03   25.10    3.35   12.22    3.34   44.00    5.48   38,53    0.00
CITY                2.53    0.76    3.29    0.25    3.54    0.38    1.56    0,00    5.48    5.48
MPWH               19.78           19.78    1.78   21.56    2.97   10.66    3.34   38.53             38.53
D SOLID W MGMT      1.79    6.99    8.78    0.37    9.15    0.27    3.42    2.10   14.94   14.94    0,00    0.00
E SLAUGHTERHOUSE    3.25    3.21    6.46    0.39    6.85    0.49    1.04    0.40    8.78    8.78    0.00    0.00
MA-A               -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----
F HARKETS          20.16    0.00   20.16    1.90   22,06    3.24    5.59    1.10   31.98   31.98    0.00    0.00
TORIL-REHAB       4.22            4.22    0.46    4.68    0.84    0.79             6.31    6.31
AGDAO-NEW         8,76            8.76    0.79    9.55    1.31    2.62    0.50   13,98   13.98
NEW MATINA-NEW    2.22            2.22    0.20    2.42    0.33    0.63             3.39    3.39
PIAPI-NEW         1.69            1.69    0.15    1.84    0.25    0.48             2.58    2,58
TALOHO-NEW        3.27            3.27    0.29    3.56    0.49    1.07    0.60    5.73    5.73
G BUS TERMINALS     5,17    0.00    5.17    0.47    5.64    0.78    0.91    0.00    7.32    7.32    0.00    0.00
NEW-HATINA    -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----
H LIVELIHOOD       14.60    0.53   15.13    1.33   16,46    2.19    5.78    1.58   26.01   26.01    0.00    0.00
ZONE               -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   ----             -----   -----   -----   -----
I SITESISERVICES   38.15    6.32   44.47    3.62   48.09    5.72   27.46   16.41   97,69   58.61    0.00   39.07
_____   ---_--_-           --   -  --__ ____ ____ __ _   ---_ -_ _  ____  -_ _   -----   -----   -----
AGDAO-700         6.42            6.42    0.58    7.00    0.96    2.53    1.92   12.41    7.45              4,96
AGDAO I/C         6.07            6.07    0.55    6.62    0.91    2.00    1.62   11,15    6.69              4.46
OTHERS-3300      25.00           25.00    2.25   27.25    3.75   19.35   12.87   63.22   37.93             25.29
BUILDING LOANS            6.32    6,32    0.19    6.51             3.33            9.84    5.91             3.94
COMMUNITY FAC     0.66            0.66    0.06    0.72    0.10    0.25              1.07    0.64            0.43
J SLUM UPGRADING   16.86    0.00   16.86    1.85   18.71    3.37    7.24    2.00   31.33   18.80    0.00   12.53
PIAPI II-1380    -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----
TOTAL          193.65   32.17  225.82   18.82  244.64   30.10  104.23   44.95  423.92  221.83  150.48   51.61
225.82          244.64                           423.92                  423.92
N.B.  DESIGN & SUPERVISION IS 3% ON EQUIPMENT AND 9% ON ALL COMPONENTS IN CIVIL WORKS COLUMN, EXCEPT FOR SLUM UP
GRADING & MARKET REHABILITATION WHICH HAS 11%. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES OF 15X HAVE BEEN ADDED TO ALL COMPO-
NENTS IN CIVIL WORKS COLUMN, EXCEPT FOR SLUM UPGRADING AND MARKET REHABILITATION WHICH HAS 20X.



- 54 -                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~ANhEX 2
PHILIPPINES                                  AINES   2
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                         TABLE D
ILOILO DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(P MILLION)
COST BY CATEGORY                               INVESTMENT BY AGENCY
COMPONENT       CIVIL  EQUIP-    BASE   DSN I    SUB-   CONTINGENCIES    LAND   TOTAL    CITY    MPWH           NHA
WORKS    MENT    COST    SPVN   TOTAL    PHYS   PRICE                COST
A CITY STREETS      10.78    0.00   10.78    0.97   11.,75    1.55    3.62    1.20   18.12    6.72   11.40    0.00
JALANDONI          3.76             3.76    0.34    4.10    0.56    1.24    0.30    6.20    6.20
PORT/LA PAZ        6.60             6.60    0.59    7.19    0.99    2.15    0.50   10.83                10.83
PORT/LA PAZ EX                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.40    0.52    0.52
TRAFFIC MGMT       0.42             0.42    0.04    0.46              0.11             0.57              0.57
B RD MAINTENANCE    0.84    4.07    4.91    0.20    5.11    0.13    1.52    0.00    6.76    6.76    0.00    0.00
C DRAINAGE           1.84    0.00    1.84    0.17    2.01    0.28    0.53    0.00    2.81    0.00    2.81    0.00
B SOLID W MGMT       3.04    6.94    9.98    0.48   10.46    0.46    3.34    0.34   14060   14.60    0.00    0.00
E SANITATION         0.00    2.77    2.77    0.08    2.85    0.00    0.41    0.00    3t27    3.27    0.00    0.00
F MARKETS           14.12    0.00   14.12    1.52   15.64    2.75    3.28    0.17   21,83   20.76    0.00    1.07
CENTRAL-REHAB      9.50             9.50    1.05   10.55    1.90    2.07              14.51   14.51
TERMINAL-REHAB    1.39              1.39    0.15    1.54    0.28    0.30               2.12    2.12
LA PAZ-REHAB       1.65             1.65    0.18    1.83    0.33    0.36               2.52    2.52
MANDURRIAO-NEW    1.58              1.58    0.14    1.72    0.24    0.55    0.17    2.68    1.61                 1.07
1 SITES&SERVICES   23.22    3.18   26.40    2.19   28.59    3,48   13.94    4.62   50.63   30.38    0.00   20.25
MANDURRIAO-1857   15.67             15.67    1.41   17.08    2.35    9.16    4.18   32.77   19.66                13,11
MANDURRIAO I/C      5.13             5.13    0.46    5.59    0.77    2.05    0.44    8.85    5.31                 3.54
BUILDING LOANS             3.18    3.18    0.10    3.28               1.58             4.86    2.91              1.94
COMMUNITY FAC      2.42             2.42    0.22    2.64    0.36    1.15               4.15    2.49              1.66
H SLUM UPGRADING   18.26    0.00   18.26    2.01   20.27    3.65    8.88    0.50   33.30   19.98    0.00   13.32
B OBRERO-1281    12.31             12.31    1.35   13.66    2.46    5.66              21.78   13.07              8,71
FORESHORE-1300    5.95              5.95    0,65    6.60    1,19    3.22    0.50   11.52    6.91                 4.61
TOTAL            72.10   16.96   89.06    7.61   96.67   12.29   35.53    6.83  151.33  102.47   14.21   34.64
89.06            96.67                            151,33                    151.33
DESIGN I SUPERVISION IS 3X ON EQUIPMENT AND 9% ON ALL COMPONENTS IN CIVIL WORKS COLUfN, EXCEPT FOR SLUM UP
GRADING M MARKET REHABILITATION WHICH HAS llZ. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES OF 15X HAVE BEEN ADDED TO ALL COMPO-
NENTS IN CIVIL WORKS COLUMN, EXCEPT FOR SLUM UPGRADING AND MARKET REHABILITATION WHICH HAS 20X.



'qIL I Pp up.S
REG IONAL CITIES CUPl  hTpRO PC 
Ageny       CaRts (P mlt)        Length oP                                                                  Physical  ispro.a..                                          _____________l
_opa_t   Constru-               ter ertT  railttig                                                      atao                                                                                        R-ight-op-ay            R--eaol at
City/ete-en                               tibia       tier       Las-        ks          e   ai- onen          WOdenI ra         Pate eI          nope      leMo   Arlao Slnther  -c:  raneni Pnsnp  trap-sd    hollr'laps
Rango/Z t                              ttPol        3R9D      R.78    1.3            DL     3.63 + nih           -                                                   X                       
0Iranda /Ronntigat                     HPIH                             2             21DL P 3.5 I ath                                           PUG-:C                                                                                       -'
M   1W 11.46      0.62                           36
Rannli.gatRarr-                           WIO                          1.4            2L 0 365        h ni       --                               cC        --                             ocdr ta hldn
Bakoyan Bridge                         IPl           0.99     -        RIl                   -                                                                                              edeol                                                                
-:a.oay.rd~r.~                                                    .1 .                                                      -               -         -                     5         p/x3                                                                 
Tr-ffir enoge..e.t                     city          1.05     -        --                                                                                                         -        SPP   ol/h---
Snbtotal_1 7R.l                                            I40    S.R
C.gay-a de ito
Pagan Mopter                           City         1.19      -         .R                   -               -Iraplblel                          AC        -                              Pa-kiny, pa( termInal          -ffptl   rp-.    '/A           5/A 
Ma.e Maket                         City         1.9R0              0.5                   -               (n-iahie)            -AC                                I            C       Pahn,pjtrla        rPi    gt.  N5/A                           Rio           -
Roerian                      ~~~~~~       ~~~~~PWpg  i17 I  0.R6    0.1            -                                                   AC                   I           p         e  ota   tro    aAo rdeno                        /           I       
Ran.-                                  MPOR          2.R4     -        0.9                   -             L )t 3.0               --CC                                C           C                                                           SI
C.-.                          MPol         3.9      -        1.                                  L B 3.C1yf3.35                        AC.        -2  -A                                                                                         /P
Natinna  oighry                        MpoC          1.31     -        43)--                                                                                -         --                   stret lightlop  soly                             V/2         I/             -
TralonnarriCity                                      Ri       -        -                                         --                                                                        Ser noe/k                                                             
Sobtota1l1 AR                                              0.06    9 R
L.po Lapt/Sta. Coo                     City         3.26      3.6      1.3                   -            L 0 3.00 Pt.             .             ACC       -                                                                                  S1 
C.PdpnyohnCiy                                        3.42     240    2.                    i (Pt.3               -                I              PCC        -                     0       Pe-aySceo1                                                      IR
IRrorthar                    it~~~ ~ ~~~~~Pi  1.26  0.60    0.3                    -             L @3.5 +nh             -              PCC        C         R'  A-S                                                                             25 
Qnirino                      ti~~~   ~ ~~~~~~PWH  1.41  0.60    1.5                -                                                   PCC                 p1           p        -                                                 20           23I
L-t-ri                                 PIPII       tORi       1.20    2.3                    -             L Ct 3.5               -           AC, PUC       0         0           5                                                         2 Alt-l 3   )P-30 
Bakangin                     R~~~~ ~ ~~~~~POW  1.27  2.6R    1.5                   -             L B 0.                                A                                0 Pti-1                                                                 2y0
g. Contilir  (inter)         liPOR~~M                        I.                                 4L a  .50               -AC                       0         C           C        -                                                  R310
(ro.te)                 RpR                             2.1                   -             L B 3.50 + nh                       A C, 'CC     P         C                                                                       A           C
Ilarano                      Rt~~~~       ~        ~ ~ ~~~PWI  -   2.-                          4L, 0 3OhS  Pt.         C PI.          PCC        C                     0         xA 
Porno.         (Inne)                   tP"Rd         i                0.                    -            4ALBAC                  -              PC,                  --                                                                     15           15 
(rater)          OfliP             ~            ~~~~ 0.6               -            4L B 3. 5               -PC                       -                     0                                                          19'C         50
bear   goAn,                           IIpR        1137       ADR      1.                                4L 0 3.5+n                              AC         0         C           -        llder Sao   rIg                                   DR          A
ten M.air   Cooet,Ct                               1.4 -;               O'           CtBRA                      -                               5          -                     C         atoPNraRtn    ie    erle                           -          D2      
kgda-  Racket                          City          1.06              C . 3                 -             L a li/A                              NA5        -                     0        -                                                NI/A        'i/A-
LA _Laco -Laaa   Road                  RPRII         5.31              6 .6(ORal31           -                                                   G          -                              LocateId  io roral  Roen; inroden                N/A         C/A-
T-fftic  n...ageet                     City         2.14      -        ---                                                 --                                                              S_rnt  I                                                           
Sohbtotl                                       61.01    l7y60  24.1
Jolandoni                              City          3.16     0.30    0.7             DL B 3.65 + oh1-,                                          PUCC       -         C                    lo-ladr   hpldgr                                         '
Port/La  Pe                            OPICR        6.60      050    1.9              2L    3.65 +hk                                             PCC        -         P--                                                                           A 
InrtlL Poe  gtotenein                  Ctty         -         040    -                                                            --                        -         -             
TeaPtlp  _arg__t                       City         0.42      -                                                                                                       --                   iente/-                                                     
Sobt-tl                                         10.78      1.00    2.6
Total                                         154.65    20.26   41.3
Legend:  DL B 3.65 e  hk    2 loeea            -cero   oidth oP 3.65 eeenplan  ehooldern
O      itro1 inoided                                       po j - pablir otli1y_ a  je-p-ey
-    - tree  one included                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~AC  -    paholtI1   orrl 
N     aboolai.r piloi                                   PCC -pacel1and  -enre    I-apen
pt. -port oP alignmen.t                                   C      gr-ne
I  anemen  rt_op d-nigr ard aop-riaina, nod.rP   ..rtingen-le
6   In-loden  phnga  impro-ee-ot  to  air Ja.otior   and  -rafnc  nange..e.t  -h..nne  -p-od nhpe napkIns.
Incinden  nirr nigning  ad rocking rot leIlde    in  mad iePrrre.. I-  pc-grn
/e  -1old-s irPr---tai   to  three  --aio-d  _nenp              _a,reay n tree  nynre, and  --ooiing  Ia oily ortor



PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Works
(Pesos '000, at April 1983 prices)
I loIllo                                    Bacolod                   I                  Cagayan de Oro                                                  Davao
Item               Length    Cost/bh         Item               Length    Cost/bi         Item                Type   Length/a  Cost/bl           Item                          Type  Lengtb   Cost/b
(ms)     (-0o)1                             (m)      (00C)I                                       (m)      (-000)1                                               (m)    (-00)
Foreshore                                    F Poreshore                                                                                       I A.  Main Drains
Fill, pipe extensions                   I Reclamation interface                       | A.  Main Drains                                     I   Phase I
and related works                       I  Section 1                                     Phase I                                           I    Agdao Creek Catchment Area
160             I    Landtill, riprap                        I    Poblacion/Nazareth                                |    - Culvert Gorcia Street
I    protection, pro-                        I    Section 1-2             A-3    1,345             l       main drain to Gulf              A-1       90
Desilting of                            I    vision of pipes,                         I    Section 2-3             A-1       610
existing pipes          660              I    lined canals &                          I    Section 3-Chavez St. A-3          390            I    Dacudao Ave. Catchment Area
I    related works           260             I    Mobulay Street          B-1       220             |    - Culvert to Agdao Creek
Subtotal            820      1 ,572 7                                                  Section 7-8             A-1       380            I       drain                           B-2        -
I          Subtotal          260      1,030 I    Section 8-9              A-3       565
Dungnn Creek                                                                            I                                                      I    Roxas Ave. Catchment Area
Bank protection                         I  Section 2                                  I        Subtotal                    3,510     5,644 I    - Quezon blvd. to the Gulf    A-3            275
with riprap, &                           I    Provision of pipes,                                                                          DI    -  redging/replace culverts.
related works           240              I    box culverts, and                       I   Phase 2                                           I       Roxas Ave.                      A-3      565
I    related works           150             I    Poblacion/Nazareth                               I    - Connection  Quirina Ave.   C-1/B-2  340
Subtotal            240        265 I                                             I    Osmema Street            C-i       660
Subtotal          150        980 I    Corrales Avenue          C-I       490             I    Quirina Ave. Catchment Area
Total             1,060      1,817 8  3                                                Aguinaldo Street        A-i       340            |    - Tionko Street drain              B-i      690
|  Section 3                                 I    Section 9-11          A-i/B-I  1,000              1
Riprap protection,                                                                            I          Subtotal                            1,960     9,800
excavation of open                     I        Subtotal                     2,490     3,907 I
canal, and related                                                                            I   Phase 2
works                   340             I    Carmen                                           I    Agdao Creek Catchment Area
I    Section 13-14           A-i       445            |    - Main Drain                       B-2      250
I       Subtotal             340        680 I    Section 14-15          A-I/C-I    600
I Lanang Cat chment Area
Section 4                                 I        Subtotal                    1,045     1,290 1    - Initial improvements              B-2      635
I    Lined canal, rip-                                                                              I
I    rap protection,                         I   Phase 3                                           I           Subtotal                             885    5 040
landfill, and                           I    Poblacion/Nazareth
I    related works           500             I    Section 1-2             A-i   (1,310)             I   Phase 3
I    Section 3-Chavez St. A-1         (390)           I    Dacudao Catchment Area
Subtotal            500        680 I    Section 8-9              A-1       (565)           I    - Dredging/replace culverts   A-3   1,275
- Veloso Street/connection
Total             1,250      3,370 I         Subtotal                   (2,265)   5,472 |          to J.P. Laurel                 B-3   1,005
|     (of total cost, Pesos 435,000          I B.  Laterals, Phases 1-3 /c                          I          Subtotal                           2,280     4.940
I      is on access ways)                    I   Priority laterals in
I   Carmen, Poblacion &   Vary-                       I B.  Laterals, Phase 2 & 3 /c
I   Nazareth                 Ing    8,000             I   - Priority laterals Roxad
I     Quirino, Agdao Creek and         Vary-
Subtotal             s      8,000    4,210 I        Lanang                           ing   4.820
i  4    Total                      15,045   20,523 I             Subtotal                           4,8Z0      2,530
Total                              9,945   22.310
/a  Length within (   ) indicates work on existing drain.
/b  Cost is net of detailed engineering, contingencies, and land acquisition.
/c  City financed components.
>4
Types of drains:       A-1  Trapezoidal cross-section, fully lined.                       B-1  Open canal, rectangular cross-section.                       C-1  Pipe.                                             v
A-3  Trapezoidal cross-section, bottom lined.                      B-2  Box culvert.



57-                                                                      ANNEX 5
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal Enterprises Component
Markets - Principal Features
Market activities
Rental
Informal        apace,
Project    Site   Covered                       vending        shops, etc. Service                Services
cost       area    area                           area           area       Area               Water   Drain-  Elec-
City/site            P mIn /a    (ha)   <--------       -------------(sq  )----------------------->  Toilets  supply   age   tricity                  Remarks
Iloilo
Central Market       9.50        1.3    9,430                                        1,140          500   <----- Improved services ----->  - Existing 2 story struc-
(Rehab.)                                                                                                                                       ture to be rehabilitated.
- New single story market
building at rear.
- New light roof over cen-
tral area.
- Boundary walls and access
gates on 2 sides.
- No column foundations for
future buildings.
Terminal Market    1.39          1.6    <---- Roof and floor repairs  ----->                          -   <----- Improved service- ----->           u
(Rehab.)                                324 (new)
La Pan Market        1.65        2.1    <---- Roof and floor repairs ----->                           -   <----- Improved c.crvice-  ----->
(Rehab.)                                624 (new)
Mandurias (New)    1.58          2.2    <oFencing and gates, water, dtainage, etc to permit ----____________   >
open air marketing activities for present.
Bacolod
Central Market       0.29        0.9    <-- General renovation, roof repairs, improved water, drainage, etc. improved access. --->
(Rehab.)
Libertad Market    0.62          1.5      Roof                                                            Improved   New  <-Improvements->
(Rehab.)                              repairs                                                           toilets   water
720 (new)                                                                   supply
Burgos Market        0.27        0.8    <---------------------- General renovations, roof repairs, etc. ------------------------>
(Rehab.)
Addl. Marker         5.28/b      1.0    ----- NSe  site to be selected on North side.  Generally name  retail market facilities --->  To replace nem  market pro-
(NSe)                                        proposed for reclamation site with adequate informal vending areas.                             posed on reclamation sites.
Approx. 0.7 ha.
Cagayan do Oro
Cogon. (Rehab.)    2.54          1.2    Roof repairs.  Main buildings structures.
1,148 (new)  --- 2,250 renovations ---
Floor 6 pavement repairs 6 addt'l. stalls.                       <----- Improved service  ----->
Carmen (Rehab.)    1.10          0.8    Demolish abbatoir.  New market masters            -           -   <-- Fence 6 gates.  Drainage ->
office, paving 3,300 sq e.  General re-                                system, public faucets.
novations. New stalls in abbatoir area
Puerto (Rehab.)    0.19          0.2    - General renovations, paving 400 sq a -          -            -   <-- Fence, drainage system, ->
public faucets.
Davao
Toril (Rehab)        4.22        1.3    630 existing building, land filling, new    -            2,250   Improved   New        New
roads, 350 sq m paved area fur transient                                    water  drainage
vendors.                                                                     supply  system
Agdao (New)          8.76/c      2.0    New conceptual plan and feasibility study to provide for rehab. of emisting structures,
considerably expanded marketing facilities, Jeepney terminal/bus interchange and parking
and co=cercial lots, to be agreed before negotiations.  Proposal presented to rehabilitate
existing markets costed at P 5.7 mill agreed as not exploiting the full potential of site.
New Matins           2.22        1.0    1,200                           120              -          800   Drainage, sanitation, water
(New)                                                                                                   and electricity to be provided.
Piapi (New)          1.69        1.0    2,436                           150              -          500   <---------- ditt          ----------_>
Talomo (New)         3.27        1.0    2,436                           170               -       1,000   <---------- ditto --------->
Total        44.57       19.9
/a Estimated Base Costa April 1983.
7i Includes cost of site acquisition.
7t Based on costs of expanded market layout osly.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal Enterprises Component - Slaughterhouses and Bus Terminals
City/site                                      Component
Slaughterhouses
Davao
Ma'a                        National Meat Inspection Commission (NMIC)
Class A/B slaughterhouse, to suit city retail trade
requirements. Throughput of 400 hogs + 50 large
animals designed and constructed in accordance with
"criteria for classification of abbatoir and
processing plant" NMIC January 1977.
Cagayan de Oro
Site to be selected         NMIC Class A/B slaughterhouse, to suit city retail
trade requirements. Throughput 250 hogs + 35
large animals.
Bus Terminals
Davao
New Matina                   Sited on 2.50 ha of NHA-owned land.  Facilities
for 40 arrival and departure bays. Facility to be
redesigned to accommodate additional bus bays based
on appraisal mission recommendation to eliminate a
second bus terminal from the project.
Cagayan de Oro
Agora                        Sited on 1 ha of city-owned land west of Agora
Market. Facilities for 32 arrival and departure
bays. Terminal buildings, waiting sheds, etc.
Inclusion in project contingent on firm agreement
to activate Agora Market.



ANNEX 6
- 59 -
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plant, Equipment and Vehicles for Road Maintenance, Solid Wastes Management, Drainage and Sanitation
(April 1983 prices)
Quantity per City                        Unit       Total
Cagayan               Total      cost        cost
Type                                        Sector /a   Iloilo  Bacolod   de Oro    Davao   quantity         ($)        ($)
Multipurpose road maintenance vehicle         RM            I        I         -          -        2      53,000    106,000
Diesel dump trucks 5 cu m                     RM/DR         1        1         2         13       17      25,000    425,000
Asphalt distributor                           RM            -        1         1          1        3      50,000    150,000
Motor grader, 125-HP                          RM                -              1          1        2      80,000    160,000
Rock crusher, 10 tph                          RM            1        1         1          1        4      65,000    260,000
Backhoe excavator, 0.5 cu m                  RM             -        -         -          1         1     30,000      30,000
Pay loader, 1.5 cu m                         RM             -        -         -          1        1      85,000      85,000
Road roller, tandem 8 - 10 ton                RM            -        -         -          2        2      42,000      84,000
Farm tractor                                 RM             -        -         1          1        2      12,000      24,000
Utility vehicles, diesel                      RM            3        4         7         29       43      10,000    430,000
Vibratory tandem roller                       RM            1        -         -          -         1     33,000      33,000
Water tank, trailer, 2.5 cu m                 RM            -        -         2          -         Z     15,000      30,000
Cargo truck                                   RM            -        -         -          I         i     Z5,000      25,000
Air compressor, 12.5 ctm                      RM            -        -                              i-    18,000      18,000
Repair shop equipment                         RM         (L.S.)   (L.S.)   (L.S.)    (L.S.)   (L.S.)   (L.S.)    400,000
Equipment/tools for maintenance teams         RM         (L.S.)   (L.S.)   (L.S.)    (L.S.)   (L.S.)   (L.S.)    250,000
Laboratory equipment                          RM            -        -         -       (L.S.)   (L.S.)   (L.S.)       12,000
Collection trucks, 8-10 cu m                  SWM/DR        7        1        10         15       33      45.000  1,485,000
Track type loader                             SWM           1        -         1          1         3     60,000    180,000
Skip hoist container vehicles                 SWM           3        3         z          I       10      45,000    450,000
Skip containers, 8 cu m                       SWM          25       25        20         20       90       1,200    108,000
Tapered containers, 50 liters                 SWM         120      120       120        120      480          25      12,000
Handcarts                                     SWM          20       20        20         20       80         120       9,600
Truck rehabilitation                          SWM           5        6         -          -       11      10,000    110,000
Equipment/tools for maintenance teams         SWM/DR    (L.S.)   (L.S.)   (L.S.)    (L.S.)   (L.S.)   (L.S.)    300,000
Sewer jetting and vacuum vehicles             SAN           2        2         -          -        4    130,000    520,000
Miscellaneous equipment                       SAN/DR    (L.S.)   (L.S.)   (L.S.)    (L.S.)   (L.S.)   (L.S.)    120,000
Subtotal                                                                                                  5,816,600
Spare parts and components (17.5%)                                                                                 1,016,700
Total                                                                                                     6,833,300
/a  RM = road maintenane equipment;  SWM = equipment for solid wastes management;  DR = equipment for maintenance
for drainage works; SAN = sanitation equipment; RM/DR = includes equipment for joint use in the two sectors.



PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shelter Co=ponent - ProJect Summary
Size of Component
City:                    Iloilo                                      Bacolod                                   Cagayan de Oro                                    Davao                          Totals 4 cities
Cross                                         Gross                                       Gross                                        Gross                        Gross
No. of   area    Popula-                       No. of  area   Popula-                       No. of  area    Popula-                     No. of  area    Popula-  No. of  area    Popula-
Component                Site            plots    (ha)       tion    Site               plots   (ha)       tion         Site        plots    (ha)      tion         Site        plots    (ha)       tion     plots    (ha)       tion
Sites aad Services   Mandurriao    1,857           41.9    14,900  Villamonte           1,680    29.7    13,400  Kauswagan            855      8.7     6,900  Agdao                700     6.6      6,000
Banago I           1,032    18.2      8,300
New Market           157      1.5     1,300                                               Other /a         3,300    43.0    27,500
Total                             1,857      41.9    14,900                       2,869    49.4   23,000                         855     8.7      6,9,000,00 49.6    33,500   9,581    149.6  78,300
Slum Upgrading          Bo. Obrero    1,981/b   30.5    13,800  Yulo Park                 430      4.1     4,700  Carmen &             700     6.5     7,000  Piapi II           1,380    14.6    11,100
Foreshore      1,300       7.6      7,800  Malalusan             249      1.7     2,400  others /a
New Market           192      1.2     1,800
Bgy I + others       650      7.0     6,500
/a
Total                             3,281      36.1    21,600    1-521    14.0    15,400                                           700     6.5      7,000                    1,380    14.6    11,100    6,882        73.2   55,100
Commercial/              Mandurriao        150      5.5      N.A.   Villamonte             120     4.5     N.A.   Kauswagan            100     3.0              Agdao /d           152      4.6
Industrial Plots                                                  Banago T               63     2.0
Total                                150       5.5     N.A.                          183     6.5     N.A.                        100     3.0                                 152      4.6                 585/c  19.6    N.A.
/a Sites to be Identified.
/b 700 infill Pilots to be located in existing built areas.
/c Based on average plot size of 300 sq m.
/d Site to be extended from 1.8 ha to 6.8 ha to realize full potential for cross subsidy for City Shelter program.
1(fi13



PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shelter Component - Project Summary
Planning and Design Standards - Sites and Services
Iloilo                         Bacolod                        Cagayan de Oro                 Davao
Access
Primary vehicular   <-----------------------------------10 m - 12 m (min) ROW within 200 m of plot.---------------------------------->
access
Secondary vehicular Within 50 m of plot.  8 m - 12 m ROW, 4 m DBST with 2 m   10 m ROW with 5M SBST pavement and 1.5 m crushed rock
access             shoulders and 8 m concrete with 2 m crushed rock shoul-   shoulders.
ders respectively
Pedestrian access   <--- All plots - 2 m to 6 m footpaths SBST surface. --->  <--- To all plots, 3 m footpaths with slab paving. ---->
Water                  <-------------------------------------- Individual water supply connection. ------------------------------------->
<-------------------------------------155 liters/cap/day demand. --------------------------------------------->
<------------------------------------ Block metering except for larger plots. ---------------------------------->
<------------------------------ Flexible service connections from tertiary mains. ------------------------------->
<-------------------------------------- Fire protection to LWUA standards. ------------------------------------->
Sanitary facilities    Sanitary core unit in each plot with sewer connection.   Pit privy with timber frame, concrete slab with porce-
lain squatting pans.  P 600/plot.
<- UPVC wastewater sewers for centralized treatment. --->
Waste stabilization pond treatment prior to discharge
into stream; effluent quality BOD5 < 20 mg/I.  Coliform < 5,000/100 ml.
Drainage               <--------------------------- Lined open storm water drains along all roads and paths. --------------------------->
Garbage disposal       <------- Regular solid wastes collections - communal containers based on improvements to City Services. --------->
Street lighting        <--- Security lighting along all streets and paths. ----> <------ 1 security light per purok /b P 10/plot. ------>
Electricity            <------------------------------ Electricity connection to each plot.  0.8 kW/plot. ------------------------------>
Community facilities  Mandurriao; high school,        Villamonte; 3 Elem. schools  Land areas reserved for BDCN centers and plaza areas.
two elementary schools and   and 1 BDCN center.  Banago   1 BDCN center for Kauswagan  1 BDCN center each for
1 BDCN /a center; land         I; 2 Elem. schools and 1       site.                          Agdao and Panacan sites.
areas reserved for bus &       BDCN Center.  Land areas
jeepney terminal, daily        reserved for community
and weekly market, gasoline facilities for each of 3
station, church, community   Barangays for Villamonte
center, bank, public           and 2 Barangays for Banago
parking areas, and Central   I.
Plaza.
No community facilities
provided for new market
site.
/a  Barangay, Day Care and Nutrition Center.
/b  Small community grouping of about 100 households.



PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shelter Component - Project Sniamary
Planning and Design Standards - Slns UpErading
Average                                                                                                     Street                               nonnity
plt size      Access            Drainage        Water supply        Sanitation         Electricity         lighting          Open spaces         facilities           Other           Land tenure/c
(.2)
Iloilo
Bn. Obrero            107    Paved emergency  Open lined           Individual water Cosnal toilets Individual               Security light-  Existing             Existing           Seawall repair           Yea
acce.s to within drains.             connection to      1 per 100 plots  service connec-  ing.                                                         sad fitting.
50 a, 2    g-ravel                   each plot./a       plu  individual  tions.
pedestrian        Open ditches                          pit latrines/                                                                                  Garbage disposal
access to each   for plot                               septic tanks                                                                                   as part of city-
plot.             drainage.                             where appro-                                                                                   wide  improve
priate.                                                                                       meats.
Foreshore              55    6 r ROW, paved   Open lined           Individual water Conmunal toilets Individual             Security lignt-  Dedensification   ExR9ting              Garbage disposal          Yes
access to          drains.           connection to      I per 100 plots. service connec-  ing.                   by clearing                           as part of city-
consmunal toilet                     each plt./a                          tions.                                existing ROW                          wide improve-
blocks.                                                                                                          for access roads                      ments.
and footpatbs
2 a paved font-                                                                                                  and sites for
paths.                                                                                                           cosnunal toilet
blocks.
I-2 n gravel
footpaths to
individual
plots.
Bacolod
Yulo Park              66    Main paved          Site drainage/b  Individual water Cossnunal toilets Individual             Security light-  Existing plus    Exi9ting.              Garbage disposal          Yes
access road off  lined open          connection.        per 100 plots    service  connec-  ifg on rosin          ROW for roads                         as part on
site along        channels.                             plus individual  tions.               roads and foot-  and footpatbs                           city-wide
drainage canal.                                         compost/pit                           paths.             and co-smunal                         improvement.
Plot drainage                        latrines where                                           toilets.
Paved key foot-  open ditches.                          appropriate.
paths 1-2 a
wide, gravel
footpaths to in-
dividual plots.
Malal.s.n              48    4-6 m p-ved        Pipe drains and  Individual water Communal               <---------------------------------------- As for Yulo Park -----------------------------___ --- --_>
vehicular accens  lined open         connection.        toilets I per
c-ads.             channels along                       100 plots.
t ortpaths.
Main paved foot-
paths 1-2 n.      Open ditches
for plot
Individual plot  drainage.
access gravel
footpaths 1-2
New Market             42    Main acceos /d   <--------- --------/-------------------------------------------------- As for Yule Park --------------------------------------_____________________>
road along
d rainage
channel.
oarangay I and                <--------                                                       Siilar upgrading standards to suit specific sites --------------------------------------------------------->
others
Cagayan de Drn
Carmen and others             <-------------------                                             Similar upgrading standards to soit specific sites                   ------------------------------------                >
Davo
Piapi II                      <------------------------------------- Similar upgrading standards as for contiguous Piapi I being developed under Second Urban Project ------------------------------->
/a  Contingent on City Water District providing off site water mains us schedule under Innediate Action Program.
7b  Main aite drainage and lAndfill included in drainage component.
7i  Each plot provided with individual access in order to facilitate land tenure.
/d  Cost to be shared with sites and services.



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shelter Component - Project Summary
Sites and Services - Detailed Cost Estimates
(P million) /a
Davao
City:   Iloilo                  Bacolod                Cagayan de Oro
Activity                     Site: Mandurriao  Villamonte  Banago I  New Market   Kauswagan /f   Agdao    Others /g
.and
Land acquisition                     4.18         2./0        3.38    City-owned    City-owned        1.92    12.87
Subtotal                      4.18        2.70        3.38        -                           1.92    12.87
Dffsite Infrastructure
Main drainage                        2.10         0.06        -          -               -           0./5
Water main                           -            -           2.50        0.06           -            -     }  -
Access road                          -            0.27        -           -              -           -         -
Subtotal                      2.10        0.33        2.50        0.06           -            0.75
Dnsite Infrastructure
Site preparation                     1.30         0.49        0.2/        0.01
Drainage                             0.60         1.21        0./2        0.03
Roads and footpaths                  3.50         4.40        3.02        0.12         }
Water reticulation                   2.22         2.20        1.62        0.22                     }
Sewage reticulation                  2.18         3.44        2.30       0.25
Sewage treatment                     1.37         3           2           0
Electricity and street
lighting                           1.25         1.24        1.04       0.13         } 6.00      }  7.21  } 31.00
}           I        I
Subtotal                     12.42       12.98        8.97        0.76
Dnplot Development
Service connections                }                86        2 24       0.32
Sanitary facilities                } 3.00         3           2           0.32
Survey and monumenting             }              0.50        0.34       0.04
Subtotal                     3.00         4.36        2.58        0.36           6.00      }
Dpen Areas /b                                                                                       }
Plaza, parks, etc.                   1.96         2.59        1.64       -               0.20     }
Subtotal                      1.91        2.59        1.64        -              0.20      }  7.21  } 31.00
Community Facilities /c
Elementary schools T                 1.81         4.80        3.22       -              -            -         -
High schools                         0.92         -           -           -              -            _
BDCN centers /e                      0.27         0.27        0.27        -              0.22        0.28      0.54
Subtotal                      3.00        5.07        3.49        -              0.22         0.28      0.54
Total                        26.61       28.03       22.56        1.18           6.42        10.16    44.41
/a  April 1983 prices including design, supervision and physical contingencies.
lb  Site preparation cost only included.
/c  Schools and Barangay, Day Care and Nutrition (BDCN) Centers included as Community Facilities.  Costs include
site preparation.
/d  School buildings costed at P 1,200/sq m, MPWH standard prefabs.
/e  Barangay, Day Care and Nutrition centers, I per site, building costed at P 1,200/sq m, MPWH Standard prefabs.
7T  To be considered together with Kauswagan Stage I, being developed under Second Urban Project, for allocation oF
infrastructure costs to beneficiaries.
/g  Cost estimates based on preliminary engineering for 2,356 plots at Agdao and Panacan.



- 64 -                                      ANNEX 7
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shelter Component - Project Summary
Slum Upgrading - Detailed Cost Estimates
(P million) /a
Cagayan
Iloilo                   Bacolod                 de Oro    Davao
City:   Bo.   Fore-  Yulo  Mala-   New       Barangay 1  Carmen &   Piapi
Activity                  Site: Obrero  shore  Park  lusan  Market  & others /d  others /d  II /e
Land
Land acquisition                Public 0.50   0.46  0.85    0.13         1.50        2.00     2.00
Filling and reclamation          2.32   - /b   -      -       -          -           -        7.00
Subtotal                 2.32   0.50   0.46  0.85    0.13        1.50        2.00      9.00
Offsite Infrastructure
Main drainage                    -      -      - lb  -        -
Water main                       -      -      -      -       -        y           }
Access road                      -      -      - /b  -        -        }           }       }
Sea walls                        2.43   -      -      -       -        }           }       }
Subtotal                 2.43   -       -     -        -       }           }        }
Onsite Development                                                       }           }       }
Site preparation                -       -      0.40  0.07    0.03    }             J
Drainage                         1.91   0.64   0.57  0.50    0.14    J             J       J
Roads and footpaths              4.56   1.68   1.31  0.43    0.24    }             }       }
Water reticulation               2.05   1.79   0.53  0.19    0.23    }             }       }
Sewage reticulation             -       -      -      -       -        }           }       }
Sewage treatment                -       -      -      -       -        } 4.15     } 5.52  } 15.08
Communal toilets /c              1.56   2.85   1.17  0.44    0.28    }            }        }
Electricity and street                                                 }           }       }
lighting                      0.65   0.38   0.12  0.06    0.03    }                      J
Subtotal                10.73   7.34   4.10  1.69    0.96    }             }        }
Onplot Development                                                       }           }       }
Service connections             -       -      -      -       -        }          }        }
Sanitary facilities             0.34   -       -      -       -        }           }       }
Survey and monumenting          0.30   0.30   0.16  0.09    0.06    1             J
Reblocking                      -       0.15   0.06  0.05    0.03    J             J       J
Subtotal                 0.64   0.45   0.22  0.14    0.09        4.15        5.52    15.08
Total                  16.12   8.29   4.78  2.68    1.18        5.65        7.52    24.08
/a  Based on April 1983 prices including design, supervision and physical contingencies.
/b  Included under drainage component.
7T  Includes sewers and septic tanks.
/d  Similar upgrading standards to be adopted as for Bacolod and Iloilo.
e Similar upgrading standards to be adopted as for contiguous Piapi I being developed under



- 65 -
ANNEX 7
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shelter Component - Project Summary
Industrial/Commercial Plots - Detailed Costs Estimates
(P million)/a
City:   Iloilo         Bacolod          Cagayan      Davao
Villa-                 de Oro
Activity            Site: Mandurriao  monte   Banago /b Kauswagan /c Agdao /d
Land
Land acquisition            0.44      0.55     0.51          0.60        1.62
Filling and reclamation    -          -        -             -           -
Subtotal            0.44       0.55     0.51         0.60         1.62
Offsite infrastructure
Main drainage               -         0.05  }            }           }
Water main                  -         -     3            }           }
Access road                 -         0.09  }            }           }
Subtotal            -          0.14  }           J
On-site infrastructure                        }            }           }
Site preparation           0.18       0.25  1
Drainage                    0.56      0.66  } 2.88       }   5.81    }   7.53
Roads and footpaths         3.08      2.46  }            }           }
Water reticulation          1.28      0.87  }            }           }
Sewage reticulation        0.46   }  1.57
Sewage treatment           0.43   }         J            1           1
Electricity supply and                      I            I           I
street lighting          0.34       0.43  }            }           1
Subtotal            6.33       6.24  }           }            1
On-plot development                           }            }           }
Survey and monumenting     0.03       0.10  1            1           1
Subtotal            0.03       0.10     2.88         5.81        11.04
Total               6.80       7.03     3.39          6.41        9.15
/a  Based on April 1983 prices including design, supervision and physical con-
tingencies.
/b 2 ha out of 3.43 ha estate to be developed as Phase I.
/c 3 ha estate to be developed without telecommunication facilities and work-
shop buildings, based on service standards adopted for Iloilo and Bacolod
and experience from Macabalan.
/d 4.6 ha estate, same as /c above.



II I].   PP II N      S
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consulting Services, Technical Assistance and Training
(Estimated at April 1983 prices) /a
(Rate $1 = P 9.0)
Local                                         Foreign                                             Total
Consultants        Other       Total          Consultants           Other         Total          Consultants           Other         Total
Entity      Man-        Pesos    Pesos        S$ '000   Man-        US$  000    UJS$  000       US$  000   Man-        US$  000    US$  000    US$ -000
reponsible   months       '000       '000     Equivalent  months  equivalent  equivalent  equivalent  months  equivalent  equivalent  equivalent
T. Advisory Services for Project
Implementation /b
(a) City/MPWH Components                  NEDA/MPWII          -         -                      -       116      1,434.0            -        1,434.0        116      1,434.0           -          1,434.0
Shelter Components                    NIIA               -          -         -            -       104      1,286.0            -        1,286.0        104     1,286.0           -          1,286.0
Subtotal I                                                                              -        220      2,720.0           -         2,720.0        220    2,720.0           _           2,720.0
II. Institutional Strengthening
and Training
(b) Municipal Finance
(i) Implementing & monitoring
municipal financial
reforms                        MOF                -          -         -            -        12         148.0           -          148.0         12        148.0           -            148.0
(ii) Introduction of records
managenment                    MOF
a. Technical assistance                                10       279.0        -           31.0      20        247.0            -          247.0         30       278.0           -            278.0
b. Computer equip. & software                                     -          -           -          -          -           754.0         754.0          -          -          754.0          754.0
(c) Mutnicipal Training                   MLG
(i) Technical assistance                                42   1,287.0          -         143.0       20        247.0           -           247.0         62       390.0           -            390.0
(ii) Capital investment                                   -        -         540.0         60.0       -           -             -            -            -          -            60.0           60.0
(iii) Course development & training                        -         -      1,890.0        210.0       -           -             -             -           -          -           210.0          210.0
(iv) Student allowances                                   -        -       3,060.0       340.0        -           -             -             -           -          -          340.0           340.0
Subtotal II                                         52    1,566.0  5,490.0          784.0      52         642.0         754.0      1,396.0         104       816.0       1,364.0        2,180.0
IlI. Project Preparation and Related Studies
(   Detailed engineering for
Secondary Cities Project           MPWH              265    8,100.0         -         900.0       48        600.0           -           600.0        313     1,500.0           -          1,500.0
(e) Metro Manila Urban Transporta-
tion Stuldy                        MOTC/MPW8         235    7,200.0         -         800.0       97      1,200.0           -         1,200.0        332     2,000.0           -          2,000.0
(f) Advisory services in National
Transportation Planning            MOTC                -            -       -            -        81      1,000.0           -         1,000.0         81     1,000.0           -          1,000.0
(g) Future project identification/
preparation
(i) National Industrial Estates
Stuidy                         NEDA              20        630.0       -           70.0      35         430.0           -          430.0          55       500.0           -            500.0
(ii) IJrban/Regional Study             NEDA              26        720.0       -           80.0      44         520.0           -           525.0        70        600.0           -            600.0
(iii) Future project preparation    NEDA                 160    4,950.0         -          550.0      50         650.0           -           650.0       210      1,200.0           -          1,200.0
Subtotal tii                                         706   21,600.0         -       2,400.0    355        4,400.0           -         4,400.0      1,061     6,3U)0 0          --         6,800.0
GRAND TOTAL                                          758   23,166.0  5,490.0        3,184.0    627        7,762.0         754.0       8,516.0      1,385    10,336.0       1,364.0       11,700.0
GRAND TOTAL PESOS ( 000)                                                                                                                                                                105,300.0
/a  Cturrent costs:  with price contingencies about 18.7% additional.
7i  Net of Advisory Services financed under the Urban Engineering Loan, approximately $2.26 million equivalent.
/c  Net of Municipal Training financed under Urban Engineering Loan, approximately $50,000 equivalent.                                                                                                            X



ANNEX 8
- 67 -                         Page 2
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consulting Services, Technical Assistance and Training
(A) Advisory Services for Project Implementation
Net Cost:/l  $2,720,000
Agencies:    National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA)
Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH)
National Housing Authority (NHA)
Objectives:  To provide assistance in project implementatIon and moni-
toring, both in the central project office (RCDPO) and in
the city project offices (CPOs), for (a) municipal infra-
structure and municipal enterprises (NEDA/MPWH) and
(b) shelter components (NHA).
Activities/  The advisors will (a) assist project managers in pro-
Output:    curement, construction management, and supervision,
(b) assist in strengthening operations and maintenance
of selected components, and (c) provide specialized
technical assistance on detailed design.
Staffing:    The proposed advisory assistance (in man-months) by
agency by year is shown in the table below:
Year
Agency      1983     1984      1985     1986      Total
NEDA/MPWH   44        36        24       12        116
NIIA         40       40        24        -        104
Timetable:   NEDA/MPWH advisors began their assignments during the
second quarter 1982 and NHA advisors started during the
fourth quarter of 1982 utilizing funding under the Urban
Engineering Loan. Extended Terms of Reference will be based
on modifications to existing Terms of Reference for
contracts being executed under the Urban Engineering Loan.
/1 Net of contingencies, and of financing provided under the Urban Engineer-
ing Loan, about $2.26 million.



ANNEX 8
- 68 -                          Page 3
(Bi) Monitoring Municipal Financial Performance
Net Cost:/l  $148,000
Agency:       Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Objectives:  (a) To monitor revenue performance and the implementation
of accounting and financial systems of project cities
principally to assure adequate cash flow during the project
period.
Activities/ (a) Quarterly monitoring of net municipal revenues and
Outputs:   (b) periodic reviews of municipal accounting practices.
Organization/The work will be conducted by MOF staff with 12 man-
Staffing:  months of periodic assistance by foreign consultants
over the life of the project.
Timetable:   Terms of Reference for the consultants were completed
prior to negotiations. Consultants will be utilized
on a periodic basis thereafter.
(Bii) Municipal Records Management
Net Cost:/l $1,032,000
Agency:     Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Background and Objectives: The objective of this program is to improve
the access to; processing and storage of; and security for
financial and accounting records of local governments in
the Philippines. At present, financial records are kept
manually. As a result, recording, up-dating and processing
is slow and excessively cumbersome. No attempt is made to
link records to verify, for example, that property taxes
are up to date for businesses applying annually for required
permits. Moreover, the business tax, a major revenue
source for local governments in the Philippines, is based
on declarations of gross receipts by business owners and
because of the limited processing time available, audit of
these declarations on a manual basis is perfunctory. It is
also difficult and expensive to duplicate these records,
and their integrity and security are therefore at risk.
/1 Net of contingencies.



-  69                            ANNEX 8
Page 4
Activities!  The project will finance procurement of equipment and
Outputs:   system software along with supporting technical assis-
tance. The scope of the project will be refined by a
reconnaisance study of detailed requirements. The program
to be initiated in the four project cities together with
up to three additional cities will provide a representative
sample of differing records management requirements of local
governments. In addition, complementary equipment is
proposed to be installed in selected regional offices of MOF
in order to strengthen the working relationship between MOF
and local governments and to assist MOF in its
responsibilities for montioring local fiscal management
performance. Based on the experience of this pilot effort,
the intention is to expand use of these systems throughout
the country to meet the particular needs of individual local
governments.
Organization/Staffing: The Ministry of Finance staff will administer
the project with the assistance of approximately 20 man-
months of foreign and 9 man-months of local consultant
assistance.
Timing:       The reconnaissance study will commence during the second
quarter of 1983 utilizing funds from the Urban Engineering
Loan. The study, to be completed during the fourth quarter,
will include equipment specifications and terms-of-refer-
ence for followup technical assistance. Procurement of
records mangement equipment, software, and supporting
technical assistance will commence during the first
quarter of 1984; technical assistance for software
development and on line systems will be provided on a
short-term basis as needed throughout the project period.
Cost Recovery: The project cities will recover all equipment and
software costs; technical assistance will be provided as
a government grant.
(C) Municipal Training Program
Net Cost:/l $1,000,000
Agency:      Ministry of Local Government (MLG)
Background/Objectives: Past training programs for municipal officials
have had one or more of the following deficiencies: (a)
not sufficiently specific to be directly applicable; (b)
/1 Net of contingencies, and of financing provided under the Urban Engineer-
ing Loan.



ANNEX 8
-70  -                          ____
Page 5
not sufficiently focussed on municipal needs; (c) not of
high quality in content or in instruction; and (d) not
sustained over a sufficiently lengthy period or on a large
enough scale to have a significant impact. Part of the
problem is the high degree of training fragmentation among
many agencies and a lack of sufficient or stable trainIng
budgets. Beyond correcting these deficiencies, the
primary objectives of the proposed municipal training
program are to strengthen local government capabilities in
(a) the planning and managing of developmernt projects;
and (b) the management of municipal services. The
intent is to start the program in the project cities,
as well as in a few other selected cities, and then
gradually to expand to a nationwide program. This
will require a sustained effort continuing over a
period of time extending well beyond t1he RCDP project
implementation period.
Activities/Outputs: The training will consist of off-the-job training
in the form of short courses for supervisory personnel, and
highly selective on-the-job follow-up training for both
supervisors and their staff. While pilot courses will
begin in Manila, the full training effort will be
conducted in two additional centers located in
Mindanao and the Visayas to reduce travel and subsistence
costs. As the program expands further centers may be
utilized. Training modules will initially include (a)
municipal finance; (b) project implementation management;
(c) municipal enterprise management; and (d) a project
orientation seminar. The course selection will broaden
as the program develops.
Organization/Staffing: The training program will be administered by a
separate training institute attached to the MLG governed
by a Board of Directors chaired by a MLG representative.
Administrative Staff will be recruited from government
agencies and from academic centers. Approximately 20 man-
months of foreign consultant and 42 man-months of local
consultant assistance will be used in establishing and
developing the program.
Timetable:   Consultant assistance in definirng the training program
more precisely will commence during the third cuarter of
1983. A refined training program prospectus is expected
to be ready by the end of 1983. Pilot training for
project city staff will commence during the first quarter
of 1984. Full training operations are expected to begin
during the third quarter of 1984 and co--#tinue through the
life of the project (and beyond).



- 71 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 6
Financing and Cost Recovery: The project will finance 100% of technical
assistance and course attendance costs (travel, lodging,
materials) and part of furniture and equipment costs
(see para. 5.17). Administrative costs (see preliminary
cost estimate table below) will not be financed by the
project. Part of the training costs will be recovered
from the project cities.
PRELIMINARY SUMMARY OF PROPOSED TRAINING COSTS (P-000)
Year                              Project
Item                      1983   1984   1985   1986   Total        Total  financing
(P)     ($000)   (%)
Technical Assistance
Foreign                  741    741    741        -   2,223    (247.0)    100
Local                    320    320    320    327   1,287    (143.0)    100
Capital Investment
Office equipment           -    200      43       -     243      (27.0)      50
Training aids              -    100      98       -     198      (22.0)      50
Furniture                  -     60      39       -      99      (11.0)      50
Land and buildings         -      -       -       -       -
Course Development
& Research               400    400    180    180   1,160    (128.9)    100
Other Direct Training
Cost /a                    -    330    220    220       730      (81.1)    100
Student Allowance Costs
Board and lodging          -    710  1,065  1,065   2,840    (315.6)    100
Travel expenses            -     55      82      83     220      (24.4)    100
Subtotal            1,461  2,916  2,768  1,855   9,000  (1,000.0)
Administration /b          550  1,000  1,000  1,000   3,550    (394.4)          0
Total               2,011  3,916  3,768  2,855  12,550  (1,394.4)
/a  Supplies and other materials.
/b Not included in project cost estimate



- 72 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 7
(D) Detailed Engineering and Advisory Services - Secondary Cities Project
Net Cost:/l  $1,500,000
Agency:      Ministry of Public Works and Highways
Objectives:  Feasibility stuides including preliminary engineering is
in good progress, but no funding is available for detailed
engineering. It is estimated that about $1,500,000 will be
needed to complete sufficient engineering for the first year
implementation program.
Activities/  Final detailed engineering drawings, cost estimates and
Outputs:   tender documents will be prepared with the assistance of
about 210 man-months of local consultant assistance and
24 man-months of foreign assistance.
Timetable:   Terms of Reference will be prepared as an output of
feasibility studies expected to be completed by the second
quarter 1983, with detailed engineering commencing during
the third quarter 1983 and ending during the third
quarter of 1985.
(E) Metro Manila Urban Transportation Strategy Study
Net Cost:    $2,000,000 /1
Agency:      Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MOTC)
Objectives:  (a) To update the strategic transportation investment plan
for Metro Manila over 5, 10, and 20 year time frames; (b)
to refine policies for public transport; and (c) to
prepare short-term transport investment packages suitable
for domestic and international financing.
Activities/Outputs: (a) A long range (20-year horizon) planning
strategy will be developed (policies and major invest-
ments); (b) a medium-term (5-10 year) investment and
policy action program will be identified; (c) a high
priority (1-5 year) investment program will be proposed;
and (d) feasibility studies and detailed engineering for
specific investment packages will be undertaken.
/1 Net of contingencies.



ANNEX 8
- 73 -                            Page 8
Organization/Staffing:  Activities (a)-(c) above will be the respon-
sibility of a joint MOTC/MPWH team with MOTC in the lead
assisted by a small consultant team; feasibility studies
and detailed engineering (d above) would be divided along
functional lines: MOTC for public transportation; MPWH
for streets and highways. Total estimated input is 97
foreign and 235 local man-months.
Timetable:   Terms of Reference for consultant assistance in completing
steps (a)-(c) above have been prepared; MOTC has begun
the study with its own staff resources. Consultant assis-
tance began during the fourth quarter of 3982 (financed
under Loan 1661-PH), is expected to be completed by the
end of the second quarter of 1983. Feasibility studies
(part "d" above) and detailed engineering should commence
during the third quarter of 1983 and will be completed
during the third quarter of 1984.
(F) Advisory Services in National Transportation Planning
Net Cost:    $1,000,000 /1
Agency:       Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MOTC)
Background/Objectives: The National Transportation Planning Project,
a joint undertaking of NEDA and MOTC, and financed by the
Bank under the Rural Roads Improvement Project, (Loan
1860-PH), has recently completed a study recommending a
five-year (1983-87) program of investments for the trans-
iprt sector. The study has also provided recommendations
for improvements in regulatory, administrative and
operational matters. The objectives of the proposed
technical assistance are to assist MOTC in follow-up work
to (a) refine and improve specific investment projects
that will emerge from further engineering and feasibility
studies, (b) prepare and assist in the implementation of
a phased program of regulatory and other changes, and (c)
train MOTC staff to undertake these tasks on a continuing
basis.
Activities/Outputs: Periodic reports reviewing priority investment
proposals will be prepared for the Minister.
/1 Net of contingencies.



ANNEX 8
- 74 -                          Page 9
Organization/Staff: Full responsibility for transport planning will be
transferred to MOTC. MOTC staff will be assisted by two
full-time foreign consultants plus periodic inputs from
specialists for a total of 81 man-months. Periodic
reports on their work will be agreed upon prior to hiring
the consultants.
Timetable: Technical assistance would be provided over a two-year
period from the third quarter of 1983 through the third
quarter of 1985.
(Gi) Urban/Regional Development and Urban Administration Strategy
Net Cost:  $600,000 /1
Agency:    National Economic and Development Authority 1NEDA).
Objectives:  To sharpen national policies for regional economic deve-
lopment in a period of budget constraints and provide
a framework for national line agencies and regional offi-
ces to develop their sectoral programs and projects in
regional and urban infrastructure. To identify and prepare
in more detail policies and priority public investments in
one or two selected regions and their towns as a basis for
project preparation. To review and advise changes to the
administrative and financial relations between central and
local government, and propose improvements in
administration, financial management and training in cities
and municipalities.
Activities/Outputs: (a) Review the demographic and economic
characteristics, income levels, public investments and
urban profiles in the 13 economic regions; (b) in the
light of (a) and of national economic trends, effect
of key sectoral policies in industry and agriculture,
evaluation of earlier regional projects, of economic
characteristics and links among urban centers, implement-
ation capabilities, indicate expected regional growth and
decline and population projections for regions and
regional centers. Under specific policy assumptions,
define appropriate development thrust for each region
and outline implications on national budget; (c) select
/1 Net of contingencies.



- 75 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 10
one or two regions to develop in more detail, the spatial
linkages of centers within the region, the scope and
location of key public investments needed for economic
growth, identifying their outline costs and distribution
of benefits, timing and coordination, and any supporting
policy measures; (d) review existing policies, operations
and studies on central-local government relations with
regard to local administration of urban services and
finance, identifying weaknesses with respect to planning
implementation and maintenance of basic municipal infra-
structure, in local government revenue generation and
budgeting, and in organization and staffing; and (e)
recommend improvements in policy, management, administration
and finance required at both central and local government
levels, and the scope and nature of training.
Organization/Staffing: The study will be under direction of NEDA, who
will also provide staff for the regional development aspect
assisted by foreign and local consultants. The local
administration aspect will be conducted by the Ministries
of Local Government and Finance assisted by consultants.
Total consultant input of about 70 man-months of which
44 by foreign consultants and 26 by local consultants.
Timing:    Review of literature by NEDA commenced and Terms of Reference
for the study completed by December 1982. The study is
expected to take 19 months commencing during the third
quarter of 1983.
(Gii)  National Industrial Estates Investment Strategy Study
Net Cost:  $500,000 /1
Agency:    NEDA/MOTI
Objective: To prepare a nationwide investment strategy for export
processing zones and industrial estates. This work would
build upon an ongoing UNDP funded industrial estates study
being administered by the Bank.
Activities/
outputs: (a) a nationwide industrial estate investment plan;
(b) a sector specific institutional and organizational
review; and
(c) feasibility studies for a proposed project.
/1 Net of contingencies.



- 76 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 11
Organization/Staffing: Total estimated consultant assistance is 35
foreign and 20 local man-months.
Timetable:   During the third quarter of 1983 NEDA/MOTI will prepare
Terms of Reference for agreement with the Bank. These TOR
will take into account outputs from a UNDP funded study
scheduled for completion during the second quarter of 1983.
(Giii) Future Project Preparation
Net Cost:    $1,200,000 /1
Agency:      NEDA
Objective:   Based upon findings of studies Gi and Gii described above,
to assist NEDA in the preparation of one or more additional
projects.
Activities/  Identification and feasibility study(ies) for a future
Outputs:    project(s).
Organization/Staffing: Total estimated consultant assistance is
50 foreign and 160 local consultant man-months.
Timetable:   Terms of-reference will be prepared as outputs from Gi and
Gii studies which are expected to be completed during the
second quarter of 1984.
/1 Net of contingencies.



PEIILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NHA Comparative Income Statement Analysis 1979-82
(Pesos mln.)
1980  % of       1981  % of   % in-          1982  % of   % in-
Actual total    Actual total  crease          Est.  total  crease
Revenues
Rents, fees and charges/a                   19.6   42         22.7   37      16          23.2   43        2
Interest                                    26.2   56         36.7   61      40          37.4   56        2
Miscellaneous income                         0.8    2          1.4    2      75            5.4    1    285
Total                                    46.6  100        60.8  100       30          66.0  100        8
Expenditures
Operations                                  32.2   75         39.6   72      23          49.0   47       23
Interest and Bank charges/b                  1.0    2          5.9   11    490           12.1   25    105
Depreciation                                 9.5   23          9.3   17      (2)         10.0   28        7
Total Expenditures                      42.7  100         54.8  100       28          71.1  100      29
Net Income                                3.9              6.0                        (5.1)
Income tax                                     1.1               0.8
Net Income After Tax                      2.8              5.2                        (5.1)
Net Income Before Interest                3.8             11.0                         7.0
Total assets                               1,518.1           1,943.3                    2,585.1
Rate of return before interest                0.25%             0.56%                       0.27%
/a  Includes profits realized from collection of installment contracts.
7h  Includes interest on foreign loans, local lines of credit and bonds.



- 78 -                               ANNEX 9
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NHA Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
(P million)
FY1982 (est.)
Sources
Opening cash balance                             73.0
Net operating revenues                           (5.1)
Equity contribution                             432.6
Capital contributions /a                         27.0
Borrowings /b                                   302.0
Depreciation                                     10.0
Others                                          232.9
Total Sources                                         1,072.4
Applications
Debt service (loan repayment)                    11.7
Loan Advances
Local Government                                10.5
Other developers                                90.4
Capital outlays                                 660.0
Others (incl. sinking fund)                      85.0
Total Applications                                      857.6
Closing Cash Balance                                         214.8
/a  Capital subsidies on special projects.
/b Includes foreign borrowings (IBRD and German KFW4) and bonds issuE
to domestic capital market and utilization of lines of credit wi,
Land Bank of Philippines.



ANNEX 9
- 79 -                                          Table 3
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NHA Comparative Balance Sheet Analysis 1980-82
(Pesos mln.)
1980   % of       1981   % ot   % in-       19Z52   % of   % in-
Actual  total    Actual  total  crease    Est.   total  crease
Current assets
Cash                               108.6      7       73.0      4    (33)      214.8      8    194
Temporary investments
& Receivables                  256.6    17        188.9    10    (26)       191.0      8       1
Total Current Assets           362.2    24        261.9    14    (28)       405.8    16       55
Investments
Project development A/C /a         704.6    47    1,126.0    58        60    1,580.0    61       40
Completed Property held for
rent or sale /b                 185.7    12        153.4      8    (17)      205.6      8      34
Others /c                          156.0    10       209.3    10       34      211.0      8       1
Subtotal                     1,046.3    69    1,488.7    76        42    1,996.6    77        34
Property and Equipment/b              43.9      3       42.2      2      (4)       32.2      1    (24)
Other Assets                          65.6      4      150.5      8    129        150.5      6      0
TOTAL ASSETS                 1,518.0   100    1,943.3   100        28    2,585.1   100        33
Current liabilities                  137.4      9      151.8      8      10       i51.8      6      -
Long-term liabilities
(Public debts) /d                   94.5      6       170.9      9     81       358.2    14    110
Other liabilities /e                  49.8      3      106.8      5    114        106.8      4      -
Total Liabilities              281.7    18        429.5    22      52       616.8    24       44
Equity                               590.1    39       865.8    45       47    1,298.4    51       50
Capital contributions /f             425.2    28       418.6    22       (2)     445.6    17        6
Surpluses and Retained               221.0    15       229.4    11        4       224.3     8      (2)
Earnings
Total Government Equity    1,236.3    82    1,513.8    78          22    1,968.3    76        30
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY 1,518.0   100    1,943.3   100          28    2,585.1   100        33
Ratios
Debt/Equity                   4:17                z:7                      4:13
Current ratio                 2.64               1.73                      2.67
/a Under construction.
7-b Net of Accumulated depreciation.
7-r Includes interest bearing loans and trustee accounts.
/d  Includes foreign debt (IBRD and KFW-Germany) and domestic Bond issues.
/e Includes reserve for additional development costs.
/f Capital subsidies on special projects.



P HI LI PP I NE S
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Municipal Revenues and Expenditures: 1981
Iloilo City                     Bacolod City                Cagayan de Oro                     Davao City
1981        Annual %            1981        Annual %            1981        Annual %           1981         Annual %
% of   increase                 % of   increase                 % of   increase                % of   increase
Amount  total  since '78        Amount  total  since '78    Amount  total  since '78    Amount  total  since '78
(P mln)                       (P mln)                      (P mln)                       (P mln)
Balance, Beginning of Year               4,949                            1,618                          7,333                          29,329
Receipts/Revenue
Taxes
Real property                        8,199   21         28/a        11,347   23          16/a        4,978   13         30/a         9,952    12        16/a
Business                             8,099   21          8           9,375   19           8          7,293   18         11          17,333   20          6
Other /b                             1,630    4                      4,010    8                      2,533    6         18           3,778    5          -
Municipal enterprises /c               2,148     5         6            3,030    6         10          1,978    5         28           2,949    3          -
Government grants                     14,261   36         47           16,168   33         47         16,000   41         50          37,907   44         50
All other /d                           4,975   13                       5,494   11                     6,652   17          -          13,148   16          -
Total Receipts/Revenue          39,312              23           49,424              19         39,434               23         85,067              20
Total Available                 44,261                           51,042                         46,767                         114,396
Expenditures
Staff costs                           19,873   52         28          23,755   51          19         16,412   49         29          31,015   37         21
General operations & maintenance    5,527   14            16           10,088   22         20          6,401   19         20          21,213   25         17
Capital outlay for development
& maintenance                        6,994   18         90            5,091   11         29          2,684    8          -          14,673   17         43
Aid and contributions                  5,261   14          -              471     1         -             322     1        -          11,654   14          -
Debt service                             774    2          -              471     1         -          2,237    7          -           4,649    6          -
Other                                      17    -         -              136    -          -          5,542    16         -             650    -          -
Total Expenditures              38,446               27          46,696              16          33,598              21         83,854              20
Balance, End of year                     4,704                            1,851                          5,790                          30,542
Continuing Appropriations to
capital outlays                        1,111                            2,695                          7,379                          16,556
Ratios
Locally generated/total
revenues 1981 (1978)                61%(76%)                        64%(80%)                        55%(75%)                        52%(78%)
Locally generated revenues/
recurrent expenditures              76%(89%)                        76%(84%)                        70%(106%)                       64%(88%)
/a  Due to revaluation effective 1980.
/b  Includes advertising, and Cinema Taxes, Etc.
7T  Includes Public Markets, Slaughterhouses, Etc.
7   Includes Borrowings.
I-.4



- 81 -
PHALIPPINESNEX    10
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                              ----- __
BACOLOD CITY REVENUE PROJECTIONS                                               TABLE ZA
(PESOS 000'5)
-------ACTUALS--------    -EST-    -----------------------PROJECTIONS-------------------------
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1914       1985      196i       1987      198
IALANCE iT/IWD                   2590       1167        439      1618      151       7653      13771     21159      28222     34359      37742
A EXISTING OPERATIONS
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES          28176      34428     39900      42496     46819      53000      57000     61000      65000     71000      75000
CAPITAL OUTLAYS                  2520       6414       4563      6895       1377      1487       1606       1734      1873      2023       2185
SUB TOTAL                     30696     40902      44463     49391      48196      544817    58606      62734     66873      73023      77185
FINANCED BY:
LOCAL REVENUES                  23511      28366     30137      33256     35861      39288     42898      4511Z    49424       52951      56759
GOVT. GRANTS 11                  5062      11578     14505      16168      16536     17588      18168     18776      19415     21086      2179t
BORROWINGS 21                     700        230       1000
SUB TOTAL                     29273     40174      45642     49424      52398      56876     60266      63888     68839      74044     71549
ANNUAL SURPLUS                   -1423       -720       1179         33      4202      2389       1660       1154      1966       1021      1364
B PROJECT IMPACT
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 31                                                             0      1800       7240     13750      11010      2940          0
INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTEN-4                                                                 0       1400      3600       6300     10000      11008
ANCE EXPENDITURES
DEBT SERVICE                                                                   0          0       187       026       1767      4170       4594
SUB TOTAL                                                                    0      1800      8827      18176     20077      17110      15594
FINANCED BY.
BORROWINGS Si                                                                  0      1800       7240     13750      11010      2940          0
REVENUE REFORMS 6I                                                200       1600      3700       7100      9600      11600     10400      15401
MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISE
REVENUES  7I                                                                     29        215       335        738      1632        639
REFUSE 6 SANITATION rEES                                                                                    400        900        900       908
SUB TOTAL                                                       200      1600       5529     14555      24085     24248      19472     16939
PROJECT SURPLUS                       0          0         0       200       1600      3729       5728      5909       4171      2362       1345
OVERALL SURPLUS                  -1423       -720       1179       233       5802      6118       7380      7063       6137      3383       2709
BALANCE CD/FWD                    1167       439       1618      1851       7653     13771     21159      20222      34359     37742      40451
SOURCE. MISSION ESTIMATES.
RATIOS
LOCAL/TOTAL REVENUES                 0.80      0.71       0.66      0.67       0.69      0.71       0.73       0.74      0.76       0.76      0.77
LOCAL REVENUESIRECURRENT
EXPENDITURES       0.83       0.82       0.76      0.79       0.80      0.81       0.84      0.85       0.86      0.83       0.84
I/ ASSUMED TO INCREASE AT ABOUT 5% P.A. FROM 1982.
21 EXCLUDES NHAICITY SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FOR WHICH SEPARATE TRUST ACCOUNTS OPERATE.
31 INCLUDES INFRASTRUCTURE OUTLAYS ALLOCABLE TO CITY
41 ON EXISTING & NEW CITY WIDE SYSTEMS
Si THROUGH NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND FOR ROADS, DRAINS, SOLID WASTES AND SANITATION COMPONENTS.
6i PARTICULARLY ON REAL ESTATE AND BUSINESS TAXES.
It FOR MARKETS, SLAUGHTERHOUSES AND BUS TERMINALS FROM A DESIGNATED GOVERNMENT BANK.



- 82 -
PHILIPPINES                                              ANNEX  10
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECTJ
NACOLOD MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISES CASH FLOW                                TABLE 2B
(PESOS 000'5)
1983      1984      1985      1986      1987       19ts      1989      1990
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 11
MARKET RENOVATION                          320      1450
NEW MARKET                                          2680      3840      1880
MANAGEMENT & MAINTENANCE                     800      1200      1600      2490       2653      2822      3060      3300
DEBT SERVICING
COMMITMENT FEE                              54        42        21         5
LOAN CHARGES                               112       445       903      1276      1454       1601      1601      1601
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                            1287      5817       6364      5651      4107      4423      4661       4901
SOURCES OF FUNDS
RENTS & FEES 21                              200      3330      3330      4330       5062      5062      5062      5562
LOANS
IERD                                      115       1602      2869      2059       677
OTHER                                     1000      1100       500
TOTAL SOURCES                                 1315      6032      6699       6389      5739      5062      5062      5562
ANNUAL SURPLUS                                  29       215        335       738      1632       63S       401       661
11 INCLUDES DESIGN & SUPERVISION, PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES.
21 THREE-YEARLY RENT REVIEW PROPOSED FOR MARKETS FOLLOWING COMPLETION.



- 83 -
PHILIPPINES                                         ANNEX 10
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                               --------
BACOLOD SHELTER CASH FLOW                                    TABLE 2C
(PESOS MILLION)
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1918      1989      1990
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 11
SERVICED SITES-
VILLAMONTE                                  7.18    19.44       8.89      4.28
BANAGO                             3.11     6.04    13.94       5.19
NEW MARKET                         0.49      0.83
COMMUNITY FACILITIES                    2.50      2.79      3.07      3.32
UPGRADING-
YULO PARK                          0.75     0.28      2.50      2.74
NEW MARKET                         0.65      0.65
MALALUSAN                          0.84     0.31       1.23     0.96
OTHERS                             0.89      0.99     2.21      3.24
BUILDING LOANS                                              1.3I      1.46      2.12
LESS CAPITAL RECEIPTS21                 1.38      2.86      6.56      3.87      0.96
SUB TOTAL                          7.85    16.21    37.15    21.93        5.44      0.00      0.00      0.00
MANAGEKENT 31                             0.01      0.04      0.05      0.08      0.11      0.11      0.11      0.11
DEBT SERVICING
COMMITMENT FEE                          0.46      0.39      0.25      0.09     0.01
LOAN CHARGES AND P&I                    0.80      1.38      3.69      6.24      7.42     7.66      8.87      8.87
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                           9.12    18.02    41.14    28.34    12.98         7.77      1.98      8.98
SOURCES OF FUNDS
PROJECT REVENUES
LOT SALES-IND/CON                                 3.78      8.08    10.00
MORTGAGE PAYMENTS-
UPGRADING 41                       1.10     1.31      1.67      2.73      3.59      3.71      3.71      3.71
SITES & SERVICES                             0.84     2.46      4.48      6.78      7.95      6.70      6.70
IBRD LOANS                                2.82      8.66    19.21    21.26       9.85      1.96
NHA CAPITAL INVESTMENTS                   7.00      7.00    19.00       2.00
TOTAL SOURCES                              10.92    21.59    50.42    40.47    20.22    13.62    10.41    10.41
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS                           1.81     5.38    14.66    26.79    34.03    39.88    41.30    42.73
1t INCLUDES DESIGN & SUPERVISION, PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES.
21 INCLUDES OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE AND COMMUNITY FACILITIES CHARGEABLE TO OTHER AGENCIES.
31 AT 5% OF UPGRADING COLLECTIONS.
41 INCLUDES BUILDING LOAN REPAYMENTS.



- 84 -
PHILlPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                           ANU1&1O
CAGAYAN DE ORO CITY REVENUE PROJECTIONS                                            TABLE 3i
(PESOS 000S5)
------- ACTUALS -------       -EST-    ----------------------- PROJECTIONS ------------------------
197#      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985       1186       1987      II8I
BALANCE BTIFWB                   371S       3311       5460      7333       6040      4571      11340     1302t      24751     29163      32663
A EXISrING OPERATIOKS
RECURRENT ESPENDITURES          14179      20203      24089     30914      36288     41000      44000     41400      SI010     56000      61000
CAPITAL OUTLAYS                   6696      4527       6059     10063       1843      1227       1349       1484      1633       1797      1976
SUB TOTAL                     21575     24730      30148      40977     45131      42227     45341      49484     52633      57797      62976
FINANCED BY:
LOCAL REVENUES                  14736      17145     20160      23434     25282      27061      2964!     32455      341738    31794      42954
GOVT. GRANTS 11                   4770      9304      11486     16000      15011     1l800      17640     11522      19448     20421      21442
BORROWINGS 21                     1703       300        375
SUB TOTAL                     21217     26129      32021      39434     41162      43861     47288      50977     5418i      59215     64396
ANNUAL SURPLUS                     -358      2099       1873     -1543      -396S       1634      1939       1493      1553       1411      1428
B PROJECT IMPACT
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 31                                                             a      1310       3860     142810    18270       96S6        460
INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTEN-4                                                               700       2200      3000       6411      8200      10000
ANCE EXPENDITURES
DEBT SERVICE                                                                   a          0        81        399      2166      4320       5235
SUB TOTAL                                                                    0      2010      6141      18479     26836      19480      15695
FINANCED BY:
BORROWINGS 5S                                                                  0       960       3860     14200      18270      6960        460
REVENUE REFORMS 6/                                                250       25Q0      6200       6900      8980      10250     12000      14000
MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISE
ANN SURPLUS                                                                          55       131        129       215       1702        504
REFUSE 6 SANITATION FEES                                                                                    400        900        900       908
SUB TOTAL                                                       250      2500       7215     108l 1     23709     29695      21562     15164
PROJECT SURPLUS                       0          0         0        250      1508      5135       4750      5230       2859       2082       169
OVERALL SURPLUS                    -358      2099       1873     -1293      -1469      6769       6609      6723       4412      3500       IS0
BALANCE CDIFVD                   3361       5460       7333      6040       4571     11340      18029     24751      29163     32663      34252
- -      _   _   _   _- _- _- _-_-_-_-_- _- _- _- _-_-_- _-_-_-_-_-_- _- _-_-_-_- _- _   _ - _- _- _ -_   _ -_-_-_-_-_ -_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_
SOURCE: MISSION ESTIMATES.
RATIOS
LOCAL/TOTAL REVENUES                 0.69      0.64       0.63      0.62       0.64       0.66      0.67       0.69      0.70       0.71      0.73
LOCAL REVENUES/RECURRENT
EXPENDITURES       0.99       0.05      0.04       0.77       0.77      0.80       0.79      1.80       0.78      0.79       0.80
I  ASSUMED TO INCREASE AT ABOUT 51 P.A. FROM 1982.
21 EXCLUDES KNHA/CITY SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FOR WHICH SEPARATE TRUST ACCOUNTS OPERATE.
3/ INCLUDES INFRASTRUCTURE OUTLAYS ALLOCABLE TO CITY
11 ON EXISTIXG & NEW CITY WIDE SYSTEMS
5/ THROUGH NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND FOR ROADS, DRAINS, SOLID WASTES AND SANITATION COMPONENTS.
61 PARTICULARLY ON REAL ESTATE AND BUSINESS TAXES.



- 85 -
PHILIPPINES                                       ANWEI 10
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                             --------
CAGAYAN BE ORO MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISES CASH FLOW                        TABLE 3B
(PESOS 000'S)
1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 11
KARKET RENOVATION                         530      2940      2620
SLAUGHTERHOUSE                            930      3460      2700
OUS TERMINAL                              290       650      2180      4400
MANAGEMENT & MAINTENANCE                              500       900      2100      3228      3902      4213      4709
DEBT SERVICING
COMMITMENT FEE                            109        85        45        12         0
LOAN CHARGES                              147       954      234t      3367      3974      4089      4089      4089
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                           2005      8589    10794       987?      7202      7991      8372      8798
SOURCES OF FUNDS
RENTS & FEES 21                                      1200      1900      5800      7295      8495      8699      8909
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS 31                    420
LOANS
18RD                                      640      3220      5324      4354      1610
OTHER                                    1000      4300      3700
TOTAL SOURCES                                2060      8720    10924    10154        8905      8495      8699      8909
ANNUAL SURPLUS                                 55       131       129       275      1702       504       327       111
11 INCLUDES DESIGN A SUPERVISION, PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES.
21 THREE-YEARLY RENT REVIEW PROPOSED FOR MARKETS FOLLOWING COMPLETION.
31 LAND COSTS FINANCED BY CITY.



- 86 -
PHILIPPINES                                             ANNEI 10
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPKENT PROJECT                                   --------
CAGAYAN DE ORO SHELTER CASH FLOW                                    TABLE 3C
(PESOS MILLION)
1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1?89      199S
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 11
SERVICED SITES-
IAUSWAGAN                          0.99      6.60      7.85
COMMUNITY FACILITIES                                         0.27
UPGRADING                                          0.62      2.26      3.78      4.09
BUILDING LOANS                                     0.26      0.59      0.65
LESS CAPITAL RECEIPTS21                  0.15      1.12      1.65      0.66      0.61
SUB TOTAL                          0.84      6.36      9.32      3.77      3.48      0.00       0.00      0.00
KANAGEMENT 31                                                  0.01      0.03      0.05      0.07      0.06      0.06
DEBT SERVICING
COMMITMENT FEE                           0.13      0.11      0.06      0.03      0.01
LOAN CHARGES AND P&I                     0.17      0.35      1.03      1.59      1.90      2.05      2.37      2.37
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                           1.14      6.81     10.43      5.41      5.44       2.12      2.43      2.43
SOURCES OF FUNDS
PROJECT REVENUES
LOT SALES-INDICOM                                  4.77      3.63
MORTGAGE PAYMENTS-
UPGRADING 41                                           0.20      0.60      1.03       1.30      1.20      1.20
SITES & SERVICES                             0.31      1.15      2.82      1.87      1.87      1.87       1.87
CAPITAL RECEIPTS
IBRO LOANS                               0.30      2.58      5.63      4.70      2.60      1.25
NHA CAPITAL INVESTMENTS                  1.00      5.00      3.00
TOTAL SOURCES                                1.30    12.66      13.61      8.12      5.50       4.42      3.07      3.07
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS                           0.16      6.01      9.19    11.90    11.96       14.26    14.90      15.54
11 INCLUDES DESIGN I SUPERVISION, PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES.
21 INCLUDES OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE AND COMMUNITY FACILITIES CHARGEABLE TO OTHER AGENCIES.
3/ AT 5% OF UPGRADING COLLECTIONS.
4/ INCLUDES BUILDING LOAN REPAYMENTS.



- 87 -
PHILIPPINESANE                                                              0
REGIOlAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                             -------
DAViO CITY REVENUE PROJECTIONS                                              TAILE 41
(PESOS Dil s)
-------ACTUALS--------    -EST-    -----------------------PROJECTIOKS-------------------------
1971      1979      1980      1981       1982      12J3      1914       1915      19t8      1907       19s8
BALANCE IT/IFVD                  9387     10488     istao     29329    31442    34449    37709    41972    51793             4312    6b8707
A EIISTING OPERATIONS
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES          44075     54535     56742     71841      71701     77000     84080      93000     97600   102010   189000
CAPITAL OUTLAYS                  4638      4806      9962     12013      12613     13214       9445     19200     til17      18II8    1214t
SUB TOTAL                    48713      59341    6704       83154      84314     90214     95445    103280    100117   1131l8   121849
FINANCED BY:
LOCAL REVENUES                  31615     39085     46003     47l60      47546     50414     54493      59342     62925     66802      72i67
GOVT. GRANTS 1/                 1119t     25456     34342      37907     39375     40st9    42499       45279    47043       489t5    58841
BORROVINGS 2/
SUB TOTAL                    49014      64541     00345    05067      8921       91313     971t2    104641   10978    115777    123537
ANNUAL SURPLUS                    1101      5200     13641       1213      2607      1099       1747      1441      1961       1879      1488
B PROJECT InPACT
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 31                                                           0      4170     10440      27410    3#780       9920       2100
INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTEN-4                                                            3200      5300      0308      12210    17400      20408
ANCE EIPENDITURES
DEBT SERVICE                                                                 0          a       202       813      4425      8122       9479
SUB TOTAL                                                                  0      7370     16162     36803      47685     35442     31989
FINANCED BY:
BORROWINCS 5/                                                                0      2670      0140      27490     38980      9920       2110
REVENUE REFORMS 61                                              1100      2200      4700    10100       160lo     215S0     23700      27000
MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISE
ANN SURPLUS                                                                        161       438        693      4683      1510       1148
RErUSE I SANITATION FEES                                                                                 s00       1000      le2       1201
SUB TOTAL                                                    1100       2200      7531     11671    45183       60163     36330     32178
PROJECT SURPLUS                      o          0         0      1100      2200       161       2516      0sl0     12551        888       109
OVEIALL SURPLUS                   1101      5200     13641       2313      4007      1260       4263      9021     14519      2747       1877
BALANCE CDIFWD                  10488     15688     29329    31642       36449    37709      41972      51793    44311      I9078      70955
SOURCE: M1ISION ESTIMATES.
RATIOS
LOCALITOTAL REVENUES                0.70      0.61       0.57      0.56      0.56       0.57    o0.o        0.42      0.64       0.65      01.
LOCAL REVENUES(RECURRENT
EXPENDITURES       0.31      0.72      0.01       0.67      0.69      0.9        0.71      0.74      0 77       0. 74      .77
1/ ASSUMED TO INCREASE AT ABOUT 5% PA. FROK  192.
21 EXCLUDES NHAICITY SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FOR WHICH SEPARATE TRUST ACCOUNTS OPERATE.
31 INCLUDES INFRASTRUCTURE OUTLAYS ALLOCABLE TO CITY
41 INC & EW CITY WIDE SYSTEMS
st THROUGH NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND FOR ROADS, DRAINS, SOLID WASTES AND SANITATION COMPONENTS.
fii PARTICULARLY ON REAL ESTATE AhD BUSINESS TAKES.



- 88 -
PHILIPPINES                                   ANNEX 10
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                         --------
DAVAO MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISES CASH FLOW                       TABLE 4B
(PESOS 000iS)
1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1918      1989      1990
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 11
MARKET RENOVATION                        1270      5040
NEW MARKETS                              2820      7330    15520
SLAUGHTERHOUSE                           2270      6510
BUS TERMINAL                             1480      5850
MANAGEMENT & MAINTENANCE                              500      2200      2828      2976      3135      3305      3487
DEBT SERVICING
COMMITMENT FEE                            235       148        41
LOAN CHARGES                              517      2835      5608      6937      7711      7781      7781      7781
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                           7322    23174    23369        9765    10757    10916    11086         11268
SOURCES OF FUNDS
RENTS & FEES 21                                      2050      9373    10938    12307       12784    12967    13159
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS 31                   1500
LOANS
IBRD                                    2783    11562       14289      5510
OTHER                                    3200     10000       400
TOTAL SOURCES                                7483    23612    24062    16448    12307    12784    12967    13159
ANNUAL SURPLUS                                161       438       693      6683      1550      1868      1881      1891
11 INCLUDES DESIGN & SUPERVISION, PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES. BUT EXCLUDES MINI INDUSTRIAL ESTATES.
21 THREE-YEARLY RENT REVIEW PROPOSED FOR MARKETS FOLLOWING COMPLETION.
31 LAND COSTS FINANCED BY CITY



- 89 -
PHILIPPINES                                             ANNE2 10
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                       -
DAVAO SHELTER CASH FLOW                                       TABLE 4C
(PESOS MILLION)
APPLICATION Of FUNDS                         1983      1984      1985      1916      1987      1981       1989      1990
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 11
SERVICED SITES-AGDAO                     3.15      6.14    11.72       2.55
-OTHERS                            5.13    11.45    18.17    20.44         7.33
COMMUNITY FACILITIES                                         1.07
UPCRADING                                2.52      4.20    10.87    11.91        1.84
BUILDING LOANS                                               1.75      3.87      4.22
LESS CAPITAL RECEIPTS21                  0.85      2.32      5.53      5.58      3.98      1.10
SUB TOTAL                          4.82    13.15    31.33    31.62    22.53          6.23      0.00      0.00
MANAGEMENT 31                              0.00      0.01      0.04      0.08      0.12      0.17      0.17      0.17
DEBT SERVICING
COMMITMENT FEE                           0.53      0.47      0.38      0.22      0.09      0.02
LOAN CHARGES AND P&l                     0.73      0.90      2.66      5.16      7.31      8.45    10.10    10.10
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                           6.08    14.53    34.41    37.08    30.05         14.87    10.27    10.27
SOURCES OF FUNDS
PROJECT REVENUES
LOT SALES-INDICOM                                  6.85    14.75    11.57    10.08
MORTGAGE PAYMENTS-
UPGRADING 41                       0.07      0.26      0.85      1.67      2.49      3.34      3.31      3.31
SITES & SERVICES                             0.25      2.17      7.43    11.47    10.35        9.47      9.47
CAPITAL RECEIPTS
IBRD LOANS                              1.59      5.94    14.70    20.81    17.90          9.51      2.06
NHA CAPITAL INVESTMENTS                  4.08      9.53    18.00    10.00        2.00
TOTAL SOURCES                                5.74    22.83    50.47    51.48    43.94    23.20    14.84    12.78
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS                          -0.34      7.96    24.02    38.42    52.31    60.64    65.21    67.73
11 INCLUDES DESIGN & SUPERVISION, PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES.
21 INCLUDES OFF-SITE INERASTRUCTURE AND COMMUNITY FACILITIES CHARGEABLE TO OTHER AGENCIES.
3! AT 5% OF UPGRADING COLLECTIONS.
41 INCLUDES BUILDING LOAN REPAYMENTS.



- 90 -
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                             X
[LOILO CITY REVENUE PROJECTIOSS                                          TAILE 5A
(PESOS 088811
------ ACTU TLSU--------    -EST-    --C------N---------------PROJECTIONS-------------------------
1971     1979      1t88      1981      1982      1983     1394       1985      1916      1t87      1988
BALANCE BT[FrWD                 1746     4374      5690      4914      6304      7377    12951      10135    24231    35416    31315
A EXISTING OPERATIONS
RECURRENT EIPENDITURES         18209    22612     29417     37214    37319    42000    45080    40500    s1515          550e0     59500
CAPITAL OUTLAYS                 5231      2939     4081      2343       701       752       005       87i       931      1117      1094
SUB TOTAL                   23440    15551    33579    39557    40070    42752    45115    49371    52431    51it7    18594
FINANCED BY:
LOCAL REVENUES                16550    17208    21120    25051        25200    21827    21456    323t2    34471    31691    40402
GOVT. GRANTS 11                 4518      9659    11718    1421t    15143    11055    17027    10215    19171    28349    21104
BORROWINGS 21
SUB TOTAL                   21010    21687    32838    37312    40343    4207?    46483    52457    5314f    57045    42180
ANNUAL SURPLUS                  -2372      1316      -741      -245       273       125       671      0iti     1211      1031      1412
S PROJECT IMPACT
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 31                                                         0     1450      7780    13900    14940        5560         0
INFRASTRUCTURE NAINTEN-4                                                          880      2000      3300      4108      638e      7300
ANCE EXPENDITURES
DEBT SERVICE                                                               0         0        14      706      2571      4411      5179
SUB TOTAL                                                               0      2250      9844    I7t01      22311    11237      12479
FINANCED BY:
BORROWINGS 51                                                              0      6140     7610    13980    14140        5518         0
REVENUE REFORMS Li                                            1600     2000      5000      6600      0000      7401    l1090      11500
MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISE
ANN SURPLUS                                                                     14       135       123      7038       147      1115
REFUSE 6 SANITATION FEES                                                                              480       pi0       910       900
SUB TOTAL                                                   1600     2800      5704    14345    22923    32273    18207         13515
PROJECT SURPLUS                     a         a         0      1600     2800      3454      4501      5017      9917      1931      1816
OVERALL SURPLUS                -2372       1311     -741      1355      3073      3579      5179      6103    11178       2919      2496
BALANCE CDIFWD                  4374      5690     4949.    63014      9377    12956    18135    24238    35411         30305    40813
SOURCE:  MISSION ESTIMATES.
RATIOS
LOCALITOTAL REVENUES               0.79      0.614     0.614     0.65      0.65     0.11      0.61      t.i9      0.70      0.70      8.71
LOCAL REVENUESIRECURRENT
ESPENDITURES      0.91      0.76      0.72      0.72      0.71      0.74      0.77      0.5t      0.70      0.78      0.78
11 ASSUMED TO INCREASE AT ABOUT 5% P.A. FROM 1902.
21 EXCLUDES NHAICITY SLUM IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FOR WHICH SEPARATE TRUST ACCOUNTS OPERATE.
31 INCLUDES INFRASTRUCTURE OUTLAYS ALLOCABLE TO CITY
41 ON EXISTING & NEW CITY WIDE SYSTEMS
51 THROUGH NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND FOR ROADS, DRAINS, SOLID WASTES AND SANITATION COMPONETS, & THROUGH NA FOR SHELTER
Li PARTICULARLY ON REAL ESTATE AND BUSINESS TAIES.



- 91 -
PHILIPPINES                                           AMEX 10
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                 --------
ILOILO MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISE CASH FLOW                               TABLE 5B
(PESOS'000)
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988    189        1990
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 11
MARKET RENOVATION                       5150      8650      5350
NEW MARKET                               110       620      1940
KANAGEMENT 6 MAINTENANCE                             500      1400      1700      1800      1900      2034     2177
DEBT SERVICING
COMMITMENT FEE                           103        64        20
LOAN CHARGES                             532      1861      3044      3601      4004      4004     4004      4004
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                           5896    11695    11754       5301      5804      5904      6033      6181
SOURCES OF FUNDS
RENTS & FEES 2!                                     225P      6425      9719      6651      7069      7069     7317
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS 31                   170
LOANS
IBRD                                    1890      5222    5S51        2620
OTHER                                   3900      4350
TOTAL SOURCES                               5960    11831    12376    12339         6651      7069      7069      7317
_ _ _ _ _ _ _
ANNUAL SURPLUS                                 64      135       623      7038       847      1165      1031      1136
11 INCLUDES DESIGN & SUPERVISION, PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES.
2/ THREE-YEARLY RENT REVIEW PROPOSED FOR MARKETS FOLLOWING COMPLETION.
31 LAND COSTS FINANCED BY CITY.



- 92 -
PHILIPPINES                                        ANNEI 10
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                             --------
ILOILO SHELTER CASH FLOW                                   TABLE 5C
(PESOS MILLION)
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL OUTLAYS 11
SERVICED SITES-
MANDURRIAO                         1.10      5.42    10.33    15.99       8.80
COMMUNITY FACILITIES                                        1.57      2.58
UPGRADING
B OBRERO                           1.01     2.07      6.94      9.25      2.50
FORESHORE                          0.35      0.48     3.46      4.52      2.71
BUILDING LOANS                                              1.45      1.71      1.70
LESS CAPITAL RECEIPTSZI                 0.37      1.20      3.56      5.11      2.36
SUE TOTAL                          2.09      6.77    20.19    28.94    13.35        0.00      0.00      0.00
MANAGEMENT 31                                       0.00      0.07      0.15      0.27      0.24      0.22      0.22
DEBT SERVICING
COMMITMENT FEE                                    0.40      0.37      0.30     0.16      0.12
LOAN CHARGES AND P6I                    0.49      0.46      1.58      3.62      5.37     5.92      7.49      7.49
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                           2.58     7.63    22.21    33.02    19.15         6.28      7.71      7.71
SOURCES OF FUNDS
PROJECT REVENUES
LOT SALES-INDICOM                                 3.64    10.45       7.21
MORTGAGE PAYMENTS-
UPGRADING 41                                0.20      1.13      2.77      4.45      4.40      4.32      4.32
SITES & SERVICES                                       1.41     3.07      5.34      4.75      4.35      4.35
CAPITAL RECEIPTS
IBRD LOANS                              0.79      3.34    10.17    18.53    15.95        5.04
NHA CAPITAL INVESTMENTS                 3.00      6.00      9.00      8.00
TOTAL SOURCES                               3.79    13.18    32.16    39.58    25.74    14.19           8.67     8.67
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS                           1.21     6.76    16.71    23.27    29.86    37.77    38.73    39.69
1/ INCLUDES DESIGN & SUPERVISION, PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONTINGENCIES.
21 INCLUDES OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE AND COMMUNITY FACILITIES CHARGEABLE TO OTHER AGENCIES.
31 AT 5% OF UPGRADING COLLECTIONS.
41 INCLUDES BUILDING LOAN REPAYMENTS.



PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Economic Benefits /a
(P million)
Benefits
Costs                                         First year                    Total VOC   Estimated
Economic  Annual   Market   Rentals  Rentals          vehicle                      and travel  economic
cost of    main-    value   & fees    & fees    operation            First year  time savings  rate of
capital   tenance   sales   over 20  8th year  cost savings  travel time   over 10-15   return
Component        investment  costs   price/b  years/c          /d        (VOC)/e        savings/e       years /f    (x)
Shelter
Bacolod               110.06    -         142.80       -         -           -               -               -           25
Cagayan de Oro         35.67    -          45.45       -         -           -               --                          29
Davao                 122.10    -         168.59       -         -           -               -               -           36          1
Iloilo                 97.33    -         127.97       -         -           -               -               -           30          >
Public Enterprises
Markets                78.86    7.35        -        355.63    21.58         -               -               -           19
Slaughterhouses        13.59    1.55        -         87.61      5.40        -               -               -           23
Bus terminals          14.09    0.63        -         55.16      3.46        -               -               -           18
Streets
Bacolod                23.67    0.69        -          -         -            0.76           3.50           96.79        17
Cagayan de Oro         12.86    0.56        -          -         -            0.68           4.52           75.62        37
Davao                  96.70    4.26        -          -         -           8.79           13.28         404.13         27
Iloilo                 15.48    0.56        -          -         -           0.37            1.66           53.52        27
/a  Detailed computations of economic returns are in the project file.
T7 All plots assumed sold or mortgaged within five years.
/c Assumed economic life of facility.
Td Approximate date when all facilities begin operating at maximum efficiency.
/e Vehicle operating cost savings and travel time savings assumed to increase in range of 4-8% p.a.
7T Estimated economic life of cement surface 15 years, bituminous surface 10 years.



ANNEX 12
- 94 -                             Page 1
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents in Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies
1.  Towards Urban IV:  Spatial Strategies, Issues and City Choices in the
Philippines; Harry W. Richardson; April 1979.
2.  Project Identification Reports:  A series of reports identifying composi-
tion and scale of potential project in Cagayan de Oro and Davao;
COWIConsult; December 1979.
3.  Project Identification Reports:  A series of reports identifying composi-
tion and scale of potential project in Bacolod and Iloilo; Gilmore Hankey
Kirke; December 1979.
4.  Financial Study:  A review of financial capacity and capability of four
selected project cities to support projects under the Regional Cities
Development Project; Alexander Grant and Company; December 31, 1979.
5.  Municipal Management Study:  A review of municipal management needs and
proposed reforms in four selected project cities; Alexander Grant and
Company; December 13, 1980.
6.  Fire Protection: five-volume feasibility study of a comprehensive fire
protection program in Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro, Davao, and Iloilo;
Renardet S.A. - Sauti/Louis Berger International, Inc; November 1981.
7.  Hinterland Roads: two volume feasibility study of hinterland road poten-
tial in Cagayan de Oro and Davao; Renardet S.A. - Sauti/Louis Berger
International, Inc.; November 1981.
8.  Slaughterhouses: two-volume feasibility study of slaughterhouse poten-
tial in Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro, Davao, and Iloilo; Renardet S.A. -
Sauti/Louis Berger International, Inc.; November 1981.
9.  Project Preparation Reports: series of technical and feasibility
reports and drawings for project components in Cagayan de Oro and Davao;
COWIConsult; February 1982.
10. Project Preparation Reports: a series of technical and feasibility
reports and drawings for project components in Bacolod and Iloilo;
Gilmore Hankey Kirke Partnership in Association with Planning Management
and Development Systems, Inc., February 1982.



ANNEX 12
-95 -                              Page 2
11. Regular and Mini-Industrial Estate Feasibility Studies: a series of
technical reports and drawings for regular industrial estates in
Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro, Davao, and Iloilo; and for mini-industrial
estates in Cagayan de Oro and Davao; COWIConsult; March 1982.
B. Project File Working Papers
1. Procurement Analysis Working Papers
2. Financial Analysis Working Papers
3. Economic Analysis Working Papers
4. Bank mission Aide-Memoires
5. Bank mission Back-to-Office Reports
6. Memoranda of Agreement among project agencies
7. Joint venture arrangements between NHA and project cities for shelter
8. Cost Recovery Technique by Component
9. Urban Poverty Impact
10. Unit costs for Sites and Services and Slum Upgrading



-96-
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agency Responsibilities for Project Implementation
Component
Central   Civil works       Civil works       operation
Infrastructure       Investing        Gov-t    construction contract approval          and         Land
component            agency   "on-lending" contracting          authority       maintenance  acquisition
Transport
City streets                 City          MPWH         MPWH            MPWH             City         City
National roads (urban)       MPWH          MPWH         MPWH            MPWH             City         MPWH
Road maintenance             City          MPWH         MPWH            MPWH             City         City
Drainage & Sanitation
Main drains                  MPWH          MPWH         MPWH            MPWH            MPWH/City/a  MPWH
Lateral drains               City          MPWH         MPWH            MPWH            City          City
Solid waste management       City          MPWH         MPWH            MPWH            City          City
Sanitation                   City          MPWH         MPWH            MPWH            City          City
Municipal Facilities /b
Slaughterhouses
Markets                   3  City          Govt  /c  City/MPWH          MPWH             City         City
Bus Terminals             }
Mini Industrial Estate
Shelter
Sites and services        }
Slum upgrading            }  NRA/City      NHA        NHA/City          NHA              City         NHA
Commercial/industrial   }
plots
/a MPWH and City will continue to be responsible for maintenance of parts of main drainage sections as
at present.
lb  Design and contracting of all new works will be subject to MPWH review.  In cases where contracts
exceed city approval authority, MPWH will review and approve.
/c MOF will designate a Government owned Commercial or Development Bank for this purpose.
Notes:
1. City design contracts will be awarded by RCDPO.
2. In most cases city and MPWH components will be merged for construction contracting purposes;
in these situations MPWH will handle contracting with the consent of the cities.



- 97                          Table 2
PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agency Responsibilities for City-Financed Components
Responsibility
Operate
Component                    Design      Construct   or maintain
City streets /a
and drainage                 MPWH/CPO    MPWH/CPO          CEO
Solid wastes, management
and sanitation /b            MPWH/CPO    MPWH/CPO          DPS
Markets, bus terminals,
slaughterhouses and
mini industrial estates    CPO            CPO              MED
Site & services, commercial/
industrial plots and slum
upgrading                    NHA/CPO     NHA/CPO         CPO/CHO
/a Minor city street improvements and drainage laterals may be
undertaken by CEO.
lb  Procurement of vehicles and equipment.
LEGEND:  CEO  = City Engineering Office
CHO  = City Housing Office
CPO = City Project Office
DPS = Department of Public Services
MED = Municipal Enterprises Department
MPWH = Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NHA = National Housing Authority



- 98 -                             Table 3
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)
Cumulative        CumulatMve disbursement
Years from                         disbursements            profiles (%) /a
approval    IBRD fiscal year  end of semester    Region-wide  Bank-wide
Year         and semester       US$ mln    %           urban        urban
FY84 First           0.5       1.0/b          --           -
1           FY84 Second          1.3       1.9          0.6           0.2
FlY$5 First          4.4       6.6          4.7          1.8
2           FY85 Second          7.6      11.3         10.9           5.6
FY86 First          16.4      24.5         18.7         11.4
3           FY86 Second         24.5      36.6         28.0         19.0
FY87 First          34.3      51.2         38.3         27.9
4           FY87 Second         44.9      67.0         48.8         37.8
FY88 First          55.6      83.0         59.0         48.0
5           FY88 Second         62.0      92.5         68.4         57.9
FY89 First          65.0      97.0         76.9         67.7
6           FY89 Second         66.0      98.5         84.1         75.5
FY90 First          67.0    100.0          89.9         82.6
7           FY90 Second            -         -         94.4         88.5
FY91 First             -         -         97.7         93.3
8           FY91 Second            -         -        100.0         97.1
FY92 First             -         -            -        100.0
/a The regional profile covers 13 projects, and the Bank-wide profile
covers 40 projects (as per June 11, 1982).
/b Disbursement for front-end fee (US$0.5 million).



PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flow of Funds
GOVERNMENT EQUITY AND LOAN CONTRIBUTIONS
FMIN ISTR YOF PUBLICI    NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE BUDGET    MNSR   FBDE                   ONRPYET
WORKS ANID HIGHWAYSE _                                                                  LOA REPAYMENTS-
0
GOVERNMENT 
2                                      L
2                                             H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22
ci                                                    >.I >-~~~~~  I m    5<
o                               D Sz ZiZ~~~~~~2 
rr  <a       < L|u 
'w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
RCDPO                                             1    O'                 
MEPW H                                            z           < _
0
MPWHH
2                                                                                   u~~~~~~~~~ 
DIRECTOR                                           O                 JECT
0
'S                                                                                            0
CONTRACT 
CONTURACMENTS  t                                          CITY PROJECT OFFICE                              z
DISBURSEMENTS                                                                                                 z
MPWH        MANAGER
>tMANAGER FOR    FOR CITY        MANAGER       
ENGIN EERING   EN TE RPRISES   FOR SH ELTER
CONTRACT DISBURSEMENTS
World Bank-24079



PHI LIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Chart Typical City
rSANGGUNIANG   |     POLICY AND APPROPRIATIONS                                       ADVISORY                  COMMISSIONS
PANLUNGSOD_-_-_ _ _ __ _ _  _ _ _ _ __    CITY MAYOR                   - - - - -   -  - - - - -  -
ICITY COUNCI L)                                                                                                COMTTE
NATIONAL OFFICES
WITH CITY SUPPORT
COURT, AUDIT, FISCAL, SHERRIF,
j  HIGH SCHOOLS, TAX APPEALS,
CITY ADMINISTRATO                      DEED REGISTRY, POPULATION,
KKK, BARANGAY AFFAIRS,
STAPP OFFICES                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NP, AGRICULTURE, ETC.
STAFF OFFICESo
PUBLIC INFORMATION        PERSONNEL SERVICES                                     CiTY SECRETARY'S              CITY LEGAL                    RCDP
OFFICE                    OFFICE                  B                                                        OFFICE               CITY PROJECT OFFICE
LINE OFFICES
F-                  I                    I                                                                                 I -               A    1 1     1 1 
PUBLIC/                              CITY                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOCIAL
CITY           CPURLICF                                       ITY            CITY PLANNING            CITY                 CITY             SERVICES AND             CITY
ASSESSORS        CITYTREASURER'S         GENERAL             ENGINEERS        AND DEVELOPMENT          HOUSING              HFALTH             COMMUNITY            VETERINARY
OFFICE                                                                                                OFFICE               OFFICE            DEVELOPMENT            OFFICE
CFFICE  (SIR)                          OFFICE
Wo,Id Bank-24081



r  -_, W % =,.I
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of
Directors
Member of                              General
Steering Committee                    Asst. Gen Manager
Member of                            Executive                                                                     F    Program Technical
Technicai Committee                          Staff                                                                              Services Group
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|  Administrati on                            Fovvr Prora
Direc:tor                                   Dire ctor
Personnel                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Metro-Manila
and                                      Forward                                    Projects
Training                     ~~~Programming                                   ZIP
j  Controllers    |   j   External    1   j   Regional             Also
Controllers            Finance                                   ~~~~~~~~~Projects       Reports
_  and Accoiunts                     _         Budget                            _         SIR                     to
Control                         ~~~~~PBN             Technical
Committee
Monitoring                                  Sproectsl
Dagat Dagatan etc
Industrial
Legagement                         |     EvaluatTDevelopment and
Promotion
World Bank - 20838



PHILIPPINES
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organizational Chart
- r-~ - - - -r--- r - - - - - - - - T-                                           PROJECT STEERING COMMITTEE
F   . >C F                                                          ITY                   MPWH      |    MOD NEDA                       HMS              MLG                              NA
C:0 
IREG IONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT
| F                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECTOFFICE
PROJrCT DIRECTOR INEDA)                             P~~~EGIONAL
OFFICA  F                                                             PROJECT DIRECTOR INEDAI                       BUREAU OF                 ROJECTS
z     <O                                  LOCAL GOVERN-                                                   _DRCTO  FO_                                       LOCAL GOVERNMENT            DEPARTMENT
o                                     MENT FINANCE                                                    DIRECTOR FOR    DIRECTOR PLANNING AND                DEVELOPMENTMANAER
ENGINEERING        MAMAGEMENT (NEDA)
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MNGMN INEDA ) 
PROJECT,            C    MAYOR
CACTION         CIYADMINISTRATO
COMMITTEE
CITY PROJECT OFFICE
Hl U                              REGIONAL                                                ________________REGIONAL
X s  o  OFFICE                                                  CITY PROJECT MANAGER (CITY)                         OPPICE
o > e z                                                                                          ENGINEERING        MUNICTPAL         SHELTER
OFFICE           OFFICE           OFFICE
MANAGE
MANAGER FOR    FOR SPECIAL    MANAGER FOR
ENGINEERING       SERVICES        SHELTER (SIR)
IMPWHI           (CITY)            (CITY)
MPWH/CITY        CITY STAFF        CITY/N HA
STAPP                             STAPFF
LEGEND
OBM      Offitu of Budget and Managenrent         MLG    - Ministry of Local Government
MOF      Ministry of Finace                       NHA         Nationtl Housig Authority
MPWH   -Ministry of Public Works and Highmays     PBAC   - Preoalifi-etioe. Bid and A-ard Committe
MOTI   -Ministry of Trade and Industry            SIR      - Slum Improvement -nd Resortlemene
NEDA   -National Economic and Deunlopmert Authority
MHS    -Mioidtry of Human Sertl-meets
NB: Horizontal li= on links will he e-tatili5hed at central and city levels to ansura projact coordirwatin                                                                                                World Ban-k-2407k



PHILIPINES
REGIONALL CITIES DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Activities                               .   1982            1983         1984         1985           1986          1987         198E
A. Urban Engineering Project
MFWH
Cities
Cities/NHA
B. Proposed RCDF Froject                               :             :             :             :
1. Civil Works 1/                                  :
Il oil o
MPWH                                              --------- -----------
:   :      +++++: ++++++++++: ++::::
:      :         ~~~~***: ***********: ***********: ***w*******: ***********: *****      :
City                                              -  - -  - - - -  - - -  -- -
:     :        ++++: +++++++++++...: ++::::
*    .             .***~~~~~~~~~~~~~* * ** ***:***) * *Y+r -- .* *-., **,
Ci ty/NHA
:                    ++:-+++4++++++++:     ++++++: +++++++++++:::
:      :         ~~~~***: ***********: ***********: ***********: ***********: *****      :
EBacol od
MPWH                                          -  ---------:-----------                                             :: 
:     :       +++++:+++++++++++...: ++::::
City                                             --------- -----------
:     :        ++++: +++++++++++...: ++::::
:            :             .:***********: ***********: ***********: **::
City/NHA                                         --:-----------:-----------
:   :     +++++: ++++++++    :+++++         ::::
Cagayan de Oro                                  :             :             :             :             :
MPWH                                             ----------:---------
:     :       +++++.+++++.........: ++::::
:            :         **.**********s:*********a+******:*****              ***:****:
tCity                                         :----------:-------- ::::::
:      :~~~~~4 ........ ++++++:++::::
City/NHA
:            :          ***:***********:***********:***********:***********:                       o-
Dav ao
MPWH                                             ----------
:            :       +++++:t++++++t-.++++:      +*+++++: +++++       :::
:            :          ***: *****e******: ***********: ***********: *********a*: **********:
City                                             --------- -----------
:            :          ++  ++++    :                  :.                
:            :             :***********:***********:*****            :::
Ci   ty /NHA                                           -------------------------
:            :       ++44-:4-4-4++++++++:      .++++++:+++++        :::
2. Procurement
All Fouir Cities                                             :        ++++:+++++         :    ++s+++  :
:            :*                   ******: *****      **: *****       :::
3. Tech. Asst. e, Traininq                        :             :             :             :             :
Project Imple. (NEDA/MPWH/NHA)                                   ********:*****-*****:***********:***********: *****
Inst.Strengthening 1S Traininq(MOF/MLOG)
F'ro;j.Prep/Stutdi es(NEDA/MDTI/MPWH/MOTC)
1/ MPWH to implement transport, sanitation S< drainage; City to implement muknicipal facilities and NHA to implement shelter component
LEgend'
L-and acquisition                                      ------------
Detailed engineering
Procurement action                                     ............
Investment or implementation                                                                                                      World Bank-24080
Note:  Apparent overlapping of activities caulsed by aggregating separate construction activities.






116'    CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                    120'                                                   1i4                                                   128-
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGtONS
NCR  NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION
I ILOCOS                VEIWESTERN VISAYAS
1  tlocos Norte          37 Akian
2  Abra                  38 Capiz
-20'     3  llocos Sur            39 Antique                                           8                                              PHILIPPINES                                  20'
4  Mountain              40 Iloilo
5  L. LUnion             41 Negras OccidentalRE I N                                                                   L CT          S     D V LO           M       T
6 Banguet f           VICENTRAL VISAYAS                                                             REGIONAL CITIES  DEVELOPMENT
7  Pamgosincn            42  Cebu
II CAGAYAN VALLEY          43  Negras Oriental
8 Botanes                44 Bohol                                                                                    PROJECT LOCATIONS
9  Cagayan               45  Siquijor                                                                                PL
10  Kalinga-Apayao  VITEASTERN VISAYAS                          ,                                                            PROJECT CITIES
12  Isaugeo               46  Northern S.tar                                                                                           CITIES
12  lfugao        ~~~47  lamar                                                                                    0 a OHREGIOALO BONAITES
13  Nueve Viscaya         48  Eastern Sanar ,a                           1   9
14  Quirino               49  Leyte                              -       / 9                                                  REINLBUD IS
5 CENTRAL LUEON             50  Southern Leyte                                         / .  Tuguegarao                  --      PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
16  Tariac              ]X WESTERN MINDANAO                            1 2  0  ;r -s-g  -u    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
17  Zombales              51  Zamboanga del Norte
18  Parpeego              52 Zannboanga del Sur
19  Bulacon               53  Basilan                         3 1   4"            "
20   Bataan               54  Sulu
I5  SOUTHERN TAGALOG  55  Twitowl jS    6                                  -1-           /
21   Quezon             XNORTHERN MINDANAO                Bag.ia       13,
22   Riz.1                 56  Surigoodel Norte                0        1 14
16'   23   Cavite                57  Coemiguin                       .         I 14
24   Laguna                58  Agusn del Norte            1D6aups       fi 
25   Batangas             59  Mlsamis Oriental            71
26   Marinduque           60  Mlsamis Occidental
27   MindoroOriental      61  Bukidnon                    16
28  MindoroOccidental   62  Agusan del Sar            7  .         , ,
29   Romblon            XlSOUTHERN MINDANAO   Angels  18  19
30   Palawan               63  Surigao del Sut ,                    /    121   ' \
Y  BICOL                    64  Davao Oriental                NC 2R
31  Camarines Norte       65  Doasa                          Aorol         5 1
32   Camnarines Sut       66  Davao del S-r          M- nfls oy 23
33  Catanduanes           67  Sauth Cotabato                   N.-  1 24 ?                 31
34  Albay              XJICENTRAL MINDANO                          2~(3
35  Sarsogon              683nadlNNe               ~                                              o1               '
36  Mosbate               68  Lenao del Norte
70  North Cotabato                                -\3                                                                           .S ,4
71  Maguindanaa .                         2                                  3        "..                                -
72  Sultan Kudarot                                                           asp i      )                                        IA
Kilo-et-rs 0         1OO          200           300           N                      029                                                                r
-12'    Miles 0                   100                  236712-
9   \:       937             V/v6>?   Sb  i ~~Ij 48t                                                    2
SOUTH CHINA SEA
suz  SEX                             X        ,lDN   SA             i     s
f                                                               r       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CcgrayrJ  59   ,- I ,
c~~~~~~c
J  China         QjVaSS\4aS                                            CS                                                         7% }gSener i Isantos
OCE/AN 
VIET NAM                                                                                                                 72IsO
S-                                                                 4
BRUNEI  S  r  131? 0                                                                             SE
MALAY  A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Th,n -ap h-n bea prapard hr th. Wnd 8estir staff -xt-i-aly ret the c-nven-ee                                        >
t.-    -  f th..p.   . 5Mcbi i. -.d The edentsnasoo  oas e-d the
s-od--me ,hes- no thin sep ha not onpl. o- the P."t at the Wods B-k easr it,
IA                                                  etOiietes. so~~~~~~~~~~~~y jod9ment en the /egal Stte at nY teritory o any eod--aat a
N  0                                                                                   aeto~1A  'pt-one at sh baoodai-e
120'                                                       124' 



