OFF10!' 1
Do.Ulb t      LOAN NUMBER 2257 PH
Loan Agreement
(Regional Cities Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2257 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         1c4     /0            , 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES ( ereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) part of the Project will be carried out by the National
Housing Authority (hereinafter called NHA) with the Borrower's
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to NHA part of the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments   of  the  Bank   being  hereinafter   called  the   General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Ministries" mean the Borrower's Ministries of Finance
(hereinafter called MOF), Local Government (hereinafter called
MLG),  Public Works   and Highways    (hereinafter  called MPWH),


﻿- 2-
Transportation and Communications (hereinafter called MOTC), and
Trade and Industry (hereinafter called MOTI), respectively;
(b) "NHA" means the National Housing Authority of the Bor-
rower as established and operating under Presidential Decree No.
757 of 1975, as amended;
(c) "NEDA" means the National Economic and Development
Authority of the Borrower;
(d) "Project City" and "Project Cities" mean the cities of
Iloilo (hereinafter called Iloilo), Bacolod (hereinafter called
Bacolod), Cagayan de Oro (hereinafter called Cagayan de Oro) and
Davao (hereinafter called Davao);
(e) "RCDPO" means the Regional Cities Development Project
Office of the Borrower as established and operating under
Executive Order No. 605 of 1980;
(f)  "Infrastructure  Memoranda   of  Agreement"   mean  the
Memoranda of Agreement among MLG, MPWH, RCDPO and Iloilo dated
March 29, 1982; Bacolod dated March 30, 1982; Cagayan de Oro
notarized on April 13, 1982; and Davao dated March 31, 1982; as
amended from time to time after consultation among the Borrower,
the Bank and the respective Project City;
(g) "Shelter Memoranda of Agreement" mean the Memoranda of
Agreement among MPWH, NHA, RCDPO and Iloilo dated February 11,
1982; Bacolod dated April 30, 1982; Cagayan de Oro dated
September 23, 1982; and Davao dated January 24, 1982 as amended
from time to time after consultation among the Borrower, the Bank
and the respective Project City;
(h) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and NHA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes any agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(i) "NHA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and NHA pursuant to Section
3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the NHA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(j)  "NHA Onlending Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between NHA and the Project Cities pursuant to


﻿- 3 -
Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
NHA Onlending Agreement.
(k) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Project Cities      pur-
suant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(1) "Peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-seven
million dollars ($67,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to four hundred ninety-eight thousand seven hundred
fifty-nine dollars ($498,759).
.(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account


﻿-4-
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"   means  the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred     to in   (iii) (B)
he-reunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
pex annum.
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means   the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or
cause to be carried out:
(i) Part A of the Project by MPWH and the Project Cities in
accordance   with   the  Infrastructure   Memoranda   of
Agreement;
(ii) Part B of the Project by the Project Cities;
(iii) Part C of the Project by NRA and the Project Cities in
accordance with the Shelter Memoranda of Agreement; and
(iv) Part D of the Project through its Ministries, NEDA, NRA
and the Project Cities as specified in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall cause NHA to perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NRA
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NHA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) In order to carry out its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section and without limitations upon such obliga-
tions, the Borrower shall inter alia make available to NHA an
equity contribution of 140,000,000 pesos.
(c) In order    to assist NHA and the Project Cities in
carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall relend,


﻿- 6-
through NHA, in the aggregate the equivalent of $21,380,000 of
the proceeds of the Loan to the Project Cities, under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and, NHA, and under an onlending agreement to be entered into
between NHA and the Project Cities, all under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including
those outlined in Parts A.1 and A.2 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(d) The Borr7ower shall exercise its rights under the NHA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protnct the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the NHA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Project Cities in
carrying out Parts A, B and D of the Project, the Borrower shall
relend, in the aggregate the equivalent of $21,470,000 of the
proceeds of the Loan to the Project Cities, under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Project Cities under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank, including those outlined in Schedule 6 and
Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(b) The   Borrower  shall  e,eicise  its  rights under    the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. In order to assist in carrying out the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants
to be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfacto-- to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Cons iltants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the


﻿- 7 -
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, training programs, contract docu-
ments and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-8-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause each Project City:
(a) to set up by December 31, 1984 and thereafter maintain
a municipal enterprise department with responsibilities, staff,
resources and policies including costing and pricing policies
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) to furnish to the Bank for its review by July 1, 1985
and each July 1 thereafter, the results of its annual review of
the costing and pricing.policy for municipal enterprises, and the
recommendations for adjustments, if any, to be implemented in
consultation with the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 9 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
(d) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on public
assets, and to the extent that the Borrower is unable within the
limits of the law in force in its territories to make this under-
taking effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an equiva-
lent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, (i) of the Project Cities, and (ii)
in respect of the Project, of the Ministries or agencies of the
Borrower, responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
'(c)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in


﻿- 10 -
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said separate accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03 (a) The Borrower shall cause the facilities
constructed, and the goods provided under the Project to be
operated   and   maintained   in   accordance   with   appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Cities to
commence implementation   by July 1, 1984 of action programs
satisfactory to the Bank for the improvement of their respective
operations and maintenance functions in the areas of roads,
drainage works and sanitation.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause each of the Project
Cities to limit their respective borrowings to a level which
shall enable each Project City to service its debts.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) NHA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after che
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have


﻿- 11 -
arisen which shall make it improbable that NHA will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Presidential Decree No. 757 of 1975 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of NHA to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dirsolution or disestablish-
ment of NHA or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a. period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of NHA have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the NHA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and NHA;
(c) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Project Cities; and
(d) the NHA Onlending Agreement has been executed on behalf
of NHA and the Project Cities.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.02. The following events are specified as addi-
tional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NRA, and is legally binding upon NHA in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the NRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NRA, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NHA in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified. by the Borrower and the Project Cities,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project Cities,
in accordance with its terms; and
(d) that   the   NHA  Onlending  Agreement   has  been   duly
authorized or ratified by NHA and the Project Cities, and is
legally binding upon NKA and the Project Cities in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date                   IM   3  , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                             7550 CBP-PH
Manila                             40268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
/  V     Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
,,SRegional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 14 -
SCREDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) under Parts B        22,000,000        70%
(1), B (2),
B (3) and C
of the Project
(b) under Part            1,300,000        70%
B (4) of the
Project
(c) other civil          10,000,000        45%
works
(2) Equipment,                 6,700,000        100% of foreign
materials and                              expenditures,
tools.                                     100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 65% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants' services     11,700,000        100%
and training
(4) Fee                          498,759
(5) Unallocated               14,801,241
TOTAL    67,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; on this
basis if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such Category as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) expenditures under Category (1) (b), unless and until
the Bank has been furnished with the results of a study carried
out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, on the
feasibility of a livelihood zone in Davao.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order


﻿- 16 -
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to develop the
Project Cities, and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Municipal Infrastructure
(1) a.    Construction of bridges, and about 10 kilometers
of new streets in Iloilo, Bacolod and Davao.
b.   Upgrading and rehabilitation of about 32 kilo-
meters of existing streets in Cagayan de Oro and
Davao.
c.   Implementation of traffic engineering measures and
associated minor road works.
(2) Improvement of road maintenance capabilities through
the construction of a new maintenance depot in Davao,
the upgrading of existing depots in Iloilo, Bacolod and
Cagayan de Oro, and the provision of plant, equipment
and tools.
(3) a.    Management of solid wastes through the construc-
tion of new dump sites and the provision of
equipment.
b.   Improvement of sanitation in Iloilo and Bacolod
through the provision of equipment and provision
of incinerator compost latrines in Bacolod.
c.   Construction  of about 25 kilometers of      storm
drains  including   laterals,  and  provision   of
related maintenance equipment.
Part B:   Municipal Enterprises
(1) Construction of six new, and rehabilitation of ten
existing, markets.
.(2) Construction of one slaughter house each in Cagayan de
Oro and Davao.


﻿- 18 -
(3) Construction of one bus terminal each in Cagayan de Oro
and Davao.
(4) Construction of a livelihood zone in Davao.
Part C:   Shelter
(1) Provision   of sites and    services with  about  9,580
residential  plots,  including  provision  of   tenure,
infrastructure, and sanitation, health, education and
community facilities.
(2) Upgrading of slums covering about 6,900 plots including
provision of tenure, improvements in infrastructure and
sanitation facilities.
(3) Provision of loans to finance building materials to the
registered beneficiaries under Parts C (1) and C (2)
hereinabove.
Part D:   Technical Assistance and Training
Provision of technical assistance and training:
(1) to MPWH, NEDA, NHA and the Project Cities for Project
implementation;
(2) to MOF, MLG and the Project Cities for institutional
strengthening; and
(3) to MPWH, MOTC, MOTI and NEDA for preparation of future
projects and related studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1988
through   December 1, 2002                  2,235,000
On June 1, 2003                                  2,185,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   (a) For    bidding   purposes,   contracts   for   equipment,
materials, tools and civil works, shall be grouped to
the extent practicable, in appropriate packages in such
a manner as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank so as to permit bulk procurement.
(b) Bidders for civil works contracts shall be prequalified
as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guide-
lines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (1) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,


﻿- 22 -
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of the Philippines may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of the Philippines if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in the
Republic of the Philippines equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to    the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as


﻿- 23 -
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment   and  tools   grouped  in   accordance  with   the
provisions of Part A.3 of this Schedule in packages each costing
less than the equivalent of $200,000 may be procured in
accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, provided that the aggregate of
expenditures for items so procured shall not exceed the
equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.   Contracts for miscellaneous items of equipment, materials
and tools each costing less than the equivalent of $15,000 may be
awarded in accordance with the Borrower's prudent shopping
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided that the aggregate
of expenditures for items so procured shall not exceed the
equivalent of $300,000.
3.   (a) Contracts for civil works each costing less than the
equivalent of $1,500,000 each, may be awarded to pre-
qualified bidders in accordance with the Borrower's
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, provided that the aggregate of expenditures for
such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of
$52,000,000.
-(b) Civil works for the rehabilitation of markets and for
traffic engineering, may be carried out under force


﻿- 24 -
account, provided that the aggregate of expenditures
for works so carried out shall not exceed the
equivalent of $2,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. If prequalification is required,
the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall intro-
duce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list of -prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusions of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Bor-
rower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifica-
tions in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to: (i) contracts for civil works grouped in
accordance with the provisions of Part A.3 of this Schedule in
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more,
(ii) contracts for civil works for markets, bus
terminals, slaughterhouses and schools estimated to cost the
equivalent.of $250,000 or more, and
(iii) contracts for goods grouped in accordance with the
provisions of Part A.3 of the Schedule in packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the inv,,ations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After   bids have   been  received  and  evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,


﻿- 25 -
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this-Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Financial Terms and Conditions for the proposed
Subsidiary Loan and Onlending Agreements
A.   Part C of the Project
1.   Relending of Loan Proceeds from Borrower to NRA
Amount             : $21,380,000 equivalent
Period             : 20 years including
5 years of grace
Interest rate.     : 13% per annum
Commitment charge  : 3/4 of 1% per annum on the
principal not withdrawn
Foreign exchange   : to be borne by the Borrower
risk
Front-end fee      : $160,350 equivalent (to be
capitalized)
2.   Onlending of Loan proceeds from NHA to Project Cities:
Period             : 20 years including
5 years of grace
Interest Rate      : 13% per annum
Commitment charge  : 3/4 of 1% per annum on the
principal not withdrawn
Foreign exchange   : to be borne by the Borrower
risk
Front-end fee      : 3/4 of 1% of the principal
(to be capitalized)
(a) Iloilo
Amount             : $5,603,000 equivalent


﻿- 27 -
(b) Bacolod
Amount               $6,700,000 equivalent
(c) Cagayan de Oro
Amount             : $1,783,000 equivalent
(d) Davao
Amount               $7,294,000 equivalent
3.   Loans under Part C (3) of the Project
Period               15 years, or life of structure,
whichever is shorter
Interest rate        13% per annum
B.   Parts A, B and D of the Project
1.   Relending of Loan proceeds from Borrower to Project
Cities:
Period             : 20 years including
5 years of grace
Interest Rate      : 13% per annum
Commitment charge : 3/4 of 1% per annum on the
principal not withdrawn
Foreign exchange   : to be borne by the Borrower
risk
Front-end fee      : 3/4 of 1% of the principal
(to be capitalized)
(a) Iloilo
Amount             : $4,240,000 equivalent
(b) Bacolod
Amount             : $2,730,000 equivalent


﻿- 28 -
(c) Cagayan de Oro
Amount               $4,370,000 equivalent
(d) Davao
Amount               $10,130,000 equivalent


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 6
Participation in the Project by the Project Cities
1.   The Project Cities shall agree to carry out portions of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement in accor-
dance with the respective Infrastructure and Shelter Memorandum
of Agreement, in each case with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices.
2.   The Project Cities shall cause all goods and         services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
3.   The Project Cities shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, training
programs, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
4.   The Project Cities shall: (i) maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) without
limitation to the provision of paragraph 5 hereunder, enable the
Bank's representatives to inspect the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and examine any relevant records
and documents;. (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds; and (iv)
assist the Borrower in the preparation of the report referred to
in Section 3.06 (d) of the Loan Agreement.
5.   The Project Cities shall enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of each Project City and examine any
relevant records and documents.
6.  -The Project Cities shall duly perform all their respective
obligations under the NHA Onlending Agreement and the Subsidiary


﻿- 30 -
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree the
Project Cities shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
NHA Onlending Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
7.   (a) The Project Cities shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices their operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) The Project Cities shall retain, until one year after
the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
8.   The Project Cities shall: (a) have       their accounts and
financial statements (statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank:
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of their financial statements for such year
as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reason-
ably requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph 7(b) hereinabove, as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿- 31 -
9.   The Project Cities shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the
Project.
10. The Project Cities shall each increase or cause to be
increased to a level and in accordance with a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) the property and business tax collections; and
(b) the tax rate on commercial and industrial property.
11. The Project Cities shall carry out all the provisions in the
Loan Agreement pertaining to the Project Cities, including those
referred to in Section 3.08, 4.03 and 4.04 of the Loan Agreement.
12. (a) The Project Cities shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project,   the  performance   of  their   respective   obligations
hereunder and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Project Cities shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by the Project Cities of their
respective obligations hereunder.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /4L     day of        198 '
FOR SECRETARY


