OFFI CIAL
IDOCUAF 4T   OAN NUMBER 2257 PH
Project Agreement
(Regional Cities Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
Dated                           /6  , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2257 PH
PROJECT AG EMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY (herein-
after called NHA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of the Philippines (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-seven million dollars ($67,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that NHA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NHA, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to NHA on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS NRA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NHA shall carry out its portions of Part C of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement in
accordance with the Shelter Memorandum of Agreement with each of
the Project Cities, all with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿- 2-
conformity   with  appropriate   administrative,   financial   and
engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist NHA in carrying out Part C
of   the    Project,   NHA   shall   employ   consultants    whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be
selected   in   accordance   with   principles   and   procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by-the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the gools and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) NHA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by NRA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) NHA shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to
be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) NHA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
training programs, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for Part C of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) NHA shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Part C of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in Part C of the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in Part C of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank


﻿- 3 -
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Part C of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by NHA of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part C of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower, NHA and the Bank, NHA shall prepa-.re and furnish to the
Bank through the Borrower a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of Part C of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
NBA and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(e) NHA shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of NHA and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. NHA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the NHA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the NHA Onlending
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NHA shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the NHA Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or the NHA Onlending Agreement, or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) NHA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
C of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, the NHA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the NHA Onlending
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
-(b) NHA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of


﻿Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by NHA of its obligations under this
Agreement, the NHA Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the NHA Onlend-
ing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NBA
Section 3.01. (a) NHA shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, plan its future development and
maintain its financial position in accordance with sound finan-
cial, administrative and engineering practices, and under the
supervision of experienced and component management.
(b) NHA shall operate and maintain its equipment, proper-
ties and facilities and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof in accordance with sound engineering
and management practices.
Section 3.02. NHA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. NHA shall by June 30, 1984:
(a) furnish to the Bank a staffing study completed in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) employ on a full-time basis senior staff responsible
for finance, and for operations, respectively, with qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. NHA shall at all times take all steps neces-
sary to maintain its existence and right to carry on its opera-
tions, including Part C of the Project, and shall, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises or other
rights, as may be necessary or useful for the construction and
operation of Part C of the Project and the conduct of its
business.


﻿-5.-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NHA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) NHA shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. NHA shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested,  including, without    limitation  to   the  foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well. as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿- 6-
Section 4.03. NHA shall by December 31, 1983 begin to
implement a program satisfactory to the Bank for the recovery of
costs of its sites and services, and slum upgrading projects.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of NHA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify NHA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NHA:
National Housing Authority
Elliptical Road
Quezon City
Metro Manila, Philippines
Telex:
722-7780
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NHA may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as NHA       shall
designate in writing, and NRA shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, Unites States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By '
621Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
NATIONAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /0      day of       , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


