ft""Mans-W             ~FILE COPY
Appraisal of the Bajo Rio San Juan
and Bajo Rio Bravo Rehabilitabon Project
Mexico
Aprl 16, 1975
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Offce
iNot for Public Use
H
Document of the Intaonal Snk for Recantuctn and Devebpment
Intemal  Doevepment Assocktlon
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CONFIDNTIAL DRUAT
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEIIIOHEXT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PRDJECT
February 14, 1975
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  = Mexican Peso (Mex$)            1 Mex$          - US$ 0.08
US$1           - Mex$ 12.5                      Mex$ 1 million - US$ 80,000
Measures
-   millimeter (1 mm = 0.039 inch)
m    =  meter (1 m 3.28 feet)
km   -   Kilometer (1 km = 0.62 miles)
ha   -   hectare (1 ha = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres)
k12  =   square kilometer (1 km2 = 247.1 acres = 100 ha - 0.386 square miles)
m-   =   cubic meter (1 m3 = 1.31 cubic yards - 264.2 US gallons)
MM3      million m3 (1 Mm3 - 8.11 acre feet)
kg   -   kilogram (1 kg - 2.2 lb)
ton  -   1,000 kg - 2,205 lb
Abbreviations
BANAGRO         - Banco Nacional Agropecuario, S.A.
BANEJIDAL       - Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal (official Bank granting
credit to ejidatarios only)
BANCO AGRICOLA  - Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola, S.A. (official Bank
granting credit to small private holders and colonists)
CONASUPO        - Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares (Government
organization guaranteeing prices and purchases of
subsistence crops)
DAAC            = Departamento de Asuntos Agrarios y Colonizacion (Department
of Agrarian Affairs and Colonization)
DGEA            - Direccion General de Extension Agricola
FONDO           - Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia
y Avicultura (Fund-established by Central Bank to
provide agricultural credit)
IDB             =  Interamerican Development Bank
INIA               Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agricolas
INIP            -  Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Pecuarias
PLAMEPA         -  Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario (SRH group providing
intensive extension service)
SAG             -  Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia (Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock)
SRH             - Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (Ministry of Water Resourses)
Fiscal Year - January 1  - December-31
CENTRAL AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN REGIONAL OFFICE



MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO and BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................    i-ii
I.      INTRODWUCTION  ...........           ...............................          1
II.      BACKGROUND  ............            ................................           1
General  ..........          .................................          1
Irrigation Services  .*               ............................     4
Agricultural Credit  ..............................                     4
Agricultural Education, Research and Extension  ...                     5
III.      THE PROJECT AREA  .......................................                      5
Location            .............................                       5
Soils             .............................                        6
Climate  .         .........................................           6
Population and Employment  ........................                     6
Present Land Use  ........ .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .   ...  7
Transportation,  Processing and Marketing  ........              .      7
Land Tenure and Farm Size  ....................... .                    7
Irrigation and Drainage Systems  ..............                        8
Credit             .............................                        8
IV.   THE PROJECT............................................   9
Description.                                                           9
Construction Schedule  ............................    10
Water Supply, Requirements, and Utilization  ......   11
Status of Engineering  ............................    12
Cost Estimates  .........            ..........................    12
Financing  ............           ............................    13
Procurement  ...........           ...........................    13
Expenditure Schedule  .............................    14
Disbursements  ...           .................................    14
Accounts and Auditing  ............................    15
This report is based on studies prepared by the Secretaria de Recursos
Hidraulicos (SRH) and its consultants, Estudios y Proyectos, S.A. of Mexico
City, the findings of a Bank appraisal mission in October, and a follow-up
mission in December 1974. The appraisal mission was composed of J.C.
Douglass, J-J. Schul, E.P. Riezebos, A. Amir, C. Vidalon and J. Vivas.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .15
Administration ...................................   15
Operation and Maintenance ........     ................   15
Technical Assistance .............................   16
Credit . ....................................   16
VI.    PRODUCTION, FARMERS' INCOME, WATER
CHARGES, AND MARKETS ..................................    17
Production ...................................   17
Income to Farmers ................................   17
Water Charges ....................................   18
Repayment of Investment Costs .......     .............   19
Markets . ...................................   20
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .20
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS ...................................   22
ANNEXES
1.    Soils and Topography
2.    Climatic Data
Table 1 -- Rainfall Data -- Rio Bravo
(B.R.B-1-1 Station)
Table 2 -- Rainfall Data -- San Juan
(SJ-2-18 Station)
Table 3 -- Mean Monthly Temperatures
Table 4 -- Evaporation, Evapotranspiration, Effective
Rainfall and Water Deficits
3.    Land Tenure and Farm Size
Table 1 -- Land Tenure Pattern
4.    Project Works
Table 1 -- Work to be done under Project
5.    Construction Schedule
6.    Water Availability and Utilization
Table 1 -- Bajo Rio Bravo Water Availability
and Diverted Flows
Table 2 -- M.R. Gomez Reservoir Inflows
and Extractions
Table 3    Irrigation Water Demand and Supply
7.    Cost Estimate
8.    Equipment and Materials
Table 1 -- Operation and Maintenance Equipment
9.    Expenditure Schedule
10.    Schedule of Disbursement



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
11.    Operation and Maintenance
Table 1 -- Operation and Maintenance Costs
Table 2 -- Expected Operation and Maintenance
Annual Cost
12.    Agricultural Services
Table 1 -- Agricultural Education and Training
Table 2 -- Agricultural Research and Extension
Services, Manpower Requirements
Table 3 -- Agricultural Research and Extension
Services, Cost Estimates
Table 4 -- Agricultural Research and Extension
Services, Investment Schedule
13.    Agricultural Production
Table 1 -- On-farm Production Costs in Mex$/ha
Table 2 -- Net Income per Hectare
Table 3 -- Cropping Pattern, Production, Costs and
Net Value of Production Without the Project
Table 4 -- Cropping Pattern, Production, Costs and Net
Value of Production With the Project
14.    Farm Budgets
Table 1 -- Farm Budget of a 10 ha Ejido Farm (Model I)
Table 2 -- Farm Budget of a 10 ha Ejido Farm
(Model II)
Table 3 -- Farm Budget of a 22 ha Small Landowner Farm
(Model III)
Table 4 -- Farm Budget of a 13 ha Colono Farm
(Model IV)
Table 5 -- 100 ha Cattle Fattening Farm
Table 6 -- 40 ha Dairy Cattle Farm
15.    Markets and Marketing
Table 1 -- Comparision of the Estimated Current National
Production, Projected Demand and Supply and
the Project's Production
16.    Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 -- Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
CHARTS
7434(R)   -    Organization of SRH
9455      -    SRH Regional Organization
MAP
11389     -    Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio San Juan Rehabilitation Project






MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the rehabilitation of two irri-
gation districts in Mexico serving 280,000 ha in the State of Tamaulipas on
the right bank of the Rio Bravo along the border with the United States.
ii.       In relation to its size, Mexico has only limited agricultural re-
sources.  Out of a total area of nearly 200 million ha, only 35 million have
potential as cropland and less than half of that area is actually cropped,-with
about 4 million ha under irrigation. Inadequate rainfall or lack of suffi-
cient water supplies for irrigation are the main constraints to cropping.
Some 21 million of Mexico's 54 million people live in rural areas, and the
number is estimated to be increasing at a rate close to 2% p.a. Considering
the limited resources, the Government is faced with serious problems regarding
agricultural production and rural employment opportunities. In response, the
Government has adopted policies that place emphasis on irrigation as one of
the most effective means of increasing production.
iii.      The two irrigation districts involved in the project form one con-
tiguous block although they have different sources of water supply. The
Bajo Rio San Juan District derives its supply from the Rio San Juan, as regu-
lated by the existing Marte R. Gomez reservoir, while the Bajo Rio Bravo
District utilizes Mexico's share of the waters of the Rio Bravo (also known
as Rio Grande), as regulated by the international reservoirs constructed
jointly by Mexico and the USA. The project works are primarily designed to
allow Mexico to use this share more effectively for crop production. This
would be accomplished by lining the irrigation distribution systems to reduce
water losses and leveling project lands to increase efficiency of water use
on the farms. The existing drainage system would be enlarged and extended
to provide adequate drainage to project lands. Other facilities would be
provided to bring the districts up to the standards of a modern irrigation
project. An intensive technical assistance program is included in the project
to assist farmers in achieving maximum agricultural benefits.
iv.       Total project costs are estimated at US$384 million, including an
allowance for physical contingencies and an allowance of US$154 million for
price increases, The proposed Bank loan of US$150 million would finance the
foreign exchange component, including a proportionate share of physical and
price contingencies (US$129 million) and 50% of the incremental technical
assistance program, including price contingencies (US$21 million). The
balance would be financed under Government budget.



- ii -
v.        Major civil works contracts would be let under international compet-
itive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines, while land level-
ing and certain small civil works contracts aggregating not more than Mex$ 100
million would be carried out under standard Government procedures. Disburse-
ments under the loan would be made as 45% of the payments to major civil works
contractors, to contractors on land leveling, and to the small civil works
contractors engaged under the Mex$ 100 million aggregate limit. Disbursements
for the technical assistance would be at the rate of 50% of actual cost.
vi.       The Ministry of Water Resources (Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos,
SRH) would be responsible for constructing, operating and maintaining the
project and for providing the technical assistance program to project farmers.
Specialized agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture would, under agreement with
SRH, be responsible for implementation of the technical assistance program.
Normal banking channels would provide the credit requirements and the private
sector would provide the required marketing and supply facilities.
vii.      At full development, about 12 years after the start of the project,
the net annual value of production, valued at end 1974 farmgate prices, would
reach Mex$ 1.7 billion (US$134 million), as compared to Mex$ 0.5 billion
(US$44 million) under future conditions without the project. To achieve this
production, about 34,000 man-years of employment annually would be required,
or about twice the number without the project.
viii.     The annual net income of the average ejidatario farmer would increase
from Mex$ 20,000 to Mex$ 50,000 at full development, while the corresponding
increase for the average private farmer would rise from Mex$ 30,000 to
Mex$ 75,000. The economic rate of return would be about 19%.
ix.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$150 million for a
term of 25 years, with a grace period of seven years. The borrower would be
Nacional Financiera, S.A., the Government agency empowered to contract for
external financing. United Mexican States would guarantee the loan and carry
the exchange risk.



MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mexico has requested Bank assistance in financing
the rehabilitation and betterment of two irrigation districts serving about
280,000 ha in the State of Tamaulipas on the south bank of the Rio Bravo
(also known as Rio Grande). The loan would be made to Nacional Financiera,
with the United Mexican States as guarantor. In the agricultural sector, six
loans have been made to Mexico for irrigation projects, four for agricultural
credit and one for integrated rural development. Progress on all of these
loans has been reasonably satisfactory. One of the earlier irrigation loans
(336-ME in 1964) included rehabilitation work on the two districts in this
project. While work was beneficial, the expenditures of approximately US$100
per ha (of which the loan amount covered only US$33 per ha) were too limited
and solved only a few of the problems involved in achieving maximum agricul-
tural production values from the districts.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Mexico's impressive economic performance since 1960 has been accom-
panied by a sharp reduction in the relative importance of the agricultural
sector, in terms of its share in GDP, employment, and exports. Yet, agricul-
ture remains a crucially important sector in the economy, contributing nearly
40% to commodity export earnings and employing close to 40% of the labor force.
Traditionally, Mexican agriculture has provided for virtually all domestic
consumption, but in the last few years, agricultural imports have dramatically
increased, much more so than agricultural exports. This has caused Government
to increase agriculturets share of public expenditure from 9% in 1971 to 18%
in 1974.
2.02      In relation to its size, Mexico has only limited agricultural re-
sources. Out of a total area of nearly 200 million ha, only 35 million ha
is potential cropland, an inadequate water supply being the main constraint.
Rainfall is too low in the north where most of the rural population lives,
and even in the more humid south a concentration of rainfall in short periods
is one of the factors limiting agricultural development. Thus, only about half
of the potential crop area is actually cropped. Out of this, over 4 million
ha are under irrigation and account for about half of total agricultural pro-
duction.



2.03      The agricultural population can be divided into three groups:
landless peasants, "ejidatarios," and private landowners. The number of land-
less laborers has been increasing, despite migration to the urban centers and
they now number over 1 million. Under the various agrarian reform laws, some
10 million ha of croplands were distributed between 1915 and 1960 to "ejidos,"
or collective land units, in which the individual members, or ejidatarios,
receive a plot for their own use or farm conmunally. The ejidatarios now
number about 1.8 million. Land distribution has continued, but living standarcds
have improved little because of the inadequacy of inputs and poor supporting
services. Only since 1971 have steps been taken to transform the ejidos into
efficient production units.
2.04      Some 10 million ha of cropland are privately owned, but about 90%
of the 1.2 million private landowners have less than 10 ha of cropland, and
are thus in much the same position as the average ejidatario. Only 1% of ,
private farmers (17,000) have more than 100 ha of cropland. Their land totaled
7 million ha in 1960, about 30% of the country's total crop area, but part of
this has since been distributed and more is likely to be distributed in the
future.
2.05      While the land tenure pattern is thus less uneven than in many other
Latin American countries, there are still large differences in income within
the sector. In 1969, the last census year, the average rural income per
family was about US$1,260 equivalent; but 40% of rural families had incomes of
less than US$800 equivalent. However, even the better-off 60% of rural families
still have incomes considerably below those of non-rural families.
2.06      In recognition of this situation, the present Government has
pledged to improve the lot of the poorer farmers. Among the actions already
taken, the following should be noted:
(a)  The new Federal Agrarian Reform Law recognizes the legal
status of the ejidos, which enables them to obtain credit;
gives power to the Departmento de Asuntos Agrarios y Coloni-
zacion (DAAC) to carry out land reform; determines the maximum
and minimum sizes of farms to be held privately; fixes a
ceiling on taxes to be paid by ejidatarios; provides for
redistribution of funds from production taxes paid by private
farmers; and encourages ejidos to diversify into small-scale
industries.
(b)  The Federal Water Law regulates the distribution of water
and land in Irrigation Districts in a more equitable way.
Under this law, the Government can set up new Irrigation
Districts and expropriate, with compensation, land in the
new Districts. The law also stipulates the procedure for
fixing water charges, requiring that the social and economic
situation of individual farmers in each district be taken
into consideration when establishing charges.



- 3 -
(c) Supporting services to agriculture have been stepped up.
For example, from 1970 to 1974, the number of extension
workers increased from 770 to 2,750. Proper extension
services can result in 10% higher rice and soybean yields
and 25 to 30% higher maize and bean yields as compared
with the same crops not attended by extension services.
(d) Agricultural credit has increased, partly financed by
IBRD loans. In 1955, the Fondo de Garantia, a trust
fund in the Bank of Mexico, was set up, and the Banco
Nacional Agropecuario was subsequently created. The total
agricultural loan portfolio of the banking system has in-
creased fourfold since the mid-1960s and there are plans to
enhance the efficiency of the banking system by reducing
the number of banks operating in each region.
(e) The public budget for the rural sector has more than
doubled between 1971 and 1975 and amounted to US$1.2 billion
equivalent in 1974. About one-third of this goes into
productive investment, virtually all into irrigation infra-
structure, as a result of which the irrigated area has more
than trebled since 1950.
2.07      The Government has two major objectives for agriculture in the
years ahead: to keep pace with the growth of domestic consumption 1/ and to
reduce income disparities among the rural population. These objectives are
not mutually exclusive nor do they entirely overlap. Some actions, such as
investment in social infrastructure, 2/ contribute less to the production
objective than would investments in large irrigation schemes, but they help
to reduce income inequalities and underemployment. 3/ Since food production
needs to be increased to cater for an increasing population and rising ex-
pectations of consumption, it is apparent that increased agricultural pro-
duction must remain a major objective along with the promotion of social
equity. The proposed project is consistent with these objectives.
1/   With population growing at 3.4% p.a. and per capita disposable income
by roughly 3%, domestic demand for agriculture products is likely to
grow by at least 5% p.a.
2/   This category of investment has increased from US$70 million equivalent
in 1970 to US$280 million in 1974.
3/   IBRD recently approved a project benefitting the low income areas of
Papaloapan and has another rural development project under consideration.



-4-
Irrigation Services
2.08      The Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SPIT) was established in
1947 as a Federal Ministry, directly responsible to the President of the
Republic, with powers to control and develop the country's water resources.
Due to GDvernment emphasis on agriculture and on irrigation as a means to
increase production, SRH grew rapidly, and has now become the main agricul-
tural organization in the country. It has, to date, developed over 3 million
ha of irrigated land.
2.09      At headquarters there are three subsecretaries concerned with plan-
ning, construction, and operation of projects and a Senior Official who directs
administrative activities. Field responsibility lies in regional offices, and
there are one or more irrigation districts within each region. The regional
office concerned in the proposed project covers the northern portion of the
State of Tamaulipas. It would have direct responsibility for construction
and operation of the project.
2.10      lexican law requires that each irrigation district have a Management
Committee (Comite Directivo) to advise and coordinate operations. This
committee is made up of representatives of SRH (chairman), the Secretaria
de Agricultura y Ganadaria.(SAG) (secretary), the Department responsible for
agrarian affairs, credit institutions and private banks, and farmers.
Nacional Financiera may have a seat on the committee if it requests. Commit-
tee duties include setting up cropping patterns, approving irrigation water
schedules, coordinating credit needs, and fostering crop marketing.
2.11      SRH also has the responsibility and authority to provide technical
assistance to farmers in the irrigation districts. It does this with the Plan
de Mejoramiento Parcelario (PLAMEPA) program. Results have been satisfactory,
particularly with ejidatarios.  The Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) has
granted a US$23 million loan to help finance the first phase of a US$47 mil-
lion project intended to extend PLANEPA's activities over about 1 million ha
of ongoing irrigation projects. Where SRH lacks competence or needs assist-
ance, it enters into agreements with other organizations, particularly those
of the Ministry of Agriculture, for such services.
Agricultural Credit
2.12      Farm credit is provided by both official and private institutions.
The Government's Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal S.A. de C.V. (Banejidal)
lends to ejidatarios, the Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola, S.A. (Banco
Agricola) concentrates on lending to small-scale farmers, and the Banco
Nacional Agropecuario (BANAGRO) lends to any farmer who obtains technical
assistance. About 70% of agricultural lending is by these official institu-
tions and is short term. Medium- and long-term credit from the Government
has become significant only in the last few years through the Fondo de
Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura (FONDO), which



- 5 -
is managed by the Bank of Mexico. It has been financed mostly by IBRD, IDB
and USAID loans. Until 1972, less than 5% of the most needy farmers had
received credit, but the Government has since announced its intention to
guarantee at least 60% of the long-term loans made by private financial in-
stitutions to groups of ejidatarios or other small farmers. Also, in Bank
Loan 910-ME, US$25 million has been reserved for lending to low income pro-
ducers.
Agricultural Education, Research and Extension
2.13      Agricultural education at university and secondary levels has already
reached acceptable standards in both quantity and quality to meet, in the near
future, the country's manpower requirements for trained personnel. The Govern-
ment is now emphasizing post-secondary, non-university, agricultural education
in order to fill the existing gap between middle level technicians and univer-
sity graduates. Training courses for agricultural service staff, farm machin-
ery operators, farmers, homemakers and young farmers, are offered in adult
training centers, agricultural schools and by the extension service. Agri-
cultural research, although presently limited due to financial constraints
and lack of qualified personnel, has achieved considerable success, especially
with irrigated crops.
2.14      The Agricultural Extension Service has been extremely poor in the
past, but since 1970 it has been expanded considerably. In spite of expan-
sion, however, it covers only 16% of the cultivated area and 12% of the
ejidatarios, mainly because of financial and manpower constraints. To com-
pensate for this deficiency, official and private banks and farm input sup-
pliers provide some technical assistance to their clients.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
3.01      The project covers two separate and distinct but contiguous exist-
ing irrigation districts lying in the State of Tamaulipas on the Mexican side
of the Rio Bravo. The Bajo Rio San Juan District (No. 26) derives its water
from the San Juan River as regulated by the existing Marte R. Gomez Reservoir.
Two main canals, the San Pedro on the left bank and the Rode on the right
bank, distribute irrigation water to the approximate 70,000 ha making up the
district. The Bajo Rio Bravo District (No. 25) lies dowinstream and to the
east of the Bajo Rio San Juan District, and gets its water supply from the
Mexican share of the Rio Bravo which forms the boundary between the United
States and Mexico. For the most part, this share comes from water stored in
the two international dams of Amistad and Falcon located on the Rio Bravo.
One main canal, the Anzalduas, carries water diverted at the international
Anzalduas Diversion Dam to serve approximately 210,000 ha of district lands.



-6-
Both districts include other lands served by pumping either from ground water
or from the river. However, such areas are presently irrigated by individu-
ally owned pumps and distribution system and are not therefore included in
the rehabilitation project, which covers only the 280,000 ha served by gravity.
Soils
3.02      Project lands lie between 5 m and 65 m above sea level and slope
gently towards the Gulf of Mexico. They are generally flat, with only minor
undulations, but some 200,000 ha would benefit from slight to moderate land
leveling to smooth out the micro relief. The parent materials are limestone
and sandstone, and the soils were laid down as alluvial clays and clay loams
of medium to heavy textures.  The soils are generally fertile with adequat,e
internal drainage, although some 40%'of the area, primarily the low-lying
land near the sea, is affected by relatively high water table, low permeabil-
ity and, to some extent, salinity. Work accomplished under the Second Re-
habilitation Loan (336-ME) arrested the spread of salinity but did not solve
all problems. About 54,000 ha are best suited for permanent pastures, but
the balance of the area (about 226,0'00 ha) can grow a wide variety of crops
such as cotton, maize, sorghum, wheat, beans, and vegetables. Annex 1 gives
details concerning soils.
Climate
3.03      The climate is dry sub-tropical.  Annual precipitation varies be-
tween 400 and 700 mm. Rain can occur in any month, although the period from
November 1 through March tends to be drier than the summer months. Seven
tropical hurricanes directly affected the area between 1941 and 1972, most of
them occurring in September or October. Temperatures vary from a minimum of
-10°C to a maximum of 44°C, with the annual average about 23°C. Frosts occur
on an average of about five days per year in December and January. Relative
humidity averages about 78% at Matamoros and decreases to about 63% at Reynosa.
Pan evaporation averages about 2,200 mm per year. In nearly all months the
potential evapotranspiration exceeds the precipitation, and irrigation is
essential if maximum agricultural production is to be achieved. Annex 2
provides further climatic details.
Population and Employment
3.04      At the time of the 1970 census the population in the project and
adjacent areas was almost 513,000 inhabitants, 25% of whom were classified
as rural. The average family size is 5.29 persons. Most of the population
is young, with about 55% under the age of 19. About 46% of the active labor
force is in agriculture. While registered -unemployment is only 4.1%, it is
estimated, on the basis of the number of active persons earning less than
the minimum salary level, that actual under-employment is of the order of 33%.



-7-
Present Land Use
3.05      Out of a total of 307,708 ha in both districts (Bajo Rio Bravo
(No. 25) and Bajo Rio San Juan (No. 26)), about 280,964 ha irrigated with sur-
face water would be included in the project.  This area corresponds to 210,362
ha (four out-of six units) in District 25 and 70,602 ha (three out of five
units) in District 26.  Cropping intensity has averaged 115% over the last
five years.  Cotton, which covered more than 90% of the area in the mid-1950s,
has declined progressively as a result of a combination of factors, including
low prices, disease, and lack of harvesting labor. It has been progressively
replaced by maize and sorghum, which, combined, covered 97% of the.area sown
in 1970. In 1974, the proportion of these two crops had been reduced to 85%
by further diversification into beans, pasture, forage, and vegetables.
Although pastures are increasing, the bulk of beef and milk cattle are still1
primarily raised on canal and drain embankments and on crop residues. Veg-
etables, mainly okra, squash, broccoli and stringbeans, are grown principally
for export.
Transportation, Processing and Marketing
3.06      The major towns and cities in the project area are linked by paved
highi-ays as part o- the Ieaxican highway system.  Three bridges link the pro=
esct are2 with ths United States. Roads within the project area are mes-Ily
of earth ana are largely  IL-passable in wet weather.  A railroad line passes
through the project area linking Matamoros and Reynosa to Monterrey and the
balance of the Mexican National Railway system. Air service to Mexico City
is available at Matamoros and Reynosa.
3.07      Existing capacity to process oil seeds and for ginning cotton is
only partially utilized. Milk processing capacity of 120,000 liters per day
is about one-third utilized under present conditions. Most of the vegetable
production is trucked to the United States for the frozen food market. Stor-
age capacity for corn and sorghum is about 600,000 tons, which is barely
adequate for present production.
3.08      Cotton and feeder cattle have been traditional export commodities,
with cotton going to the world market and feeder cattle to the United States.
Vegetables surplus to the local market are also exported to the U.S. Other
agricultural production is marketed in Mexico but only partially meets the
increasing demand for such products as sorghum, corn, beans and milk.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.09      Among the 18,670 farm families having holdings in the project area,
7,440 (40%) are ejidatarios, 7,300 (39%) are small landowners and 3,930 (21%)
are settlers (colonos) (Annex 3). The average farm size is 15 ha, with seven
individual farmers owning more than 100 ha. The average farm size for small
landowners is 21.7 ha; for ejidatarios, 9.8 ha; and for settlers, 12.6 ha.
This land tenure pattern is the result of various earlier land reforms. The



- 8 -
Federal Water Law and Agrarian Reform Law, which define lands which mav be
expropriated, would not be applicable under the project because of the pre-
vious land reforms and because it would not involve the creation of a new
irrigation district. Thus, the present land tenure pattern would remain
unchanged under the project.
3.10      Only about 2.5% of the farmers own more than 50 ha and 12.1% own
more than 20 ha.  Among the 41% of the farmers who own less than 10 ha, about
half have additional land outside the irrigation district totalling 110,000
ha.  On the whole, it is considered that about 80% of the project farmers
occupy farms that are of sufficient size to supoort a family.
Irrigation and Drainage Systems
3.11      The main problem of the irrigation system is water leakage because
the canals are not lined. This contributes to the low efficiency of use of
irrigation water and aggravates the drainage problem since surface water tends
to build up the ground water. Experience indicates that irrigation service be
given as quickly as possible, using large flows, since the shorter the time
water is in the canals the lower the losses. There are also insufficient
structures to permit the water to be fully controlled, or to allow measurement
of quantities of water delivered to individual users.
3.12      The drainage network is quite extensive, and all the major drain
outlets have been constructed or will be constructed before the project com-
mences.  However, the network of drainage laterals is not sufficient to ade-
quately drain all parts of the project, and there are still extensive areas
where the water table is within 1 meter of the surface.
Credit
3.13      Three Government banks, 1/ as well as several commercial banks and
financial companies, operate in the project area.  In 1974, bank credit to
farmers in the project area amounted to Mex$ 116 million, the breakdown of
which by type of bank and term was as follows (in millions of Mex$):
1/   Banco Agricola, Banco Agropecuario and Banejidal.



-9-
Covernment         Private
banks              banks         Total
Short term             38.2                43.0           81.2
Medium and long term   5.4                 12.8           18.2
43.6               55.8           99.4 /1
16.8 /1
Total              116.2
/1   Except for Mex$ 16.8 million, all credit provided by Government and
private banks was discounted with the Fondo de Garantia.
Interest rates on short-term credit vary between 10 and 11% for private farm-
ers and ejidatarios alike. On medium- and long-term credit, the rates range
from 10.5 to 12% for private farmers and are 7.6% for ejidatarios.  Except
for some short-term credit from the Banco Fjidal, lending to ejidatarios has
so far been negligible in the project area. Also, the total amount of lending
in the area is ouite small in proportion to the current valtue of Production
(Mex$ 1. billion), and substantially less than the average -pronortion for
the country. 1I/
IV. THE PROJECT
Descrintion
4.01      The proposed project would complete the rehabilitation of the
280,000 ha on two existing irrigation districts located in the lower Rio
Bravo basin. The works proposed would increase the water supply available
for effective irrigation and reduce the problems associated with high water
tables and salinity. It would improve the internal road network and communi-
cations to assist in achieving operating and production efficiency. The
project would be in line with the Government's policy to increase food pro-
duction in the country. An intensive technical assistance program is also
included.
4.02      Works to be accomplished under the project are summarized as
follows:
1/   Nationally, bank credit covers some 40% of gross value of production.



- 10 -
(a) Irrigation system. Nearly all sections of the main canals
and all the laterals would be lined with concrete to reduce
water losses. Structures as necessary would be rehabilitated
or constructed to provide complete control over the irrigation
water and to measure water deliveries.
(b) Drainage system. Certain of the existing drains would be
enlarged and some 1,300 km of new drains constructed to
increase capacity and supplement the existing drainage
system.
(c) Road system. An improved gravel-surfaced road network would be
provided to allow access under all weather conditions.
(d) Land preparation. About 200,000 ha would be leveled to increase
the irrigation efficiency at farm level.
(e) 0 & M facilities. Houses for ditch riders and operating per-
sonnel would be rehabilitated or constructed and a radio network
installed to link all operating units.
(f) Technical assistance. The technical assistance available to
project farmers would be greatly expanded.
(g) Equipment. Additional equipment for operation and maintenance
purposes would be purchased.
4.03      Annex 4 gives details of the facilities that now exist, the work
to be accomplished under the project, and other alternatives considered as
a means to increase the water supply.
Construction Schedule
4.04      All works are scheduled to be completed in seven years, by about
June 30, 1982. Initial work would concentrate on lining the main canals.
Where canals can be taken out of service for at least a six-month period,
reshaping and lining would be done on the existing alignment. Where ser-
vice cannot be interrupted for long periods, a parallel canal would be
constructed and lined, with appropriate connections made to the existing
system. Where irrigation cannot be interrupted for long periods and where
right-of-way considerations dictate using the existing alignment, lining
would be placed with the minimum amount of reshaping during brief periods
of no service, even if the most desirable canal section could not thereby
be achieved. A construction schedule is given in Annex 5.
4.05      Since all sections of the main canals do not have the same leakage
characteristics, it would be necessary to determine the magnitude of losses
for each section to insure that lining was justified before work was under-
taken. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from Government that
it would not issue tender documents for lining sections of the main canals



- 11 -
with a capacity greater than 50 m /sec until studies on that particular
section, based on infiltration tests and water balance analyses, had been
conducted, and the findings indicated water losses sufficient to justify the
work.
4.06      Improvements to the irrigation distribution system, drains, roads
and land leveling would be done by irrigation blocks. When a block was
scheduled for rehabilitation, no irrigation service would be provided to it
during the second crop season so that operations could be carried out under
dry conditions. There is not enough water at present to irrigate all lands
in the districts during the second season so the available water would be
utilized on blocks not being rehabilitated.
Water Supply, Requirements, and Utilization
4.07      Use of water by Mexico from the Rio Bravo and its tributaries must
be consistent with the provisions of the Treaty of 1944 between Mexico and
the United States. The treaty sets out the rules governing the respective
uses by the two countries. Annex 6 provides a more complete description of
the provisions of the treaty, the water available to Mexico under the treaty,
the requirements for irrigation water, and the utilization of the supply to
meet the requirements.
4.08      Neither country's share of the international water would be affected
by the proposed project works since the total quantity available would remain
the same as it was before the project. Nor would the quality of water supplied
to either country be affected as drain water from the two districts would go
directly to the Gulf of Mexico instead of to the river. Project works would,
however, allow more efficient use of Mexico's share of the water. Records of
diversions and use indicate that only about 28% of the water available for
diversion is effectively used at present, the balance being lost in conveyance
to the farm and in subsequent inefficient use on the farm. By lining the
canals, properly preparing farms for irrigation by land leveling, and pro-
viding technical assistance to farmers to improve their irrigation practices,
the project would increase this efficiency to around 57%, thus doubling the
effective use of irrigation water. This level of efficiency has been achieved
in other highly developed irrigation districts in Mexico.
4.09      Studies discussed in Annex 6 indicate that, for virtually the same
annual cropped area with and without the project, 30 to 40% of the crop
water needs are met by precipitation. Under present overall efficiencies,
irrigation increases the water available by about 25% of the water needs to
an effective supply of about 60% of the crop's theoretical needs. With the
project, about 85 to 100% of such needs would be met.
4.10      The 1944 treaty (para 4.07) does not preclude either country from
constructing additional water use projects in the Bravo Basin but the de-
pletion of water available to the Bravo caused by such developments reflects
in the share credited to the country making the development. Thus, any
additional water-depleting developments in Mexico made on the Rio Bravo or



- 12 -
its tributaries would reflect in a diminution of the water available for use
by the proposed project. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from
the Govermment that it would not allow any future developments in the Bravo
Basin that would deplete the supply to the project without the specific con-
currence of the Bank.
Status of Engineering
4.11      Preliminary designs adequate for estimating project costs have been
made for all project features, but final designs and tender documents would
have to be prepared for all works prior to inviting bids for construction.
In addition, the justification for lining specific sections of the main canals
would have to be finalized (para 4.05).
Cost Estimates
4.12      Project cost estimates are detailed in Annex 7 and are summarized
below:
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign
-- Mex$ Millions  -----       --- US$ Millions  -----   Exchange
Physical Works
Canals                     668        445   1,113       53.4      35.6      89.0      40
Drains                      125        83      208       10.0      6.6      16.6      40
Roads                       64         43      107        5.1      3.4       8.5      40
Staff Houses                 10         1       11       0.8        -        0.8       10
Land Leveling               200       200      400       16.0     16.0      32.0      50
Total W4orks              1,067       772   1,839        85.3     61.6    146.9       42
Materials                   182         -      182       14.6       -       14.6       0
O+M Equipment                18        26       44        1.4      2.1       3.5      60
Radio Telephone               2         4        6        0.2      0.3       0.5      60
Engineering and Adminis-
tration                  263          -      263      21.0        -       21.0       0
Rights of Way               39          -       39       3.2        -        3.2       0
Technical Assistance        310         -      310      24.8        -       24.8       0
Base Cost of Project    1,881         802   2,683      150.5    64.0       214.5      30
Contingencies
Physical                    118        85      203        9.4     6.8       16.2      42
Price                     1,153       768   1,921        92.4    61.3      153.7      40
Total Project Costs      3,152      1,655   4,807      252.3   132.1       384.4      34
4.13      Quantities of work items were estimated on the basis of the pre-
liminary designs. Unit costs were based on information provided by the
Construction Division of SRH, which maintains a current list of unit prices
for all categories of work by geographical area, and represent costs expected



- 13 -
to prevail during the six-month period starting November 1974. Physical con-
tingencies have been estimated on the basis of 10% of the cost of project
works, plus materials such as cement and steel. Mexico adjusted wage scales
and material prices in September 1974, which increased unit costs about 21%
over those in effect in 1973 and this increase is reflected in the unit costs
used. While it is not possible to accurately project future price contin-
gencies over the seven-year construction period, an allowance for a 16% in-
crease for 1975, 14% in 1976, 12% annually in 1977-79 and 10% in 1980-82 has
been applied on both local and foreign costs. The exchange rate is assumed
to remain at its 1974 level. The price increase has been applied to all
elements included in the cost estimate. The price contingency is large as
a result of the long construction period envisioned. The foreign exchange
component of civil works has been estimated on the basis of depreciation of
heavy equipment considered appropriate and used during the period of construction.
Financing
4.14      The proposed Bank loan of US$150 million would finance (see table
page 15) the total foreign exchange component of base costs, (less that of the
items supplied in bulk by SRH) plus a proportionate share of physical and
price contingencies ($129 million), and 50% of the technical assistance pro-
gram (US$21 million). The balance would be financed under Government budget
to SRH. The loan would be made for 25 years, with seven years' grace, at the
current Bank rate of interest to Nacional Financiera, S.A., the Government
agency in charge of handling loans and credits. The United Mexican States
would be the guarantor of the loan and would carry the foreign exchange risk.
The closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1982.
Procurement
4.15       Contracts for the principal features of construction work would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines for procurement. Mexico has a well developed and competent
contracting industry, capable of doing all types of civil works at competi-
tive prices, and only rarely is a bid submitted from a non-Mexican firm.
However, in order to facilitate the participation of international contrac-
tors, civil works would, insofar as possible, be grouped into contracts
having a minimum value of Mex$ 20 million (US$1.6 million). An assurance
to this effect was given during negotiations.
4.16      In other projects, SRH has organized local groups of farmers into
partnerships to contract land leveling on small tracts up to 100 ha in size,
using their own farm machinery. The work provides income to the farmers
pending completion of the rehabilitation work, but, more importantly, it
trains them in proper leveling procedures and prepares them to maintain
their fields in proper condition for irrigation. SRH provides engineering
services and supervises such contracts. Since there is already proven merit
in this procedure, the Government would award contracts for such activity
under its standard procedures without international bidding. Also, to
expedite the construction of civil works to be performed under international
bidding, small jobs, which, because of timing or nature of the work, could



- 14 -
be better handled if they were not included in the major contracts, would
be contracted out under ordinary Government procedures, which are suitable to
the Bank, up to a maximum value per contract of Mex$ 2 million. The aggregate
amount of such contracts, however, would not exceed Mex$ 100 million.
4.17      SRH normally lets contracts under local bidding procedures for
the supply, in bulk, of building materials such as cement and reinforcing
steel. It then furnishes such items to civil works contractors, and their
cost is not included in the bids submitted by the contractors. However,
other items such as steel shapes and fabricated gates are included in the
civil works contracts on a furnish and install basis and their cost is
included in the contractor's bid and paid for as a part of the civil works
contract. Annex 8 gives further details on materials and equipment to be
acquired by SRH under local bidding. The items to be financed under the
loan would exclude equipment and materials purchased under local bidding,
but would include payments to civil works contractors on bids let under
international procedures, plus the payments for land leveling under con-
tracts let under local bidding procedures, and for the small jobs noted in
paragraph 4.16.
Expenditure Schedule
4.18      Annex 9 gives a schedule of estimated annual expenditures for
project implementation.
Disbursements
4.19      Loan categories, amounts and basis for disbursement are as follows:
Category                            Total       Loan           Basis for
Cost      Amount        Disbursement
US$ Millions
I.  Civil Works
Let under ICB       106.9
Small local
contracts           8.0                          45% of payment
Land leveling        32.0                          to contractors
Price contingen-
cies              106.5   253.4    114
II.  Technical Assistance                                50% of total
Base price           24.8                          cost as
Price contingencies 18.0    42.8       21          certified by
SRH
III.  Unallocated                             15
Total                                 150



- 15 -
In the event of higher costs in the first two categories, funds would be
shifted from the unallocated category to increase amounts as appropriate.
Any funds remaining at the close of disbursement would be cancelled.  An
estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 10.
Accounts and Auditing
4.20      SRH would maintain separate project accounts to reflect the finan-
cial situation of the project. Such accounts are subject to internal audits
conducted by the Controller General of SRH and by the Direccion de Vigilancia
de Valores y Fondos of the Secretaria de Hacienda. During negotiations,
assurances were given that the Government would cause annual audits to be
made and promptly make available to the Bank copies of the project accounts
as audited under its laws and furnish such other pertinent data as the Bank
may reasonably request.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Administration
5.01      The project would be administered by SRH through its normal channels,
with the North Tamaulipas Zone office having direct field responsibility for
constructing, operating and maintaining the completed project and providing
technical services to farmers. (Chart 7434(R) shows the organization of the
Mexico City headquarters of SRH, while Chart 9455 illustrates the organization
of the North Tamaulipas Zone office.) The headquarters office in Mexico City
would prepare and issue the final designs and tender documents. Field super-
vision of construction activities would be the direct responsibility of the
Construction Division of the North Tamaulipas Zone office. This Division,
however, would be greatly expanded in order to collect all design data, assist
in preparing designs and tender documents and supervise construction. Expe-
rienced SRH personnel would be transferred from other offices to fill key
positions.
Operation and Maintenance
5.02      While the Gerente General of the North Tamaulipas Zone office has
overall responsibility for operation and maintenance activities, the direct
responsibility rests with the District Managers of the two irrigation districts.
Both districts are now staffed with competent personnel and are well equipped
to carry out these functions. Annex 11 provides a more complete description
of the operation and maintenance arrangements in the two districts. It also
gives annual costs of operation and maintenance for the period 1969 through 1975
and compares them with the revenues received from the farmers through charges
for irrigation service. Also shown is a budget for operation and maintenance
costs under project conditions, which totals Mex$ 80.4 million per year (US$6.4
million). It is anticipated that operating costs in the future would be the
same with or without the project. Maintenance costs would decrease on the



- 16 -
irrigation system but this would be offset by an increase in costs for the
enlarged drainage system. Equipment required for maintanance would change
slightly in composition but have about the same total value as at present.
Technical Assistance
5.03      Mexico has many schools and institutions devoted to agricultural
education and training. These are considered adequate and no special additional
training comDonent is included in the project.  In addition to PLAMEPA's ongoing
irrigation extension activities, SRH would establish a technical assistance
program, over a seven-year period, consisting of agricultural research and ex-
tension services to ensure good farming practices and to encourage crop diver-
sification, including livestock production. This program would provide the
following incremental staff: 32 researchers, 32 research assistants, and
174 subprofessionals for the research program, and 66 professionals, 180 agro-
technicians, 67 rural educators and 12 administrative personnel. This staff
would increase technical know how of the farmers to the level necessary to
achieve the average yields assumed under the project and would strengthen SAG's
ongoing national programs by expanding and improving research and extension pro-
grams in the project area. After the seven year project investment period, this
staff would be progressively slowly reduced to a level consistent with efficient
long-term operation of the district. The project would also provide the necessary
operational buildings and vehicles for the program. SAG specialized agencies for
agricultural research (INIA), livestock research (INIP) and agricultural extension
(DGEA), under agreement with SRH, would be responsible for the implementation of
the program. An assurance was received from Government that within six months of
loan signing, agreements, satisfactorv to the Bank, would be made with the appro-
priate national agricultural research and extension institutions. These agree-
ments would specify the staff requirements during the project and the subsequent
phasing out period. The estimated cost of the initial program at today's
prices is Mex$ 310.0 million (US$24.8 million). Annex 12 gives a comprehensive
discussion on agricultural training, research, and extension as carried out
within Mexico and in the project area.
Credit
5.04      Under the project, gross production value is expected to reach
Mex$ 3 billion, which points to short-term credit needs of at least Mex$ 1
billion. Of this, about one-fourth would be needed by ejidatarios, and some
Mex$ 200 million of long-term credit would be required for the anticipated
livestock operation. Consequently, assurances were obtained that Government
would take all measures necessary to ensure that credit,'fertilizers and
improved seeds would be made available in the Project area in the quantities
and at the time required.



- 17 -
VI. PRODUCTION, FARMERS' INCOME, WATER CHARGES, AND MARKETS
Production
6.01      The project would substantially increase the yields of crops in
both districts by providing a more adequate water supply. At present, two
irrigated cropping seasons are practiced, with the main season extending from
January to June and the second season from July to December. In general, the
entire cultivated area is planted during the first season. The Comite Directivo
of each District normally meets in May of each year to decide the total area
to which irrigation water will be supplied for the late season crop, taking
into account the amount of water remaining in storage for each district and
the prospects of obtaining additional water. Usually only about 20% of the
area is irrigated in the second season. Since the late season corresponds
with the period of normally higher rainfall, some farmers may plant a second
crop although they have no assurance of being able to obtain irrigation water.
Because of the normally short water supply and the fact that the full water
requirements are not met, yields in both cropping seasons are generallv low.
6.02      With the project, the full crop water requirements could be met for
one crop on all the irrigated area in normal years. For purposes of evalua-
tion of the benefits of the project, it has therefore been assumed that all
the available water supply would be used on one crop under both with and with-
out project conditions. The increase in production envisaged is then a func-
tion of the better water supply for the main crop and the better farm practices
made possible by proper land preparation and technical assistance during both
cropping seasons.
6.03      Annex 13 gives details on historic production values, production
costs by crops and the net value of production with and without the project.
The without project condition is taken as the weighted average of historical
production for the years 1970-74. Analysis indicates that the net value of -
production would increase from Mex$ 547 million (US$43.7 million) annually
to Mex$ 1,677 million (US$133 million) under the project. Full development
should be reached in about the fifth year after all works were complete or
in the twelfth year of project implementation.
Income to Farmers
6.04      Annex 14 gives examples of the financial position of representative
farmers both with and without the project. Two examples' are given for ejidal
farms of 10 ha each (reflecting different cropping patterns), one for an
average small private landowner of 22 ha and one for a typical colono having
13 ha. The results are summarized as follows:



- 18 -
Net Income
Without Project                     With Project
Type of Farm              Total    Per Ha                      Total      Per Ha
--------------------- Mex$ -----------------------
10 ha Ejido               20,900   2,090                       52,670    5,267
10 ha Ejido               20,900   2,090                       48,820    4,882
22 ha Small holders       37,400   1,700                       94,600    4,300
1t ha Colono              28,700   2,200                       76,830    5,910
These figures are the residue after all taxes, insurance, interest and pro-
duction costs (including labor) have been paid. They also include a small
component for income earned off the farm, since the typical project farmer
does work for other farmers within the project or for enterprises in the urban
areas. They do not include water charges.
Water Charges
6.05      SRH is at present levying a flat charge of Mex$ 150 per ha per year
for irrigation service in both districts. This amount was collected in 1974
and represents an increase over the level of Mex$ 100 collected in the period
1969 through 1973 (Annex 11).  The objective of the Government has been to set
the charge at a high enough level to offset the annual costs of operation and
maintenance. The present levy nearly accomplished this objective through 1972
but, due to inflationary pressures, costs increased faster than the level of
charges could be adjusted, and, for 1973 and 1974, even with the higher levy
for 1974, operating deficits were incurred which had to be financed by Govern-
ment budgetary allotments. SRH has stated that they will increase the levy,
starting in October 1975, to a level sufficient to offset operation and
maintenance costs.
6.06      The new Federal Water Law of 1971 sets out the conditions which new
irrigation districts must follow. However, SRH is starting to apply the pro-
visions of that law as they concern water charges to existing irrigation dis-
tricts in Mexico. This law requires SRH, with the advice of the Ministry of
Agrarian Reform and the Comite Directivo of the individual irrigation district,
to carry out socio-economic studies to determine appropriate charges for the
services rendered in each irrigation district. W4ater rates must take into
account the recoverable portion of the capital costs of the project and the
annual recurrent costs of administration, operation and maintenance. Govern-
ment has recently indicated its intentions to change under future regulations
from an area to a volumetric charge. The law requires that the water rates
be reviewed periodically on the basis of data from socio-economic studies.
The law states that failure to pay charges is cause for suspending service
until payments are up to date. Compulsory action for collection of outstand-
ing charges may be taken.
6 07      Under the project, SRH, in conjunction with other agencies, would
carry out the required socio-economic studies and set charges sufficient to
cver all operation and maintenance costs and as much of the capital invest-
ment as appeared reasonable in light of the socio-economic studies. The



- 19 -
announced intention of the Government is to raise the water charges throughout
the country and to attempt to recover the capital investments in irrigation
projects in as short a time as possible. During negotiations, an assurance
was given that the Government would: (1) carry out a socio-economic study
in each irrigation unit as soon as the works are completed in that unit to
determine the ability of water users to pay for the cost of irrigation and
that all such socio-economic studies would be completed by not later than
June 30, 1982 or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Government
and the Bank; (2) periodically review such study with a view to revising such
charges; (3) collect such charges as would be necessary to recover all oper-
ation and maintenance costs of the irrigation facilities and, starting not
later than five months after completion of the socio-economic studies, as
much as practicable of the investment cost giving due regard to the ability
of the water users to pay and the need to maintain an incentive to make the
best use of land and water; and, (4) give the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to comment on the conclusions and recommendations of the socio-economic
studies.
6.08      The new Federal Water Law was passed in December 1971 and published
in the official diary in January 1972, but regulations concerning implementa-
tion of the law have not yet been issued. During negotiations, an assurance
was given that the regulations required to establish and collect water charges
would be issued within seven months of signing the agreement.
Repayment of Investment Costs
6.09      The assurance outlined in paragraph 6.07 would require that water
users pay all operation and maintenance costs, estimated to average about
Mex$ 300 per ha per year, and as much as practicable of the investment cost,
with due regard to ability of the water users to pay. Mexican law allows
water charges to be varied on the basis of area, volume of water or crops but
requires that the same basis be applied to all users. The actual charges
would be finally determined only after completion of the detailed socio-
economic studies as prescribed by law. Furthermore, the degree of recovery
of the project investment costs cannot be estimated with accuracy until the
studies are completed and the ability to pay established. The ability to pay
towards investment depends on (a) the farmer's net income after meeting all
crop production costs, taxes and project operation and maintenance charges,
less (b) the amount he needs to cover his family living costs (approximately
Mex$ 20,000 per year), and (c) have a reasonable incentive to continue irri-
gated farming. Items under (a) and (b) can be calculated, but those under
(c) are matters of judgment. The Government has indicated its intention to
recover investment costs, if possible, in not over 25 years and to review
and update the pertinent socio-economic studies every two years.
6.10      The net income per ejidatario and his family shown in paragraph 6.04
for the without project condition barely reaches the subsistence requirement.
Under the project, the first call for payment would be the operation and
maintenance costs, estimated at Mex$ 300 per ha. This would leave about
Mes$ 4,540 net per ha available for raising the standard of living of the
water users and for paying a water charge to be applied to amortization of



- 20 -
project investment costs. To recover the investment cost for project infra-
structure of approximately Mex$ 2,500 million in ]974 prices, over a total
period of 25 years, an investment charge of Mex$ 550 per ha would need to be
assessed. If project costs and revenues are discounted at ]0% (the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Mexico), these charges would recover 30% of
investment costs. Including incremental taxes--in the form of lump sum pay-
ment after completion of works, an annual land tax surcharge and additional
production taxes--in the recovery charges, this percentage increases to 50.
If, as an indicative upper limit, it is assumed that 25 percent of the incre-
mental income from the project was levied as water charges, the respective
recovery index would be 45 percent excluding and 70 percent including incre-
mental government revenues.
Markets
6.11      The proposed cropping pattern is consistent with market prospects.
It includes commodities in which Mexico faces growing deficits such as, milk,
oil seeds, grains, and traditional exports such as cotton, live cattle and
vegetables. The project represents Mexico's most important single effort to
narrow a projected supply/demand gap. Also, the project is sufficiently
versatile to allow production to be altered to meet changing demand.
6.12      No important problems are expected with regard to the marketing
infrastructure in the project area. Storage capacity is currently fully
utilized for corn and sorghum; with crop diversification under the project,
the existing capacity should be sufficient for the smaller quantities of
crops requiring storage. Processing capacity for oil seeds, cotton and milk
are currently under-utilized; at full development, however, additional facili-
ties for cotton and milk would be required and can be expected to be added
by the private sector if and when needed. Annex 15 describes the market and
marketing prospects of the project.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      At full development, about 12 years after the start of the project,
the project's net value of production, valued at farmgate prices at end 1974,
would reach Mex$ 1.7 billion (US$134 million) per annum, compared to Mex8 0.5
billion (US$44 million) under future conditions without the project. The
investment involved in the project would amount to some Mex$ 2.68 billion
(US$214 million) in end-1974 prices, 1/ virtually all of which would be in
irrigation facilities. With adequate maintenance, the useful life of those
1/   Excluding physical and price contingencies.



- 21 -
facilities would be indefinite, but for calculation of the project's economic
return, it has been assumed at 40 years. Over this period, the economic rate
of return would be about 19%.
7.02      The sensitivity of the project's economic justification to devia-
tions from anticipated circumstances has been considered as follows:
Alternative Assumption                           Economic Rate of Return
(a) Irrigation investment costs increased by
an additional 10% 1/                               18,%
(b) Two-year time lag in build-up of benefits
instead of one year                               17%
(c)  Benefits lowered by 20%                                16%
(d) Farm labor costs valued at official minimum
wage, instead of being shadow-priced
at 70%                                            1PR
(e)  Combination of (a), (b) and (c)                        14%
The above-mentioned results show that, within a reasonable range of circun-
stances, there is no risk of not achieving an acceptable rate of return.
Annex 16 gives details on the inputs used for the rate of return calculations.
7.03      About 19,000 farm families would benefit from the project, of which
ejidatarios and private owners would each represent 40% and the rest would be
colonos (settlers).
7.04      The project would generate about 17,000 man-years of additional
employment annually. The annual net of tax income of the average ejidatario
farm would increase from about Mex$ 20,000 to Mex$ 50,000 at full development,
while the expected corresponding increase for the average private farm would
be from Mex$ 30,000 to Mex$ 95,000.
7.05      Revenues from federal and state taxes would increase from Mex$ 38
million under without project conditions to Miex$ 74 million with the project.
7.06      Additional employment and value-added resulting from crop marketing
and processing and other related activities, as well as secondarv benefits
due to the acceleration of the general economic activity in the region as a
result of the project construction and operation, were not quantified, and,
consequently, have not been included in the economic analysis. They would,
however, be substantial.
1/   Irrigation investment costs used in the economic analysis already
include 10% physical contingencies.



- 22 -
7.07      There are no known water-borne diseases such as bilharzia in the
project areas. Increased use of fertilizers and pesticides as part of the
farming operation could result in some increase of residual quantities of
such chemicals in downstream flows, but it is believed that these would not
exceed acceptable limits.
VIII. RECOITENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were given by Government that it
would:
(a) not issue tender documents for lining a section of main
canal until studies on that particular section had been con-
ducted and findings indicat-ed water losses sufficient to
justify the work (para 4.05);
(b) not allow any future developments to be made in the Bravo
Basin that would deplete the water supply to the project
without the specific concurrence of the Bank (para 4.10);
(c) group civil works, insofar as possible, into contracts having
a minimum value of Mex$ 20 million (US$1.6 million) (para 4.15);
(d) make promptly available to the Bank all project accounts as
audited under its laws and furnish such other pertinent
information as the Bank may reasonably request (para 4.20);
(e) SRH would complete arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
with its national agricultural research and extension
agencies within six months of loan signing to provide a
technical assistance program for farmers to ensure good
farming practices and encourage crop diversification,
including livestock production (para 5.03);
(f) make available promptly the credit needs of the project as
they are required (para 5.04);
(g) assess and collect water charges sufficient to pay total
operation and maintenance costs plus as much as practicable
of project investment costs on the basis of the ability
of water users to pay and the need to maintain an incentive to
make best use of land and water; carry out the socio-economic
studies by June 30, 1982 or at a later date agreed with the
Bank; review such studies periodically for possible revision
of charges; and give the Bank an opportunity to comment on
conclusions and recommendations of such studies as each is
completed (para 6.07); and



- 23 -
(h)  issue the regulations required to establish and collect
water charges within seven months of signing the agreement
(para 6.08).
8.02      With the above assurances, the project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$150 million for a term of 25 years, including a seven-year grace period.
April 15, 1975






ANNEX I
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REI1ABILITATION PROJECT
Soils and Topography
1.        The soils of the project area are predominantly medium to heavy
alluvial deposits. Their parent materials are limestone and sandstone.
Soils are generally deep, with good internal drainage and a low level of
salinity. They are fertile and well adapted to cultivation of a wide
range of crops. There are areas, however, where soils present deficien-
cies due to heavy texture, poor structure, salinity and impeded drainage.
Approximately 25% of the Bajo Rio Bravo area and 13% of the Bajo Rio San Juan
area are affected by various degrees of salinity and poor internal drain-
age.
2.        Project lands lie between 5 m and 65 m above the sea level, with
a very gentle slope toward the sea. The topography is predominantly flat,
but the relief in some areas is variably undulating and approximately 70%
of the project area requires slight to moderate land leveling for optimum
water usage. Because of the topography and soil characteristics, surface
drainage is relatively slow.  In general, the water table remains deep most
of the year, but the lowest areas are inundated during heavy rains, or when
hurricane conditions are present and high water tables remain in other areas
due to excess irrigation water or seepage from canals and reservoirs.
Approximately 40% of the project area is affected by relatively high water
tables.
3.        Soil studies in the project area include a detailed soil survey on
a scale of 1:5,000 in the Bajo Rio San Juan area (1936-42); two semi-detailed
soil surveys on scales of 1:10,000 and 1:20,000 in the Bajo Rio Bravo area
(1940-44); extensive soil texture and salinity analyses during 1964-68 and
1971; monthly water table determinations since 1971; and a detailed study
of nine representative soil profiles in 1973. Taking into account such data,
and on the basis of U.S. Bureau of Reclamation guidelines, the project lands
are classified as follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Land Class      Bajo Rio San Juan      Bajo Rio Bravo       Total     Percentage
---- (ha) -------------                                    (%)
1               8,882                 3,934           12,816          5
2             31,078                115,694          146,772         52
3              12,246                55,211           67,457         24
4              18,396                35,523           53,919         19
Total          70,602               210,362          280,964        100
Percentage         25                    75               100
4.        The soil texture and salinity analyses carried out between 1964
and 1968 and again in 1971 showed the beneficial effects of Rehabilitation
Loan No. 336-ME which was completed in 1971. Under that loan, certain sec-
tions of canal were lined and some 2,000 km of drains were constructed or
improved. As a result large areas of lands affected with various degrees
of salinity and/or alkalinity were reclaimed -- 46,116 ha in the Bajo Rio
Bravo District and 7,265 ha in the Bajo Rio San Juan District. The extent of
the affected areas is shown below:
Bajo Rio
San Juan          Bajo Rio Bravo
(ha)     (%)      (ha)            (%)
Gross Areas
Total                         71,356    100      238,740         100
Affected 1/
1964                        n.a.      -       108,168          45
1966                      16,637      23       76,187          32
1967                      16,075      22       78,737          33
1968                       9,372      13       62,052          26
1/  Soils with more than 3 mmhos/cm EC of saturation extract or
more than 10% exchangeable sodium.
5.        Despite the above mentioned works, over 40% of the project area
is still affected by one or more deficiencies of soil, topography or drain-
age. However, the main deficiencies are related to soil salinity and drain-
age, as stated in paragraphs 1 and 2 above. Class 3 lands (24% of the area)
are at present cultivated, but their productivity is low. With the project,



ANNEX 1
Page 3
these lands would easily be improved to higher categories and would be suit-
able for cultivating a wide variety of crops such as cotton, corn, sorghum,
wheat, beans, vegetables, and the like. Class 4 lands (19% of the area)
are, in general, more severely affected by salinity and drainage problems.
Some are cultivated but yields are very low, and others are not used at all
at present. With the project, these lands would all become irrigable, but
certain basic limitations would remain because salinity and drainage prob-
lems are associated with flat, level lands and heavy textured soils. Class
4 lands could however be utilized for permanent pastures.
January 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Climatic Data
1.        The project is located between parallels 25°30' and 26°30' N and
is thus subject to seasonal variations in temperature and daylight hours.
The climate is semi-tropical.
Rainfall
2.        Table 1 gives monthly rainfall records for a representative sta-
tion of the Bajo Rio Bravo District and Table 2 for the Bajo Rio San Juan
District. Comparison of the two indicates considerable disparity, both by
months and by years. The annual averages for the period of record shown
are 577 mm for Bajo Rio Bravo and 641 mm for Bajo Rio San Juan, with the
extremes ranging from 241 mm to 1,056 mm. Rainfall can be expected in any
month but it is apt to be highest in September, with the period November
through April the driest.  Hurrieanes occasionally reach the project area
and accoulnt for the periods of maximum rainfall.  Major storms, such as
"Beulah" in September 1967, caused widespread flooding in the project area.
Temperature
3.        Table 3 shows mean monthly temperatures at a representative sta-
tion in each of the two districts. Absolute maximum is 44°C in July or
August and minimum -10'C in December or January. There are, on average,
about five days per year when frosts are experienced.
Evaporation, Effective Precipitation and Evapotranspiration
4.        Table 4 gives data for the two districts on pan evaporation from
a Class A Weather Bureau pan. Effective precipitation is shown as 80% of
the mean monthly precipitation. The mean evapotranspiration is approximated
as 70% of the pan evaporation. The deficiency is shown as the difference
between the mean evapotranspiration and effective precipitation. This is
the quantity of water which would have to be artificially supplied to sup-
plement the rainfall if the evapotranspiration requirements are to be met.
A deficiency occurs, on average, each month of the year and totals about
1,000 mm for the year. This reflects the approximate irrigation water re-
quirement for a crop growing all 12 months of the year.
January 1975



MEXICO
EMBJO EUQBR   ANIlBAJO EIO SAN JUAM REHABILITATIOI- PROJECT
8                             - Rainfall Data -- Rio Bra-vo B.R.B-l-l Station), m/month
YEAR   JAN.   FEB.   MAR.   APR.   MAY    JUNE   JULY    AUG.  SEPT.   OCT.   NOV.   DEC. TOTAL
1960  25.4   38.7   14.2   12.3   10.9   16.3   10.4   90.3  101.3   44.6   47.2   58.8  470.4
~1961   26.8    4.5    o.5   39.8   18.8   60.9    0.3   75.9  163.9    9.4   32.1                  6.7  439.6
4tr-   1962   16.0    1.2   45.3   23.9    7.5   51.7            0   27.4   63.3   44.3    8.1    56.8  345.5
1963   6.2   13.1    0.5    1.8   74.4   54.0   45.0    0.8  159.5   38.4   18.2   56.4  468.3
1964   10.3   15.4    7.3   19.4  147.3   35.4    1.6    1.5   51.3   15.5   30.2   22.3  357.5
1965    0.8   30.2   26.5   27.9  114.4    4.8    4.8    4.3  192.3   31.0   33.8  111.1   581.9
1966   60.2   34.5   18.7   70.4  192.6  182.3   10.1          7.0   12.2  103.8    0.5          0  692.3
1967   43.5   13.7    8.0   75.0   27.0   23.6   41.5  162.0  292.9   37.0   93.5   21.5  839.2
1968   40.0   19.5   23.5   59.2   95.8   68.0   30.0   132.5  58.5   80.5   10.0              2.4  619.9
1969    6.3   24.3   17.2   15.9   48.8   60.0   36.5  127.9   17.4   39.0   34.6   13.9  441.8
1970  73.2   25.4    5.2   35.0  120.9  112.6   45.7   40.3  138.7   31.1              3.0    2.1   633.2
1971    7.5   16.5       0   11.7   54.0   45.5   31.5   60.8  206.3  145.9    1.7    17.5  598.9
1972   22.5   19.8   18.8   68.5   97.4   90.7   86.2   10.7   56.1            3.7   39.9      3.0  527.3
1973   88.9   97.1    2.2    9.1   57.6  250.0    9.8   96.3  228.4  173.9               0   43.0 1,056.3
Average  31      25      14      34      76      76      25      60     124      57      25      30     577
I93 
X0 B
(D S



MEXICO
BAJO PTO PRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN:JULAN  IEHABIITATIONT PROJECT
Rainfall DUta -- Son Juan ( J-2-lb Station), mm/month
YEAR  JAN.  FEB.   MAR.   APR.   MAY    JUNE    JULY    AUG.   SEPT.  OCT.   NOV.   DEC.    TOTAL
1953    0.0    19.3    13.0   11.0      6.0     0.0      0.0    90.5     8.0    66.5    10.0    12.0   241.3
1954    4.0     0.0     7.5  138.0   66.0   82.5   10.5    82.5  216.5           0.0    40.5      0.0   648.0
1955   26.0   21.5      3.5     0.0    20.5     0.0   86.5   86.5  241.5    65.0    31.0          0.0   581.5
1956    0.0   12.5      3.0   69.5      9.0  101.5   11.0        1.0   74.0   32.0    10.5        5.5   329.5
1957    0.0   50.0    47.5   37.0   40.0   178.0         0.0     9.5   28.5      2.0    73.5    52.0   518.0
1958  109.5  138.0      8.0     3.5    49.5    45.o   22.5       o.5  260.5   178.5    52.5    28.0  896.0
1959   51.5    57.0     9.5    28.0   88.0   80.5   95.5   42.0    6.0    80.0    25.0            9.5   572.5
1960    6.5    38.0   22.5  122.0   21.5   28.0          2.0   109.0  149.0    67.5    32.0    64.o   662.0
1961   21.5    12.0     0.0   97.0      4.5   139.0   58.5    67.5  240.0    23.0    35.5    10.5   709.0
1962   21.5     0.0   11.0    29.5   23.5  104.0         0.0   35.0   39.0       4.0    36.0    39.0   342.5
1963    4.0    17.0     0.0   23.0  197.5    56.o   50.0    17.0  101.0  133.0    40.0   64.5   703.0
1964    3.5  -40.0      3.0   50.o  220.0    43.0   18.0         o.0   71.0      6.o    16.o    48.5   519.0
1965    6.0    22.0     2.0     1.0    18.5    21.0   61.0   62.5  138.5   24.0    84.0    99.0   539.5
1966  114.0   19.0    24.0   38.0  129.5  143.0   21.5   130.5   35.o   172.0            6.o      0.0   832.5
1967   32.5   23.0    41.0      0.0    48.o   30.0   35.5  150.5  312.5   85.0    37.0    38.0   833.0
1968  110.5  '28.0   28.0   48.0   48.0  133.0    28.6   34.3   62.8    83.0    14.9              6.9   626.0
1969    6.6   66.9    18.7      7.7    80.4    10.3      8.6   171.8  298.5    21.4    40.0       0.0   730.9
1970   80.7    17.3     1.8   42.1    45.3   64.5  100.2    43.4  231.1   114.1          0.4      0.3   741.2
1971    1.1    20.6     0.0   75.4   52.2    86.6   46.2   61.1   332.8   64.0           2.6    27.0  769.6
1972    5.2    23.5   21.4   38.5  174.1   294.9   72.8    68.6  101.3    27.2    23.7            2.4   853.6
1973   83.7  120.2      5.1    11.6  121.9  163.8   19.1    97.4   68.8    59.5    55.4           9.2   815.7
1974  (25.4)   (1.0)  (55.0)  (46.6)  (40.7)  (66.2)  (54.4)  (12.0)  (86.9)                           (387.2)
Average   32.8   35.5    12.9   41.3    69.7    85.9   35.6   64.8  143.6    62.3    31.7    24.8   641.2
I D
(D X



ANNEX 2
Table 3
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Mean Monthly Temperatures
Bajo Rio Bravo    Bajo Rio San Juan
co    F°            C0     F0
January         14    57             15     59
February        16    61             18     64
March            19    66            21     70
April            24    75            26     79
May              26    79            28     82
June            28    82             29     84
July            29    84             31     88
August           29    84            31     88
September       27    81             28     82
October         25    77             24     75
November         20    68            20     68
December        16    61             16     61
January 9, 1975



MEXICO
c-s                        ]3AJO RIO BRAVO AN'lD BAJO RIO SAN JUAIN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Evaporation, Evapotranspiration, Effective Rainfall and Water Deficits
(mm)
Bajo Rio Bravo                                        Bajo Rio San Juan
Effective                                       Effective
Evapo-  Precipi-   Evapotran-                   Evapo-  Precipi-   Evapotran-
tN                  ration  tation 1/  spiration2/ Deficiency       ration  tation 1/  spiration2/ Deficiency
Jan.      95        25         67          42            100       26          70           44
Feb.     111        20         78          58            103       29          72           43
Mar.     179        11        125         114            164        10        115          105
Apr.     224        27        157         130            206       33         144          111
May      253        61        177         116            221       56         155           99
June     275       61         193         132            232       69         162           93
July     320       20         224         204            257       29         180          151
Aug.     299        48        209         161            250       52         175          123
Sept.    221        99        155          56            186      115         130           15
Oct.     175       46         123           77           154       50         108           58
Nov.     119        20         83          63            116        26         81           55
Dec.      90        2)4        63          39             84       20          59           39
2,361      462      1,653        1,192          2,073      513      1,451          936
1/ Effective precipitation = 0.8 total monthly precipitation
2/ Taken as 0.7 of pan evaporation.
H CD
CD



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Land Tenure and Farm Size
1.        There are about 21,390 farm families in the project area, of whom
2,720 (13%) are landless. The remaining 18,670 are either ejidatarios,
private landowners, or settlers (colenos).
2.        The ejido system was officially established as a tenure system by
the Agrarian Reform Law of 1915. The ejido, as the community, is the legal
proprietor of the land, but it cannot transfer, rent, or mortgage it. The
ejido may operate as a communal farr, with the members pooling their land
under arrangements that make them similar to shareholders in a corporation,
or it can elect to parcel its land to members on a pro rata basis, with
each individual working the land separately or in association with other
members. In such cases, individual members pool their input requests to
obtain credit, but do not pool their land. In some ejidos, all three meth-
ods coexist. Thus an individual ejidatario may cultivate his land on his
own, participate in a communal group, or work in association with others
on all or part of his land. However, he cannot mortgage, sell or rent his
land. This prohibition against mortgaging land was the major obstacle to
the ejidatario's access to the main sources of agricultural credit, but with
the creation of the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura,
Ganaderia y Avicultura (FONDO) this obstacle has been removed.
3.        The colonos were settled under a program, now discontinued, for
colonization of federal lands. The individual colono obtains title to his
allotment of land after he has made full payment to the Government under
the colonization agreement. In general, the colonos living in the project
area have discharged their repayment obligation and now have title. They
therefore have the same status as private landowners.
4.        In Mexico, two recent laws -- the Agrarian Reform Law and the
Federal Water Law -- define lands which may be expropriated by the Govern-
ment for agrarian reform purposes. However, the Federal Water Law is ap-
plicable only in new irrigation districts and not in existing districts
which are rehabilitated, such as would be the case under the proposed pro-
ject. The only land affected in the area is that of private landowners who
do not use it or are unable to pay their debts to the Banco Agricola. Such
land is either turned over to existing ejidos or is used to establish new
ones. These transactions, however, involve only small areas.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        The overall land tenure pattern for the project area is shown in
Table 1; the main features of the pattern in districts 25 and 26 are shown
separately in the summary table below: -
Rio Bravo District 25              Rio San Juan District 26
Number        Average                 Number         Average
Area        of          Farm Size Area             of         Farm Size
in Ha   Z Farmers  %    in Ha    in Ha   %    Farmers  %    in Ha
Ejido          59,431  28  6,086  42    9.77    13,385  19    1,356  33         9.87
Private
Landowners   121,225  58  5,874  40   20.64    37,396  53    1,427  35    26.21
Colonos         29,706  14  2,642  18   11.24    19,821  28    1,283  32    15.45
210,362 100 14,602 100   14.41    70,602 100    4,066 100    17.36
On average, ejidatarios command slightly less than 10 ha of irrigable land,
while the colonos have an average of 12.6 ha and the private landowners,
21.7 ha. The average farm size in the area is 15 ha. These figures, how-
ever, provide only the land tenure pattern within the boundaries of the two
districts. Some ejidos also command land outside the districts, estimated
at 20-25% of the area within the district. Because of the low and erratic
rainfall, however, such land is used either for extensive livestock or sor-
ghum production and produces marginal returns. Under the project, these
areas could be used more effectively for such activities as breeding cattle
for subsequent fattening in the project area. Benefits from these surround-
ing lands are indirect rather than direct so they have not been taken into
consideration in assessing project benefits.
6.        Because of the general lack of access to credit and technical
assistance, small landowners, colonos and even ejidatarios, despite the
legal implications (para 2), are resorting to renting out their land or
sharecropping to increase their income. There are various formulas: one
is to rent out the land at Mex$ 500 to Mex$ 1,000 per ha per year;
others involve various sharecropping arrangements under which the farmer
receives between half and one-third of the net income. It is estimated
that, in the area, 37,800 ha, or 13.4% of the land, owned by 12.5% of the
farmers is cropped under one of these systems. Of this area, about 30%
is owned by farmers with less than 10 ha, mainly small landowners (47%),
colonos (36%), and ejidos (17%).
7.        As shown in the following table, the number of agricultural workers
increased by 25% from 1960 to 1970. The number of ejidatarios has grown
commensurately with the growth of the agricultural population, while the
share of small landowners and colonos has decreased proportionately to the
increase in agricultural workers. The changes are the result of the rapid
growth in population.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Movements of the Active Population in Agriculture (%)
1960    1970    Difference
Total                             100.0   100.0         --
Daily workers                       43.1    68.2      +25.1
Ejidatarios                         9.8      9.6       -0.2
Small landholders and colonos      47.1    22.2       -24.9
January 1975



Annex 3
Table 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Land Tenure Pattern
Area                 Number of               Average Area
in Ha        _         Farmers        %     per Farmer in Ha
158,621     56.5         7,301       39.1          21.73
Less than       5.0         2,086      0.7           584        3.1           3.57
5.1- 10.0        17,006       6.1        1,933       10.4           8.80
10.1- 20.0        45,972      16.4         2,721      14.6          16.90
20.1- 50.0        53,818      19.1         1,587        8.5         33.91
50.1-100.0        38,990      13.9           470        2.5         82.96
100.1 or more         7h9       0.3             6         -         12b.83
Ejidatarios                72,816     25.9         7,h42       39.9           9.78
Less than-    5.0           2,903      1.0           810        4.3           3.58
5.1- 10.0        26,148       9.3        3,020       16.2           8.66
10.1- 20.0        42,962      15.3         3,600      19.3          11.93
20.1- 50.0           231       0.1             6        0.1         38.50
50.1-100.0           422       0.2             5         -          84.40
100.1 or more         150        -              1         -         150.00
Settlers                  L9.526      17.6         3,925       21.0          12.62
Less than       5.0           981      0.3           273        1.5           3.60
5.1- 10.0         8,356       3.0           972       5.2           8.60
10.1- 20.0        35,574      12.7        2,h83       13.3          14.33
20.1- 50.0         4,615       1.6           197       1.0         -23.43
50.1-100.0
100.1 or more
TOTAL                    280,963    100.0         18,668      100.0          15.05
Source: SRH District Headquarters (District No. 25 and 26)
January 24, 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AXND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REliABILITATION PROJECT
Project Works
Background
1.        Development of irrigation in the two district areas started shortly
after the turn of the century under a private company that had concessions
to nearly all the lands along the Rio Bravo. After the Mexican Revolution,
and in the 1930s, Government assumed responsibility for flood protection
and constructed the Retamal canal; the three shallow reservoirs of El
Culebron, Cardenas and Palito Blanco; and a flood channel to the coastal
lagoons.  About 20,000 ha were brought under irrigation at that time.
2.        The real development of irrigation did not come until after the
international treaty was concluded between the U.S.A. and lIexico in 1944,
which permitted the construction of the international dam at Falcon and the
diversion dam at Anzalduas. The Bajo Rio Bravo Irrigation District was
officially established in August 1953.
3.        Studies were started in 1927 on a possible irrigation scheme on
the Rio San Juan. Construction of Marte R. Gomez dam was initiated in 1936
and completed in 1946, and the irrigation system was completed in 1954.
The irrigation district was established in April 1939 and modified in July
1952.
4.        In April 1963, a Bank loan was made to Mexico for rehabilitation
and improvement of the irrigation and drainage system of the two districts.
The work was completed in 1971. Most of the construction effort centered
on the following activities 1/:
1/   Supervision Report dated May 31, 1971.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Bajo             Bajo
Item                    Rio Bravo       Rio San Juan        Total
_____________    -----  In-I   ---------------
Drains
Construction of New               739              67              806
Rehabilitation Existing        1,047              345           1,392
Canals
New Canals                         48               0               48
Rehabilitation Existing           153              52             205
Canal Lining                       77             113              191
Approximately Mex$ 315 million (US$25 million) was spent on project works
under this loan, and, although highly beneficial, they solved only a few
of the problems involved in achieving maximum agricultural production in
the project area.
Existing Works
5.        The Bajo Rio San Juan district derives all of its water supply
from the San Juan River, as regulated by Marte R. Gomez reservoir. This
reservoir is formed by two dams, one across the San Juan River and a second
across a low area on the north rim of the reservoir. There are two irri-
gation outlets.  The San Pedro main canal serves the 5,009 ha area on the'
left bank of the San Juan River and has its heading in the north dam, while
the Rode canal, with an initial capacity of 70 m3/sec, serves the 65,593 ha
on the right bank of the San Juan River and heads in the right abutment of
the main dam. Laterals and sub-laterals distribute water to the lands.
The first 25 km of the Rlode canal were lined under Loan 336-ME and 151 km
of the canals and laterals are also lined. Right bank lands are served by
the Morello drain, which originally entered the Rio Bravo just above
Anzalduas dam. However, facilities have been installed so that drain water
can be pumped into a lined bypass channel leading to a draiyn in the Bajo
Rio Bravo District. From there it can be discharged to the Gulf of Mlexico
without adding its salt load to the Rio Bravo.
6.        The Bajo Rio Bravo district obtains its water from the Rio Bravo
and utilizes Mexico's share of the water allocated under the international
treaty. Two storage dams and two diversion dams have been constructed on
the Rio Bravo by the international commission created to jointly serve the
needs of both countries. Amistad Storage reservoir is the-farthest upstream
and is located near Piedras Negras, Mexico. This reservoir, completed and
placed in operation in 1968, serves mainly to augment the storage capacity
of Falcon and reduce the spills from that reservoir. Falcon is the second
of the international storage dams and is located on the Rio Bravo a short
distance above Roma, Texas, and above the confluence of the Rio Alamo with



ANNEX 4
Page 3
the Bravo in Mexico. It was placed in service in 1953. The normal capa-
city for irrigation use by the two countries is 2,590 Mm3. Anzalduas diver-
sion dam (completed about 1956) is about 8 km upstream of the city of Reynosa
and some 178 km downstream of Falcon. This structure serves as the main
diversion point for water used by the Bajo Rio Bravo District. The Anzalduas
main canal heads on the right side of the diversion dam, which also has
headworks on the U.S. side that allow diversions to be made into a flood
bypass channel in the United States.  El Retamal diversion dam is the far-
thest downstream of the international structures and was completed in 1974.
It replaced an existing structure which served as the diversion point for
the original El Retamal canal. Although it is possible under certain flow
conditions to effect diversions from the Rio Bravo into the canal system of
the irrigation district, it is not normally used for that purpose. Its main
function is to serve as a diversion point for flood waters into a bypass
channel on the MIexican side leading to the three shallow reservoirs and a
recently completed floodway discharging into the Laguna Madre.
7.        The irrigation system for the district starts at the Anzalduas
diversion dam where the Anzalduas main canal originates. The initial cap-
acity of this canal is 250 m3/sec to km 19+684. At that point, the El
Culebron lateral takes off with a capacity of 80 m3/sec. The Anzalduas
canal continues, with a capacity of 170 m3/sec, to km 37+600, at which
point the Palito Blanco lateral, with a capacity of 70 n3/sec, starts.
The main canal then continues at 100 m3/sec capacity to km 75+000, where it
drops to 50 m3/sec and ultimately to 20 m3/sec at km 89+000 where it term-
inates. Laterals and sub-laterals serve to distribute the water.
8.        Three shallow reservoirs, Culebron, Cardenas and Palito Blanco,
were constructed as part of the original irrigation system in the 1920s and
have a combined capacity of 264 Mm3. Because of their large areas (high
evaporation losses), shallowness and the contribution they make to ground
water (which aggravates the drainage problem), these reservoirs are not
used for operational purposes any more than necessary. They are mainly in-
tended to serve when rain temporarily reduces the immediate irrigation de-
mand, where water is in transit through the system from Falcon, and when
resumption of irrigation is foreseen in a very short time. In such periods,
the water in transit is stored temporarily until it can be used.
9.        The Rio Bravo District irrigation area is divided into six units.
The first four, totaling 210,362 ha, obtain their water through the Anzalduas
system; the fifth near the city of Rio Bravo, is served by ground water; and
the sixth is supplied by pumps located to draw directly from the Rio Bravo.
Only the first four units are included in the rehabilitation project. Drain-
age from the first four units is collected into four main d-rains, each of
which is extended to an outlet in the Laguna Madre. A fifth main dtain
(drain marginal) is under construction as part of the current betterment
program.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
10.       The main existing infrastructure in the two districts can be
summarized as follows:
Bajo              Bajo
Item                   Rio Bravo        Rio San Juan      Total
Storage Dams, No.                      2                 1              3
Diversion Dams, No.                    2                 -              2
Irrigation System
Main Canals, km                394                225            619
Secondary Canals, km         2,274                850          3,124
Structures, No.              5,0b2              4,173          9,175
Lined Canals, km               (77)              (151)          (228)
Drains
Main Drains, km                334                  -            334
Secondary Drains, km         1,721                703          2,424
Structures, No.              5,730              1,667          7,397
Roads
Paved, km                      310                185            495
Surfaced, km                    54                313            367
Dirt, km                     2,284              1,834          4,118
Structures, No.                414                523            937
Telephone System                1 system          1 system        2 systems
Houses for Ditch Riders, No.        186                 69            255
Project Works
11.       All works to be accomplished under the project would be confined
to irrigation zones.  Nothing would be done on any of the existing storage
or river diversion facilities.
12.       Irrigation System.  It is recognized tiat all reaches of the canal
systems do not have the same leakage characteriitics. Therefore, for the
main canals, the Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRH) will conduct
studies, based on infiltration tests. and'wVater balance analyses, to make
specific findings on the magnitude of losses so that determination can be
made as to whether there is justification for lining the reach. It is
anticipated, from available data, that all of the Rode canal and at least
80% of the Anzalduas canal and main laterals will need lining. However,
since it is not possible at this time to define specifically what parts
can be eliminated, it is assumed for purposes of a cost estimate that all
main canals and main laterals would be concrete lined. All of the sub-
laterals down to a size serving approximately 60-ha blocks would also be



ANNEX 4
Page 5
lined with concrete, the thickness varying between 5 and 10 cm, depending
on the size of the canal. On reaches that could be taken out of service
long enough to allow the work to be done, lining would be carried out on
the existing alignment. In other instances, a new lined canal would be
constructed parallel to the old canal after which the old canal would be
abandoned or reclaimed as irrigable land.
13.       To the extent possible, existing structures would be used after
rehabilitation, but many would need complete reconstruction. A precise
determination of which structures must be rehabilitated and which recon-
structed would be made as details were prepared for each set of tender
documents. Additional structures would be constructed to give virtually
complete control of water and allow measurement of the water deliveries
to all parts of the system.
14.       Drainage System.  The existing drainage system is extensive, but
there are many areas which still experience high water tables of less than
1 m depth. The extent of the areas so affected varies year by year (be-
tween about 40,000 ha to 120,000 ha), primarily depending on the rainfall
pattern for the particular year. Use of subsurface tile drainage is not
contemplated. All new drains would be open types, with depths of at least
2 meters. The criteria for location and design of the additional drains
is based largely on many years of observation of the specific drainage prob-
lems and experience with the existing drainage system.
15.       In general, the main outfall drains leading to the Laguna Madre
are adequate. The one exception is the drain marginal, which is now under
construction parallel to the lower end of the main Anzalduas canal. This
drain will pick up drain water from the extreme southeast portion of the
Bajo Rio San Juan District, storm runoff from the non-irrigated area west
of the Anzalduas canal and water from certain lateral drains of the Bajo
Rio Bravo District and carry it to the Laguna Madre. This main drain is
about 60% complete and work would be finished outside of the project.
Structures as required for inlets and crossings would be built in the new
drains, and measuring stations would also be installed to allow measure-
ment of drain flows.
16.       Roads.  Main roads that are part of the highway system of Mexico
are paved and developed to adequate standards. The secondary and tertiary
roads serving the project areas are located mainly on canal or drain banks
and most are made only of earth, while minor roads serving portions of the
project area are little more than tracks. The earth roads are generally
impassable in wet weather. The project would rebuild or improve roads to
where they would be useable as all-weather roads. Surfacing would be a
gravely caliche material available near Reynosa, and widths would vary
from 4 m to 10 m, depending on their use. Road work would be an integral
part of the canal and drain rehabilitation program.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
17.       Buildings.  The existing buildings used to house canal operating
personnel are old and inadequate. The project would rehabilitate or con-
struct new houses for all personnel required to live in the irrigation
areas.
18.       Communications.  A two-wire telephone system now provides com-
munication to key operating points. This system is getting old and is un-
reliable in bad weather. The project would replace the system with modern
radio communications.
19.       Land Leveling.  The need to level project lands to aid in dis-
tribution of irrigation water has been reviewed and results show that about
two-thirds of the land would require some degree of leveling.
20.       Resume of Quantities.  Table 1 gives estimates of the quantities
of work under the project.
Alternatives Considered
21.       The three main problems of the two districts are an inadequate
water supply, insufficient drainage and poor road network. The project
seeks to correct all these deficiencies. To do this, several alternatives
were considered, primarily related to increasing the water supply. All
were rejected, as discussed below.
22.       Raising Operating Level of Marte R. Gomez Reservoir.  The dam was
originally designed for a gated spillway. However, because construction
was proceeding during the Second World War when steel was difficult to ob-
tain, the spillway was completed using a concrete overflow crest. It has
always been thought that gates could be installed which would then allow a
portion of the dam freeboard, now needed to provide head for operation of
the overflow spillway, to be converted into useful conservation capacity.
The operating level could thus be raised about 3 m, providing about 320 Mm3
of additional space. Temporary flashboards have been installed on the per-
manent concrete crest which effectively utilize 1 m of the potential 3 m
increase.
23.       The existing dam has a maximum height of 49 m.  However, for most
of its length, the height is much less and questions have been raised as
to whether dam construction was adequate to accept another 3 m permanent
water head. This question is still not resolved but is being studied by
SRH's consulting group. However, a review of operating reeords of the
reservoir indicate that the increased capacity would do little to help
supply more water to the Bajo Rio San Juan District. Additional storable
water would occur only in years when the reservoir had spilled, but in such
years, no shortage of water occurs. In any case, the amount of water that
could be carried over from a previous abundant period is so small that the
increase of supply available in critical years would be minimal. For this
reason and because of the questionable structural capability of the dam to
accept the higher head, this work has not been included in the project.



ANNIEX 4
Page 7
24.       Las Blancas Dam on Rio Alamo.  All flows of the Rio Alamo are
allotted to Mexican use under the international treaty. At present there
is no storage reservoir on the stream and the flows enter the Rio Bravo
completely unregulated. The average annual flow is about 110 Mm3 and is
very intermittent. A site has been identified that could provide a capa-
city of 350 Mm3 to regulate the flows, but a study of the times of flow
indicate that the bulk can be utilized as diversions to the Anzulduas canal.
Only the short duration, high flood peak flows could not normally be util-
ized. However, since only between 10 and 20 Mm3 could be reasonably and
dependably added to the Anzalduas canal flows if the Alamo River were
completely regulated, it is concluded that a dam and reservoir would be an
uneconomic investment because of the high construction costs involved.
25.       Lining Materials.  Various types of lining were considered for
the canals, and soil cement in favorable locations was found to be the most
competitive with the concrete lining adopted. However, it appears that only
in isolated cases could the local natural material be used to mix the soil
cement, and, since larger quantities of aggregate would have to be trans-
ported to make the thicker lining required, this alternative was eliminated
as a basis for estimating costs.  This does not completely rule out soil
cement, but it would be considered for use only in those locations where
conditions were highly favorable for preparing it.
January 1975



Annex 4
Table 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Work To Be Done Under Project
Bajo           Bajo
Item                           Unit     Rio Bravo    Rio San Juan    Total
Irrigation System
Lined Canals                        km         2,291            924        3,215
Structures                         No.         2,573           709         3,282
Water Measurement Stations         No.         4,200         1,200         5,4oo
Drainage System 
New Drains                          ign        1,015            253        1,298
Structures                         No.         ,74!1           LL8         l4,189
Drain Irmprovement                 km.           358                         358
Structures                         No.           837            -            837
Flow Measurement Station           No.            50            20            70
Roads
Surfaced                          Ikn         1,829            357         2,186
Reconstruction                     km            295           12L           bi9
Structures                         No.          168             20           188
Houses for Ditch Riders
New Construction                   No.            33            15            L8
I.provement                        No.           ilL            69           183
Communication Systems               Stations        152           101           253
Land Preparation
Leveling                              ha        1hL,300         55,700       200,000



MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN
REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1975                1976                1977                 1978                1979                 1980                 1981                 1982
Calendar Year
Main conduction ca-
nals and roads
Anzalduas  0- 27 Km                        I     -         -    -          -                   -
27 -72--
72 -92                                                                                                   -
- Culebron   0 - 17 Km 
- Retamal   0 - 22m -                                                                                                 -
- Palito Blanco 0 - 23- -                                                                                        - 
- San Pedro 0 - 23
- Rode        25 -194                                                                                            -                              - -       m    -     -
Main drainage ca-
nals and roads
- Colector   0 - 27km                              -   -                -
- Las Blancas 0 - 20
- Guadalupe 0 - 31                                                      - 
Irrigation Units - Secon-
dary and tettiary canals,
drainage, roads and land leveling
Bajo Rio Bravo                                       J                                           -          -    - _
- lrst Unit  59.000 HaI                                                                                                                 I I        T
- 2nd  "    61,000- -                                                                                                           --                                        -
- 3rd   "    54,000
- 4th  ".   36,000-                                                                        -     -    -              -
Bajo Rio San Juan
- 1st & 2nd Units    27,000 Ha                                                              -    -               - _
- 3rd Unit            44,000-                                                                                                                                                            m
Buildings
- Canal-rider's houses                                        _ -  -         _    _    _         -    -        -                                                                                                      '5
World Bank-9426



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Water Availability and Utilization
Treaty of 1944
1.        The project water supply would come from the Rio Bravo and its
tributaries. The Rio Bravo is an international stream which demarcates the
boundary between the United States and Mexico from Ciudad Juarez to its
mouth. To avoid controversy over use of its waters and other streams of
common interest to the two countries, a treaty governing such use was entered
into in 1944 by Mexico and the United States. The provisions as they concern
the Rio Bravo specified that:
(a) The International Boundary Commission established in 1889
would become the International Boundary and Water Commission,
with reaffirmed powers and additional responsibilities granted
to study and construct dams and other works to ensure con-
tinuance of present uses and the development of the greatest
number of feasible projects within the limits of water allot-
ments specified.
(b) The channel of the Rio Bravo can be used by either country
to convey water belonging to it.
(c) Either country could divert water belonging to it and
construct the necessary works for such diversion at any
point on the main channel from Fort Quitman, Texas, to the
Gulf of Mexico.
(d) The Commission shall keep a record of the waters belonging
to each country.
(e) The watersof the Rio Bravo are allotted as follows:
(i) To Mexico
(1) All waters reaching the main channel of the Rio Bravo
from the San Juan and Alamo Rivers;
(2) One-half of the flow in the main channel below the
lowest major international storage dam so far as
the flow is not specifically allocated to either
country;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(3) Two-thirds of the flow reaching the main channel of
the Rio Bravo from the Conchos, San Diego,
San Rodrigo, Escondido and Salado Rivers and
the Las Vacas Arroyo, subject to the rights of
the United States as defined below; and
(4) One-half of all other flows not specifically
allotted under the treaty occurring between Fort
Quitman, Texas, and the lowest international
storage dam.
(ii) To the United States
(1) All waters reaching the main channel of the Rio
Bravo from the Pecos and Devils River, Goodenough
Spring and Alamito, Terlingua, San Felipe and Pinto
creeks;
(2) One-half of the flow in the main channel of the Rio
Bravo below the lowest major international storage
dam so far as the flow is not allocated to either
country;
(3) One-third of the flow reaching the main channel of
the Rio Bravo from the Conchos, San Diego, San Rodrigo,
Escondido and Salado Rivers and the Las Vacas Arroyo,
provided thit this third shall not be less than
431,721 M m  annually as an average in cycles of five
consecutive years; and
(4) One-half of all other flows not specifically allocated
occurring in the main channel between Fort Quitman
and the lowest international storage dam.
2.        The treaty thus gives a basis for accounting for all water flows.
Inflows to the international reservoirs can be credited on a daily or other
time period basis. Releases from storage are charged to the country request-
ing the release, and losses incurred in conveyance or evaporation from
reservoirs are charged to either country in proportion to the water conveyed
or in storage.
3.        The Bajo Rio San Juan District derives its supply from.the wholly
Mexican San Juan River tributary. Therefore, Mexico is entitled to all
flow of this stream, including reuse of return flows from irrigation. On
the other hand, the Bajo Rio Bravo District utilizes water stored in the
international storage dams of Amistad and Falcon, as accounted for under the
treaty, plus flows of the Rio Alamo, any residual flow of the San Juan River,
plus one-half of the gains or losses in the river reach from Falcon to
Anzalduas. Nor is Mexico's share of the international stream all available



ANNEX 6
Page 3
for use on Bajo Rio Bravo as there are three small irrigation districts which
take part of the country's allotment. Their portion is reflected in the
accounting of inflows to the storage reservoir. Additionally, the areas
served by river pumps in both Bajo Rio San Juan and Bajo Rio Bravo Districts
use some of the Mexican allocation.
4.        For purposes of cost-sharing of joint facilities constructed in
the two international storage reservoirs, a division was made of the avail-
able share according to each country's expected use. The shares allotted
are as follows:
Amistad       Falcon
Mexico                43.5%          41.4%
USA                   56.5%          58.6%
Each country, however, has the right to use the storage space belonging to
the other country if such space cannot be used by the owning country. The
above allocations are also used in the event of reservoir spills to deter-
mine water remaining to each country's credit.
Water Availability
5.       -Table 1 gives an analysis by years for the period 1956 through 1972
of the Falcon dam releases made on Mexico's request, the amounts available
from Mexico's share of inflows below Falcon dam, and the diversions made at
the Anzalduas canal heading for use on BajS Rio Bravo lands. The average
annual diversion for 17 years is 1,090 M m , which represents the net amount
available for project use. Table 2 gives an analysis of operation of the
Marte R. Gomez reserv9ir for the period 1956 through 1972 and shows that
approximately 440 M m is available annually for use on the Bajo Rio San Juan
District.
6.        The above amounts are a function of the accounting procedures
followed under the treaty and reflect the residual historical amounts avail-
able to Mexico for project use. In the case of Bajo Rio Bravo, slightly
more water would probably have been available to Mexico prior to 1968 since
Amistad reservoir did not go into operation until that time. However, any
gains that might have been realized from Amistad would probably be offset by
Mexico's current upstream depletions, which, of course, were not reflected
in the historical records. On balance, therefore, it is believed the record
reasonably represents the amount that can be used for the project. The
diversions at Anzalduas also reflect withdrawals from the Rio Bravo on the
Mexican side to the areas served by pumps (para 3). Project works would
allow better use to be made of the water.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Water Requirements
7.        The following table gives data on the areas claimed to have been
irrigated in 1971, 1972 and 73:
(Ha '000)
Bajo Rio                Bajo Rio
Bravo                 San Juan
Season                  Season
Early        Late       Early           Late         Total
1971       204           32         68               5           309
1972       210           36         67               9           322
1973       210           65         67              12           354
Long-Range
Average  205           43         67              10           325
8.        Computations of consumptive use requirements for individual crops
have been made with the following results:
Vege-        Consumptive Use
tative            (mm)
Period      Bajo Rio   Bajo Rio
Crop           Months         Bravo     San Juan
Fibers              5           600         630
Forage              5           500         520
Grains              4           500         520
Vegetables          2.5         500         520
Oil Seeds           4           550         570
Pasture            12          1300        1320
The consumptive use reflects the water theoretically required under the
prevailing climatic conditions to provide a full water supply to the crop.
Studies indicated that between 30% and 40% of the consumptive use requirements
of various crops are supplied by rainfall.
9.        Table 3 illustrates the critical nature of the irrigation water
supply problem. It shows that for the cropping pattern given in Annex 13
about 35% of the crop water requirement on Bajo Rio Bravo and 37% on the
Bajo Rio San Juan is met by effective rainfall, leaving 65% and 63%, respec-
tively, to be furnished by irrigation.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Water Utilization
10.       Records of historical water diversions and deliveries indicate
that only about 40% to 50% of the water taken in at the head of the main
canals is delivered to the farm turnouts. With an estimated 65% efficiency
of use of irrigation water on the farm, this means that only about 27% to
30% of the water initially diverted is available for plant use. The balance
is lost, largely to infiltrate the ground water, and shows up as increased
drain outflow.
11.       With the project, and virtually complete lining of the irrigation
system, the conveyance losses would be greatly reduced, to the point that at
least 80% of the water diverted at the head of the canal would be delivered
at the farm turnout. With proper land preparation by leveling and good
irrigation practices, efficiency of use of water on the farm should increase
to at least 70%. Thus some 55% to 60% of the water diverted could then be
effectively used for plant growth.
12.       Table 3 indicates that without the project, in average years, the
irrigation water plus the effective rainfall supplies 56% of crop water
requirements on Bajo Rio Bravo and 67% on Bajo Rio San Juan. With the project,
and the higher efficiency in use of water, 85% of the crop water requirements
would be supplied on Bajo Rio Bravo and 98% on Bajo Rio San Juan.
13.       The physical area included in the project is that served by gravity
water supplies in the two irrigation districts. Available water in normal
years will permit the irrigation of only one crop and a certain proportion
of permanent pastures in the entire area. Second cropping will be under
rainfed conditions. It can be argued that the physical area originally
included when the districts were formed was larger than the irrigation water
available could support. While this is true, it would not be possible for
Mexico, due to political and social reasons, to reduce the total area now
included in the project.
14.       While the above picture on adequacy of the irrigation water supply
to meet requirements does not portray ideal conditions, it illustrates that
the farmers will be far better off with than without the project. It further
illustrates that careful use of water is still mandatory in order to make
the very best use of the limited supply. Further, whi.le it is not practicable
to retire blocks of land from the project area, it is possible in years of
water deficiency to pro-rate the supplies to each individual so a portion
of his land would not be irrigated. These factors have been recognized in
projecting yields under project conditions.
15.       The project benefits would be reflected largely by crop diversifi-
cation and increased yields. It is not possible at present to greatly
diversify the cropping pattern as irrigation deliveries are made to large
blocks of land in as short a time as possible to minimize water losses. With



ANNEX 6
Page 6
a lined system, water can be kept in the canals for long periods without
increasing the losses drastically. This will allow water deliveries to be
made over longer periods of time and in rhythm with the water needs of a
variety of crops.
Water Quality
16.       While the quality of water is not ideal, it has been successfully
used for irrigation, both in the United States and Mexico, for many years
and would continue to be suitable for use. Total salts average about 1,000
ppm but the percentage of sodium falls within acceptable limits.
Alternatives
17.       The fact that large losses are presently incurred from the irriga-
tion system and, in turn, contribute to the ground water supply and increase
the drainage problem, immediately suggests that ground water pumping or reuse
of drain water should be considered as a means of increasing the water supply.
However, extensive sampling and testing has shown conclusively that, under
most of the area, the ground water is too saline for irrigation use. It is
only in Unit 5 of the Bajo Rio Bravo, in the vicinity of the town of Rio
Bravo, that any amount of useable ground water exists. Present extraction
there is in the order of 40 M m per year and while this could possibly be
increased, studies indicate that the potential is limited as far as good
quality water is concerned. SRH has installed three new wells in this area
and may, if results are favorable, drill other wells, but such work is not
included in the proposed project.
18.       The flows found in the drains originate from the ground water,
and the quality reflects that of the ground water. At no point, however,
in either district have such flows been found to be of a quality suitable
for reuse on the project.
January 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 1
MEICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ba.o Rio Bravo Water Availabilit yand Diverted Flows
(Millions of  m3/year)
Availability                                            Diversion
Falccn     Alamo         San Juan                               An zalduas
Year   Dam         River         River                      Total             % of Availa-
Releases   Discharges   Dischargeu    Other   Availabili              % ofAit   a
1956       -*16                      21          38         -,264
1957       927        113            27          25        1,092       1,642     -
1958    26,419r*      442          1,300*          -*     28,161*        904     -
1959     1,299         43            90            _>      1,432         637    414
1960     1,121         83            -*           -.       1,204       1,157     96
1961     1,195         61            18          67        1,341       1,113     83
1962     1,228         57            33          55        1,373       1,229     90
1963       821        125            13          18          977         984    101
1964       616        131            25          30          812         812    100
1965     1,313         31            21           48       1,1413      1,464   104
1966     1,030        103           214          46        1,393         696     50
1967     1,134        728           347       3,186*       5,395*      1,178     -
1968       728        126           816          71        1,741         715    h4
1969     1,128         48            50          62       1,288        1,221     95
1970       502         44           118          69         733          740   101
1971     2,577        326           994           42       3,939       1,567     40
1972       988        165           558         233        1,944       1,282     66
Average  1,107        155           244          62        1,477       1,094
* Ignored for averages.



ANNEX 6
Table 2
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Bajo Rio San Juan District
M.R. Gomez Reservoir Inflows and Extractions
'(Millions of m3)
Evapo-
ration
Total    and
Years   Inflow   Losses   Spills   Extraction
1956       77      133                 501
1957      870      160                 375
1958    2,518      163    1,300        hO6
1959      324      253        90       439
1960      772      162                 547
1961      506      218                 534
1962      398      149                 508
1963      554      117                 278
1964      604      208                 310
1965      666      194                 456
1966      940      256       182       326
1967    3,903      282    3,273        505
1968    1,204      281       731       314
1969      828      275        13       609
1970      714      272        76       505
1971    1,573      255       822       537
1972    1,304      262       492       701
Averages    1,044       208      410        144
NOTE: 1956 initial storage    795 Mm3
1973 initial storage  1,032 mm3
January 9, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 3
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATICN PROJECT
Irrigation Water Demand and Supply
(Nonmal year--Millions cubic meters)
(With proposed agricultural pattern)
Bajo Rio Bravo                Bajo Rio San Juan
% of Theo-                   % of Theo-
Gross  Net    retical         Gross   Net   retical
Average consumptive
use requirement            -    1,240      100           -     430       100
Effective rainfall           -  2/ 43         35           -2 160           37
Irrigation demand          1.44C0-  810        65          4802/ 270        63
Without the project
Water supply             1,000/  270        22          4402/ 130        30
Total water to plants      -      700       56           -     290        67
With the project                2                                2
Water supply             1,1/  620           50           602/260         60
Total water to plants           1,050       85           -     420        98
1/ Overall efficiencies froma 27 to 29%.
_ 'Overall efficiency 56%.
January 17, 1975



ANNEX 7
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Mex$ Million                                US$ Million
Bajo Rio   Bajo Rio                                                                     Percent
Project Works                       Bravo       San Juan    Total    Local   Foreign        Total    Local    Foreign       Foreign Exchange
- Canal Lining                      727.49      273.63     1,001.12
- Structures and
Gauging Stations                97.16       14.78       111.94
824.65     288.41     1,113.06    667.84   445.22      89.04     53.42       35.62             40
- Drains
- New                             75.17       12.52        87.69
- Improvements                    17.84        -           17.84
- Structures and Gauging
Stations                       91.25       11.28       102.53
184.26      23,80       208.06    124.84    83.22      16.64      9.99        6.65             4C
- Roads
- Sturfacing                      78.84      12.54         91.38
- Embankments                      6.54       4.52         11.06
- Structures                       3.69         .49         4.18
69.07      17.55       106.62     63.97    42.65       8.53      5.12        3.41             40
- Canal Riders' Houses
- New                              4.35        1.24         5.59
- Improvements                     3.18        1.74         4.92
7.53       2.98        10.51      9.46     1.C5        .84       .76         .08             .0
On Farm Works
- Leveling                          277.25      123.66       400.91    200.45   200.46     32.07      16.04       16.03            50
Total               1,382.76     456.40      1,839.16  1,066.56   772.60    147.13      85.32       61.81            42
Engineering and Administration
- Project works                  124.19      38.42        162.61    162.61     -         13.01     13.01         -
-Leveling                       69.32      30.91        100.23    100.23     -         8.02       8.02         -              _
193.51      69.33       262.84    262.84      -        21.03     21.03         -               -
Right-of-Way                         29.04       10.29        39.33     39.33     -          3.15      3.15         -
Materials
- Cement                        126.67      47.09        173.76    173.76     -         13.90     13.90                        -
- Steel                           6.23        2.12         8.35      8.35     _          0.67      0.67
Equipment                           132.90       49.21       S2 18 1    182.11     -        14.57     14.57
- Machinery for 0 & M            33.01      10.83         43.84     17.54    26.30      3.51       1.41        2.10            60
- Radio-Telephone                 3.47       2.29          5.76      2.30     3.46        .46       .18         .28            60
36.48      13.12        49.60     19.84    29.76       3.97      1.59        2.38             60
Extension Program                   232.50       77.50       310.00    310.00     -         24.80     24.80        -                -
Physical Contingencies              151.91       50.79       202.70    117.55    85.13      16.21      9.40        6.81            42
Base Cost and  Physical Contcy    2,159.10      726.64     2,885.74  1,998.25   887.49    230.86    159.86        71.00             33
Price Contingencies               1,437.39     483.74    1.921.13  1.152.68   768.45    153.69        92.21       61.48            40
Base Cost, Physical and
Price Contingencies             3,596.49   1,210.38     4,806.87  3,150.53 1,655.94    384.55    252.07        132.48            34
January 8, 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Equipment and Materials
General
1.        SRH has traditionally purchased building materials such as cement
and reinforcing steel in bulk orders and furnished them to the contractors
for use on SRH works. Relatively small items such as structural steel shapes,
culverts and gates are included in the civil works contracts on a furnish
and install basis. Large special equipment is purchased by SRH under separate
international bidding documents and furnished to the civil works contractors
for installation. Equipment and materials available in Mexico cannot be
imported by SRH and would not be financed under the loan, except insofar as
it would be a part of a civil works contract let under international bidding.
Materials Furnished by SRH
2.        The following items would be purchased by SRH under local bidding
procedures and furnished to the contractors for use on the project. These
are excluded from Bank financing.
Bajo Rio Bravo    Bajo Rio San Juan    Total
   -------     Mex$ Millions --------------
Cement              126.67              47.09           173.76
Steel                 6.23               2.12             8.35
132.90             49.21            182.11
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
3.        Certain equipment would be purchased to supplement or replace that
presently available to operate and maintain the project. This equipment
could be obtained in Mexico and would be purchased under local bidding pro-
cedures. It would be excluded from Bank financing. Table 1 indicates the
equipment involved.
Imported Equipment
4.        There are no items of equipment or material required on the project
that would be purchased under international bidding.
January 1975



Annex 8
Table 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Operation-and Maintenance Equipment
No.    Bajo Rio Bravo    Bajo San Juan  Total
______--- Mex$ Millions--------
Draglines (crawler)                       5            5.38             1.26        6.64
Draglines (wheeler)                       3            2.00             1.00        3.00
Backhoe                                   7            4.85               .50       5.35
Tractors                                  7            3.50             1.40        h.90
Trencher                                  1             .75              -           .75
Scrapers                                  8            4.98             1.66        6.64
Graders                                   5            1.50             1.00        2.50
Tractors (wheeler)                        9            4.69             1.34        6.03
Sand blast unit                           2             .38              .38         .76
Rollers                                   5           1.14               .76        1.90
Sprayers                                  4             .39              .13         .52
Trailer truck                             1             .70              -           .70
Dump truck                               15           1.25               .63        1.88
Tank truck                                6             .55              .27         .82
Mechanics shop                            2           1.00               .50        1.50
33.01            10.83      43.84
Radio telephone network                 253            3.47             2.29        5.76
36-.8            13.12      49.60
January 9, 1975



MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAI REHABILITATION PROJECT
Expenditure Schedule
(Millions Mex$)
Years
Project Works                       1        2         3         4         5         6          7       Total
Canal lining and drainage         69147   328.18    249.142   184.04   184.04   184.00    121.97   1,321.12
Roads and houses                   9.23    30.42    21.73       18.22     15.48     15.04       7.01     117.13
Leveling                           3.90     66.32     66.32     61.37     58.90     58.90      55.20     1400.91
Total works            112.60   1424.92    337.47   263.63    258.42    257.94    1814.18   1,839.16
Engneering and Administration     17.38     57.22     47.42    38.10      37.20     37.15     28-37      262.84
Riht-of Jay                        3.92      7.35      7.87      7.87      7.87      4.45       --       39.33
Equipment and Materials
Cement and steel                  10.34     45.03     34.23    25.26      25.26     25.25     16.74      182.11
0 & M Equipment                    --        2.76      3.00     15.56     13.147    11.28      3.53      49.60
Extension Program                 25.52     39.97     51.56     48.24     48.24    148.24    48.23       310.00
Physical Contingencies            12.29     47.27     37.47    2d.89      28.37     28.32      20.09     202.70
Base cost and physical
Bcosntingencies                182.05    624.52    519.02    427.55    418.83    412.63    301.14   2,885.714
Price contingencies               59.53    163.52    249.81    295.28    354.53    395.42    403.04   1,921.13
Base cost, physical and price
contingencies                  241.58   788.04    768.83    722.83    773.36    808.05    704.18   4,8o6.8
Ix
o



ANNEX 10
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement
Millions of US$
Fiscal Year
and Semester
1976
Dec. 31, 1975         -
June 30, 1976        3.8
1977
Dec. 31, 1976        7.5
June 30, 1977       19.9
1978
Dec. 31, 1977       32.2
June 30, 1978       44.1
1979
Dec. 31, 1978       56.o
June 30, 1979       67.1
1980
Dec. 31, 1979       78.2
June 30, 1980       90.1
1981
Rec. 31, 1980      102.1
June 30, 1981      11h.8
1982
Dec. 31, 1981      127.3
June 30, 1982      138.5
1983
Dec. 31, 1982      150.0
April 14, 1975



ANNEX 11
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
Responsibilities
1.        SRH, with its headquarters in Mexico City, would have full respon-
sibility for implementing all phases of the project, including the operation
and maintenance of completed facilities. Overall responsibility for carrying
out the operation and maintenance function would rest with the Gerente General
of the North Zone of Tamaulipas State with offices in the city of Rio Bravo.
However, this function is largely delegated to the managers of the individual
irrigation districts.                                                            I
2.        Both the Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio San Juan districts have been
functioning efficiently for many years. They are well organized and equipped
for carrying out operation and maintenance activities. Each district has
two divisions, one concerned with water distribution within the district and
the other with maintenance of the system and providing minor betterments.
Operation
3.        Each district is divided into irrigation units, which are, in turn,
divided into zones and these again into sections. Generally, each section
represents an area of about 1,800 ha, or 120 farms, and is attended by a
canalero (ditch rider). Farmers give requests for irrigation water deliveries
to the canalero who forwards it through the zone to the Irrigation Unit head-
quarters where it is given to the district headquarters. Requests for
deliveries are consolidated as they are passed through administrative channels.
In the case of Bajo Rio Bravo, the consolidated request is given to the
International Boundary and Water Commission, which then makes the release
from Falcon Reservoir as requested. It takes 72 hours for a change in release
at Falcon to be effective at Anzalduas. In the case of Bajo Rio San Juan,
the water requests are consolidated in the district headquarters and then
passed on as appropriate orders to the gate tenders at Marte R. Gomez Dam.
Releases from the dam can reach any part of the district within 24 hours.
Irrigation water deliveries follow a reverse procedure, with the water
ultimately reaching the canalero,who adjusts gates according to the schedule.
Maintenance
4.        Maintenance activities are organized along similar lines, with
appropriate groups responsible for maintenance by Units, Zones and Sections.
Major equipment is dispatched from district headquarters.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Costs
5.        Table 1 shows the cost of operation and maintenance as charged for
1969 through 1974 and the budget for 1975. These total costs are compared
with the water charges levied on users for this purpose for the same years.
Individual per ha irrigation charges were at the rate of Mex$ 100 per ha
through 1973 and were raised to Mex$ 150 per ha for 1974 and 1975. It is
evident that the big increases in costs caused by inflation in 1973 and
1974 were not covered by the charges made. Depreciation on major equipment
is absorbed at SRH headquarters in Mexico City and is not charged to the
districts.
6.        Table 2 gives an estimate of annual operation and maintenance costs
expected under the project, which total Mex$ 80.4 million (US$6.4 million).
This is equivalent to US$23 per ha per year. SRH is in the process of
installing a computer in the Mexico City headquarters with terminals in the
headquarters of major irrigation districts. This will allow each district
to have computer capability available for accounting purposes and for
scheduling operation and maintenance activities. A cost is shown in the
budget for this service.  Although not presently charged to the district,
an item is also shown for annual depreciation of heavy equipment. A list
of major equipment for operation and maintenance purposes is given in Annex 8.
7.        The two districts are adequately staffed to handle operation and
maintenance activities. Under the project, with good communication facili-
ties available, operation should be more efficient but the operating personnel
level would remain the same. Maintenance of the lined irrigation system
should be less costly than it is for the present system. However, the
drainage system would be extended and costs for additional drain maintenance
would offset savings in irrigation system maintenance. Equipment required
for maintenance would change slightly in composition but the total value
would remain about the same. It is concluded that annual operation and
maintenance costs would remain the same under with and without project
conditions.
January 1975



Annex 11
Table 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Costs
(Millions of Mex$)
Ba.jo Rio Bravo           1969       1970      1971       1972      1973       1974      1975
Water Charges            19.757    22.356    22.003    22.143    20.886    28.500    29.750c1/
% increase: year           -          0       -1.6       +o.6      -5.7      +36.5      +4.7
Actual Cost              18.642    23.650    22.170    26.002    29.614    45.161    53.500
% increase: year           -          0       -6.3      +17.3     +13.9      +52.5     +18.5
Ba.jo Rio San Juan
Water Charges                        7.6h14    7.500      7.500     7.418      8.554    10.877-2/
% increase: year                      0       -1.9         0       -1.1      +15.3     +27.2
Actual cost                          8.444     8.500    10.046    13.726    14.069    18.697*
% interest: year                      0       +0.7      +18.2     +36.6       +2.5     +32.9
* Estimated Expenditure
1/ 195,000 ha irrigated by gravity @ $150/ha $29,250,000
12,500 ha irrigated by pumping @ $40/ha        500,000
$29,750,000
2/  67,500 ha @ $150/ha   $10,125,000
6,500 ha @ $ 35/ha        227,500
1,000 ha @ $ 85/ha        170,000
Others                    355,000
Total Revenue $10,877,500
Note: Depreciation of equipment is not included
January 13, 1975



Annex 11
Table 2
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Expected Operation and Maintenance
Annual Cost
MNEx$ Millions)
Rio Bravo         San Juan          Total
Activity         District No.25   District No.26   $Million    %
Maintenance          23.389           8.831          32.220     40
Operation            13.848           6.078         19.926      25
Irrigation and
drainage Engr.        3.363           1.105          4.468      6
Various               2.402             .253          2.655      3
Administration       10.498           2.430         12.928      16
Sub-total         53.500          18.697         72.197
Computer terminal                                      .750      1
Equipment                                             7.4401/    9
Total Annual Cost,Mex$ Million   80.387    100
1/ Annual depreciation on 1,500 h/year.
January 13, 1975



ANNEX 12
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Agricultural Services
Services at National Level
1.        Mexican agricultural services are reputed to be among the best in
Latin America. They have had an important bearing on Mexico's relatively
rapid agricultural development. They are, however, still insufficient to
cope with the growing needs of the country, but they do offer a sound basis
for expansion.
2.        Education and Training (Table 1).  At the university level, agri-
cultural education has steadily grown during the last 10 years and now
Mexico has 28 undergraduate schools -- 17 schools of agriculture and related
sciences and 11 schools of veterinary science. The total enrollment is
about 13,500 students -- 9,500 in agriculture and 4,000 in veterinary -- with
an annual output of about 2,000 graduates -- 1,300 agriculturists and 700
veterinarians. At present, there are approximately 12,000 agriculture and
veterinary graduates practicing their profession in Mexico, but the total
requirements of the country were estimated in 1970 at 35,000 graduates.
Five agricultural schools offer graduate programs, with a total enrollment
of 460 students of which about 160 graduate annually. The National School
of Agriculture, Chapingo -- under the Secretary of Agriculture (SAG) -- has
the biggest and oldest graduate program leading to the MS degree in nine
major fields (Botany, Agricultural Extension, Agricultural Economics,
Entomology, Statistics, Plant Pathology, Genetics, Irrigation and Drainage,
and Soils), and the Ph D degree in four major fields (Botany, Plant Pathology,
Genetics and Soils).
3.        Agricultural education at lower levels is offered in schools admin-
istered by, or under the control of, the Secretary of Education (SEP). At
the sub-professional, post-secondary level, four schools offer a two-year
program leading to the "Agronomo" degree (high level technician). This
being a relatively new program, the current enrollment of 74 students will
graduate approximately 47, but it will be greatly expanded to fill the gap
between middle-level technicians (Tecnicos Agropecuarios) and university
graduates (Ingenieros Agronomos).
4.        At the upper secondary level, 56 schools offer a three-year program
leading to the "Tecnico Agropecuario" diploma. Some of these schools (15)
are part of the universities and the others (41) are run by SEP. Over 7,000
students are currently enrolled and about 800 technicians are graduated per
year. Also at this level of education, an agricultural teacher training
school offers a four-year program to train agricultural teachers for the
lower secondary schools.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
5.        At the lower secondary level, 445 schools (with a total present
enrollment of 67,476 students and estimated output of 12,400) offer a three-
year pre-vocational program in agriculture. Schools of this type are rapidly
being expanded in rural villages of 5,000 population or less. They are
intended to provide the students with basic knowledge on farming, animal
'nusbandry, farm machinery and rural industries, so that the school leavers
who are unable to continue their educations can enter the rural working force.
6.        Agricultural training in Mexico is offered in a number of institu-
tions. SEP has so far established 12 adult training centers in connection
with some lower secondary schools. In these centers, three- to 12-month
courses are offered for training adults on specific subjects. More adult
training centers are expected to be established in the near future. In the
agricultural sector, the National School of Agriculture, Chapingo and the
Directorate General of Agricultural Extension (DGEA), SAG, have continuing
agricultural training courses. These are: (a) pre-service and in-service
training courses for staff members of the various agricultural institutions;
(b) three-month courses for farm machinery operators; and (c) short courses
for farmers, homemakers and young farmers.
7.        Research.  Agricultural research in Mexico is based on two main
national institutions: Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agricolas
(INIA) and Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Pecuarias (INIP). Admin-
istratively, both belong to SAG but there is little coordination between them.
Mexico is also the home of the International Research Center for Maize and
Wheat (CIMMYT) 1/ where some of the high yielding varieties of wheat and corn
have been developed and are being exported to other countries as a part of
the so-called "Green Revolution." Other Types of research are carried out
by specialized institutions such as the Mexican Institute of Technological
Research of Monterrey, the Institute for Improvement of Sugar Production, the
National Forestry Service, the Secretary of Hydraulic Resources (SRH) on
hydrologic research, the Mexican Coffee Institute, the Center of Agrarian
Research, the Association for Animal Production and Improvement, the Fruti-
culture National Commission, the Horticulture National Commission, the
National Union of Cotton Growers, the Universities, and the Latin American
Association for Animal Production, which has its headquarters in Mexico.
8.        INIA, the biggest agricultural research institution in Mexico, has
its headquarters in Chapingo where it, together with the National School of
Agriculture and DGEA, constitutes the National Center for Agricultural Educa-
tion, Research and Extension. INIA is organized in 14 departments -- eight
for specific crops (cotton, cereals, pasture, fruits, vegetables, legumes,
1/   Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
maize and sorghum, and oil seeds) and six for specific disciplines (soils,
entomology, plant pathology, agricultural economics, weed control and communi-
cations). All departments carry out their activities through eight regional
research centers and 40 experiment fields. However, 75% of the research
work in the field is carried out in cooperating farms.  In its headquarters,
regional centers and experiment fields, INIA has at present 489 full-time
researchers (35 with PhD degrees, 104 with MS degrees and 350 with BS or
equivalent degrees) who are assisted by 1,250 research assistants and
administrative staff. Research programs are interdisciplinary in nature and,
in general, emphasize food production -- especially maize, wheat, rice, beans
and oil seeds. Due to financial constraints and limited number of qualified
researchers, however, INIA is unable to cover completely the different ecolo-
gical areas of Mexico and the main crops of each area.
9.        INIP, the major livestock research institution, has its headquarters
in Mexico City. Like INIA, it is organized in departments comprising major
animals (beef cattle and dairy cattle), minor animals (poultry and others --
swine, sheep, goats), animal nutrition and management, forage and pasture
management, and animal pathology and serology, including vaccine production.
INIP currently has a professional staff of about 130, including five with PhD
degrees and 15 with MS degrees. In addition to the main Palo Alto laboratories
in Mexico City, field facilities are provided for livestock research in most
of the major animal production areas in the country. Although INIP's budget
expanded significantly in the last decade, it falls short of meeting the
livestock research needs of the country. Furthermore, INIP's programs are
oriented mainly to the fields of preventive medicine and vaccine production,
and little has been done on animal production and management problems.
10.       Extension.  Organized agricultural extension services in Mexico are
provided by DGEA, PLAMEPA, 1/ State Governments, banking institutions and
private organizations. In addition, some 25 agencies, mainly in SAG, carry
out in one way or another some kind of extension work.
11.       DGEA, the biggest of all extension services, has its headquarters
in Chapingo as a constituent of the National Center for Agricultural Education,
Research and Extension. At the national level, it is organized in eight
regions which are the same as the agricultural research regions. DGEA has
at present 3,087 staff members -- 1,390 university graduates, 862 agricultural
technicians, 500 rural family educators and 335 administiative staff. DGEA
has considerably expanded from 1970 to 1974, as shown below:
1/   Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario, SRH.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
Technical Staff (No)                  768   1,091   1,480   2,404   2,752
Vehicles (No)                         113      311     904   1,274   1,724
Budget (Mex$ million)                  49       60     100      190     280
Area Assisted (ha '000)               604     860   1,320   1,577   2,910
Despite this expansion, DGEA covers only 16% of the cultivated area and 12%
of the ejidatarios, mainly because of financial and manpower constraints.
However, in view of the increased number of agricultural schools, DGEA expects
to engage 250 university graduates and 400 technicians annually through 1980,
plus a number of rural family educators whose type of training is expected
to be reoriented towards home economics.
12.       Being aware of the need for coordination and cooperation, DGEA
is increasingly seeking the participation of other institutions for carrying
out its extension programs, To this end, it has placed its regional super-
visors and extension specialists in the INIA research regional centers and,
for specific purposes, it has entered into different forms of agreements
with other institutions and agencies concerned with credit (BANEJIDAL 1/ and
FONDO 2/), seeds (PRONASE 3/), fertilizers (Guanos y Fertilizantes de Mexico,
S.A.), pest control (Direccion General de Sanidad Vegetal, SAG), storage
(CONASUPO 4/), insurance (ANAGSA 5/) and irrigation (PLAMEPA, SRH and Plan
Presidencial "Benito Juarez," SAG). DGEA is also connected with CIMMYT and
receives financial support, for specific programs, from state governments,
official and private banks, SRH, agricultural credit unions, research asso-
ciations, service clubs, and private companies dealing with agricultural in-
puts.
13.       In the irrigation districts, SRH has set up its PLAMEPA to direct
efforts aimed at improving water use on farms that fall below the average
efficiency of a particular district. In doing this, PLAMEPA also provides
"prescriptions" to the farmers, recommending specific irrigation practices
as well as seed varieties, cultivation practices, use of fertilizers and
pesticides, and the like. Results of this program have so far been satis-
factory, particularly with ejidatarios. The Inter-American Development Bank
1/   Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal, S.A. de C.V.
2/   Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y'Avicultura.
3/   Productora Nacional de Semillas.
4/   Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares.
5/   Aseguradora Nacional Agricola y Ganadera, S.A.



A!NEX 12
Page 5
(IDB) has granted a US$23 million loan to help finance the first phase
(1973-76) of a US$47 million project aimed at extending PLAMEPA's activities
over about 1 million ha of on-going irrigation projects.
14.       Official and private banks, and farm input suppliers also provide
their own technical assistance to clients. Some 125 professionals in private
banks and 300 in official banks coordinate their technical assistance activi-
ties with 500 professionals under a special technical assistance service
established by the Fondo de Garantia to support the Mexican agricultural credit
system. This type of technical assistance is, of course, limited to the credit
users and to the supervision of specific loans.
Services in the Project Area
15.       Education and Training.  In the state of Tamaulipas, where the
project area is located, the state university has a Faculty of Agriculture,
with two schools, one in Ciudad Victoria and one in Ciudad Mante, and a Faculty
of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Husbandry in Ciudad Victoria. In addition,
there are in the State: (a) a post-secondary agricultural institute in
Tampico; (b) two upper secondary agricultural schools, in Tampico and in
Ciudad Victoria; and (c) 25 lower secondary agricultural schools -- one in
the city of Rio Bravo. These institutions would supply, annually, about 50
professionals and 70 agricultural technicians to the State agricultural
institutions, which appear sufficient to meet the local requirements, espe-
cially considering that the most specialized personnel come from other states.
16.       Research.  The Tamaulipas Agricultural Research Center, CIAT, 1/
in Rio Bravo, covers -- through its experimental station and four agricul-
tural fields -- the State of Tamaulipas and part of the neighboring states of
San Luis Potosi, Veracruz and Nuevo Leon. CIAT research programs are carried
out by 19 researchers and are now emphasizing cotton, corn, sorghum, oil seeds,
legumes and pasture production. However, these programs would be insufficient
to support agricultural development under the proposed project. Changes in
cropping pattern, including substantial expansion of irrigated pasture (dairy
and beef cattle) and vegetable areas, will require more research activities
than are currently carried out. New research programs would therefore be
established as part of the proposed technical assistance program to investigate
adaptability of new crop varieties and animal breeds, use of fertilizers,
and pest and weed control methods under the project area conditions. A
livestock research program (nonexistent at present) would also be established
by INIP.
17.       Extension.  DGEA agricultural extension programs in the project
area are very weak. They are carried out by 23 agricultural extension officers
and five rural family educators, which, in 1974, assisted only 4,450 farmers,
1/   Centro de Investigaciones Agricolas de Tamaulipas.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
covering 22,600 ha. In order to insure adequate agricultural development under
the project, the extension service would be substantially strengthened and
expanded as part of the proposed technical assistance program.
18.       On the other hand, the SRH irrigation extension program in the
project area is well under way. Nine PLAMEPA teams are currently in opera-
tion -- six in Bajo Rio Bravo and three in Bajo Rio San Juan -- each team con-
sisting of one agricultural graduate, three agricultural technicians, one
surveyor, one draftsman, part-time secretary and four workers. These teams
provide technical assistance to the farmers on land leveling design and irriga-
tion practices. In addition, the PLAMEPA-IDB project includes: (a) hydrometric
and climatologic studies; (b) canal lining; (c) experiments on irrigation
methods and practices; (d) test and demonstration fields; and (e) staff train-
ing, both professional and technician.  The total cost of the PLAMEPA-IDB '
project is about Mex$ 67 million (Mex$ 36.3, IDB loan) -- Mex$ 44.6 million
during the first phase and Mex$ 22.4 million during the second. The PLAMEPA
technical assistance program is expected to cover 110,000 ha by the end of
the IDB project in 1979, and it will probably continue effectively beyond
that date; a total of 200,000 ha could be covered by 1985. In order to
accelerate the process and cover the whole area by the end of the proposed
project, SRH intends to strengthen the PLAMEPA teams with three additional
agricultural technicians.
19.       Official and private banks provide some technical assistance to
their clients in the project area through 18 professionals and 33 inspectors.
Although most of them are concerned with supervision of specific loans, some
(currently performing extension work under DGEA coordination) would be incor-
porated into the proposed technical assistance program under DGEA.
Technical Assistance Program Under the Project
20.       As stated in paragraphs 16 and 17 above, agricultural research and
extension services are at present inadequate to support successfully the
agricultural development under the project. A technical assistance program
would therefore be implemented as an integral part of the proposed project.
It would consist of strengthening and expanding CIAT research programs and
DGEA extension programs and establishing new INIP research programs in the
project area. All programs would emphasize soil-plant-water relations; pest
and disease control; cotton, maize, sorghum, pasture and vegetable production;
and dairy and beef cattle production. To this end, research and extension
staff would be substantially increased as shown in Table 2; and new physical
facilities and equipment would be provided. The kind of facilities and cost
estimates of the proposed program are presented in Table 3. The correspond-
ing investment schedule, which includes operational expenditures during the
project implementation period (seven years), amounting to Mex$ 310 million,
is presented in Table 4. According to the program, the extension officers
would be able to assist all the farmers of the project area, each officer
(professional or technician) assisting approximately 70 farmers and covering
1,000 ha.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
21.       Implementation of the technical assistance program would be an SRH
responsibility, but each of the research and extension programs would be
carried out by the SAG agencies concerned.  To this purpose, SRH should enter
into contractual arrangements with the appropriate agencies.
Credit
22.       Agricultural credit to meet the needs of a complex farming community
composed of about three million farmers and producers in Mexico is provided
by the official banks and private credit institutions.
23.       Official banks are those organized or created by Government.  To
serve the agricultural sector, Mexico has three official banks:
-    Banco Nacional de Credito Ejidal S.A. de C.V. (BANEJIDAL),
which lends only to ejidatarios;
-    Banco Nacional de.Credito Agricola (BANAGRICOLA) which
concentrates on lending to smallholders and colonistas
(colonos); and
-    Banco Nacional Agropecuario (BANAGRO), which lends to any
technically assisted type of farmer.
In addition, the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia
y Avicultura (FONDO) was established in 1955 as a trust fund in the Central
Bank of Mexico (BANXICO) to carry out a program which provides financial
support and agricultural technical services to official and private banks
active in agriculture. Financial support to the banking system is provided
through a rediscounting mechanism. 1/
24.       Private credit institutions dealing with agricultural credit are
commercial banks and "Financieras." These have technical departments staffed
by loan officers who normally coordinate with FONDO technicians in matters
related to preparation and appraisal of farm development plans. Government
has announced its intention to guarantee at least 60% of the amount of long-
term loans made by private financial institutions to ejidetarios and small
farmers.
January 1975
1/   More complete and extensive information concerning the credit system
is given in the Appraisal Report of the Fourth Livestock and Agricultural
Development Project 133a-ME dated May 25, 1973.



ANNEX 1?
Table 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REABThTTAT TON PROJECT
Agricultural Education and Training
(1974)
Level of Education         Institutions  Teachers  Enrollment  Output
Universitiy l/
Graduate (2-4 yrs)                      n.a.          4Cc        1C
Undergraduate (5-7 yrs)      28          967       13,5Cc      2,00C
Agriculture 2/               17          2        9,0oa      1,30o
Veterinary Science           11          415        4 °000       700.
Post Seconda
ITA 37 Sub-profess-
ional (2 yrs)                 4          85            74         47
Upper Seondary
CETA 4/ Technician (3 yrs)      56         n.a.        7,349        836
University Schools          l          n.a.        1,235        '15
Government Schools           41          181        6,114        321
ENAMACTA 5/ Teacher
Training (4 yrs)                1           &3          732        129
Lower Secondary
ETA 6/-Pre-Voca-
tional (3 yrs)                445        3,573       67,476    12,400
Non-Formal
CECATA 7/(3-12 months)          12            7        2,800 8/    -
1/ Mission estimate based on Mexican Association of Universities data for 1970-1971.
2/ Includes: Agronomy, Animal Husbandry, Irrigation and Drainage, Forestry,
and Agricultural Economics.
3/  Instituto Tecnologico Agropecuario.
I&/ Centro de Estudios Tecnologicos Agropecuarios.
§/ Escuela Nacional de Maestros para la Capacitacion en el Trabajo-Agropecuario.
Escuela Tecnologica Agropecuaria.
7/ Centro de Capaaitacion para el Trabajo Agropecuario.
8/ Number of Places.
Source: Secretary of Public Education, 1974.
December 16, 1974



ANNEX 12
Table 2
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT-
Agricultural Research and Extension Services
Manpower Requirements
Existing   New   Total
Agricultural Research (INIA-CIAT)
Researchers                      19 3/    25 4/   44
Research Assistants              17        25      42
Other 1/                         n.a.    135       n.a.
Livestock Research (INIP)
Researchers                        -        7 5/    7
Research Assistants               -         7       7
Other _/                          -        39      39
Agricultural Extension (fm EA)
Extension Officers 2/
Professionals                  23        66      89
Ag. Technicians                 -       180     180
Rural Family Educators 2/         5        67      72
Other 1/                          2        12      1
1/ Administrative personnel, machine operators and skilled workers.
2/  Include coordinator and supervisors.
3/ Research Programs: Entomology, Plant Pathology, Weed Control,
Agricultural Economics, Soils, Water Management, Communications, Cotton
Maize and Sorghum, Oil Seeds, Legumes, Pasture.
4/ To strengthen the above programs , plus: Horticulture, Cereals, Biologic
Pest Control and Grain Conservation.
5/ Research Programs: Cattle Breeding and Management (Beef and Dairy),
Animal Nutrition, Animal Pathology.
December 16, 1974



ANNEX 12
Table 3
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Agricultural Research and Extension Services
Cost Estimates
Agricultural   livestock      Agricultural     Total
Research      Research        Extension
-----------  e------ TMex$'000O _________     -_
Construction             2,341.5       1,186.5           -          3,528.0
Offices               1,350.0         216.0           -          1,56.0
Laboratories            504.0         144.0            -            648.o
Storage                 487.5          90.0           -            577.5
Farm Structures-/        -            496.5            -            496.5
Housing                  -            24o.o           -             240.0
Ecuipment                7,727.       8                 4           14,216.7
Office                               12T928.1        28079          715-0
Laboratory            4,400.0         720.0           -           5,120.0
Farm                  1,659.9         524.4        4,015.6       6,199.9
Vehicles              1,522.5         499.3          160.0        2,181.8
Furniture                  239.4          74.8          986.4        1,300.6
Livestock                   _            824.0           -             824.0
Land                        -            700.0            -            700.0
Recurrent Costs         10 441.9       3.098.9       34,697.7      48,238.5
Salaries                            2,700.7       2b,3bl.4      40,450.7
Office Rent              -              -            864.0          864.o
Operation               670.8         207.7        4,398.3 2t    5,276.8
Maintenance             235.0          91.0           91.0 o417.0
Materials               167.5          99.5          963.0        1 230.0
Total             20.750.6       7,9_17O        40140.2      68___07.8
1/ Includes site development and utilities.
#/ Includes rent of vehicles.
Decenber 11, 1974



MEXICO
1 AJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
\.n.                                     Agricultural Research and Extension Services
Investment Schedule
Year       Year       Year        Year       Year        Year       Year         Total
1          2           3          I Mex$'003i            6           7
--7ex$ '005
Construction      2,140.0    1.388.0        -          -                                            3,528.
Offices        1,000.0       566.o-                            -           - _1,566.0
Laboratories     350.0       298.0       -          -          -           -          _            648.0
Storage          300.0       277.5       -          -          -           -          -            577.5
Farm Structures  250.0       246.5       -          -          -           -                       4 496.5
Housing          240.0         -         -          -          -           -          -            240.0
Equipment         5,6oo.0    5,296.8    3,319-9        -          -           -                    14,216.7
Office          L[00.0       315.0       -          -          -           -          -            71 .0
Laboratory     1,700.0    1,800.0    1,620.0        -          _           _                     5,120.0
Farm           2,000.0    2,500.0    1,699.9        -          -           -          -          6,199.9
Vehicles       1,500.0       681.8       -          -          -           -          -          2,181.8
Furniture           700.0       600.6       -          -          -           -          -          1,300.6
Livestock           300.0       524.0       -          -          -           -           -           824.0
Land                700.0         -         -                     -                                   700.0
Recurrent Costs  16,079.3   32,158.9   48238.5   45  448238    48,238.5   289,430.7
Salaries      13,4T 3.5  26;967.2  40,450.7   40,4550.7   40,450.7                             242,704.2
Office Rent      288.0       576.0      864.0       864.0      864.0       864.0      864.o      5,184.0
Operation      1,758.8    3,517.7    5,276.8    5,276.8    5,276.8    5,276.8    5,276.8    31,660.5                 a C
Maintenance      139.0       278.0      417.0       417.0      417.0       417.0      417.0      2,502.0
Materials        410.0       820.0    1,230.0    1,230.0    1,230.0    1,230.0        .230.0     7,380.0                N.)
TOTAL      25,519.3   39,968.3   51,558.4   48 285   48.5   48,238.5   LL8,238.5   310,000.0



ANNEX 13
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Agricultural Production
Cotton
1.        Until the mid-1960s, cotton was the most important crop, covering
more than 90% of the entire area of both districts, but it almost disappeared
from the cropping pattern between 1966 and 1969/70. Diseases (Pudricion Texana
(Phymatotrichum omnivorum) and Heliothis) spread as a result of the continuous
cultivation of the crop, but the increasing cost of control measures and labor
was not reflected in cotton prices, which remained stable. However, more
resistant varieties became available in 1971 and prices increased substantially
(more than two-fold); consequently, the area planted to cotton grew to 20,000
ha in 1973/74. Under the project, the area so used would continue to increase
to an estimated 48,000 ha.
Grains
2.        Maize, sorghum and beans are planted in the project area.  After
the drastic reduction in cotton, maize and sorghum production increased rapid-
ly, covering 97% of the total area planted in 1970. Diversification into
higher value crops - cotton, beans, vegetables -- and livestock has resulted
in increases in production value. Spurred by high Government prices, the
harvested area of beans increased spectacularly from about 1,500 ha in 1973 to
27,000 ha in 1974.
Vegetables
3.        While a large variety of vegetables is grown in the area, the dom-
inant ones are okra, squash, stringbeans, broccoli and onions. The total area
planted with horticulture crops has been increasing rapidly and reached about
5,000 ha in 1974. Under the project, it would increase further to 28,000 ha
over 10 years.
Livestock
4.        The expansion of pasture and forage production is also a recent
development. Since 1970 the area devoted to pasture and forage increased by
30% to cover 1% of the total area planted (about 3,000 ha) in 1974. Livestock,
however, both for fattening and dairy production in heterogenous herds, is, to
a large extent, still grazed on canal, drain and river banks and on crop
residues. Hence, production levels are low, as shown in the following table:



ANNEX 13
Page 2
Bajo Rio    Bajo Rio
Bravo      San Juan    Total
1.   Dairy Production
Cows (No.)                           9,478        3,041       12,519
Daily milk production (1/cow)           2.8         4.4          -
Total milk production (1)           26,538       13,380       39,918
Farmers (No.)                         1,292         245        1,537
2.   Fattening Cattle
Cows                                  2,702       1,096        3,798
Bulls                                   286         147          433
Calves                                1,661         725        2,386
Total                                 4,649       1,968        6,617
Farmers (No.)                           280          48          328
Source: SRH, 1972.
In 1972, there were also about 13,000 swine and 4,000 sheep and goats in
the area.
5.        A few small landowners and ejidatarios have begun organizing efforts
to exploit fattening or dairy cattle. Fattening cattle are usually bought from
traditional breeding areas (Chihuahua, Coahuila) or the surrounding "temporal"
areas, and, instead of being shipped to the USA for fattening, they are kept
about 200 days on irrigated land in Mexico, where they are expected to gain
about 100 kg/animal before exportation. The project area is still within the
coastal areas affected by foot and mouth disease, but an eradication campaign,
started in 1973, is expected to eliminate the disease withing three or four
years. Milk cattle are mainly Holstein, imported from the USA or Canada.
Up to 12 liters per day are obtained, both by private landowners and by a
few progressive ejidatarios who work either individually or in communal
enterprises. Until October 1974, the low milk price (Mex$ 2.25/1 at the
farm) barely covered the production cost of an intensive dairy operation but
the new price of Mex$ 3/liter for refrigerated milk is more satisfactory and
would provide adequate incentive for the proposed expansion. Another limit-
ing factor to milk production is the lack of basic technical knowledge since
no research has been conducted in the area on the adaptability of breeds or
optimum feeding conditions. The project would provide for the initiation of
a research program covering these problems (Annex 12).
Fertilization
6.        Fertilization has increased rapidly in both districts.  In 1966/67,
fertilizers were used on about 40% of the area in Bajo Rio Bravo and 47% in
Bajo Rio San Juan. During the first crop cycle of 1973, these percentages had



ANNEX 13
Page 3
increased to 82% and 85%. 1/ Fertilization is still largely confined to
crops planted during the first crop cycle because water availablity during
the second season is too uncertain to warrant the risk.
Mechanization
7.        The number of tractors 2/ and agricultural equipment has remained
stable over the years because of the lack of long- and medium-term credit.
This has led to a situation wherein much of the machinery is obsolescent.
It has also been conducive to a general reorganization of the farm machinery
fleet, which has been maintained by the farmers who have sufficiently large
holdings to justify the ownership of their own equipment. On average, there
is about one tractor for 40 ha in the project area.
Future Without Project Situation          -
8.        The future without the project is projected on the basis of
average 1970-74 areas and yields. Unless the project is carried out and
water efficiency increased, there would be no changes in the effective
water supply available from that experienced historically, and chronic
water shortages would prevail. It has been argued that, unless the drainage
is improved, there would be a continued degradation of the project lands.
However, the conservative assumption is made that the drainage problems
would remain at their present level in the absence of the project. While
there was an increase in production values in the project area in 1973 and
1974, this is due to a better-than-average water supply and does not re-
flect an average condition that would prevail without the project.
Production Costs and Net Value of Production
9.    -   Table 1 shows production costs with the project and Table 2, the
net value of production per ha by crops.
Net Value of Production With and Without Project.
10.       Tables 3 and 4 show the existing and proposed cropping pattern in
the project area. Because of continuing crop diversification since 1971,
the cropping pattern, yields and production, without the project, reflect the
1970-74 weighted average. With the project, the crop diversification pro-
cess would be accelerated, and, at full development, the areas of cotton,
beans, vegetables and pastures would be substantially increased. The
1/   245,199 ha were fertilized in 1972 (189,306 ha in District 25 and 55,893
ha in District 26) and 245,352 ha in 1973 (187,004 ha in District 25
and 58,348 in District 26).
2/   District 25:  5,019 tractors in 1972 and 4,922 in 1973.
District 26: 2,126 tractors in 1972 and 2,152 in 1973.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
cropping intensity would drop from 115% to 108% due to the increase of
perennial pasture (which would be irrigated throughout the year) and the
shortage of irrigation water for a second crop. The second seasonal cropped
area would thus be reduced from 50,000 ha to about 20,000 ha. With the
project, due to increased supply of irrigation water, drainage, land level-
ing and improved farming, crop yields would increase by 50% to 70%, depend-
ing on the crop, during the main cropping season (irrigated). During the
second season, however, when crops would receive only a supplementary
irrigation, if any, yields would remain extremely low as at present be-
cause of serious problems and risks (i.e., water shortage, poor drainage
and erratic rainstorms), which prevent and will continue to prevent ade-
quate use of farm inputs. Nonetheless, some yield increases are expected
due to the improved farming. As a result of crop diversification and
increased yields, the annual crop production would increase under the pro-
ject from about 844,000 tons to 979,000 tons, that is, by 16%. In addition,
annual milk production would increase from 14.6 million liters to 90 mil-
lion liters, and beef production, from 1,300 tons to 43,000 tons.
11.       The labor component of farm production costs shown in Table 1
averages 34% of total production costs. Without the project (Table 3),
production cost estimates for the early irrigated season are adjusted for
lower yields under current farming practices and, on average, are 20% lower.
During the late season, because of still lower yields and very little use of
farm inputs, production costs are estimated to be 40% to 70% lower, depend-
ing on the crop. Late season production costs with the project (Table 4)
are estimated to be 30% to 60% lower than the early irrigation season, due
to lower yields and less use of farm inputs. All estimates include cost
increases from June to December 1974.
12.       Table 2 shows the net income per ha by crops with the project.
Tables 3 and 4 show the net production values without the project and with
the project, respectively. The net annual production value would increase
from Mex$ 547.1 million without the project to Mex$ 1,677.1 million with
the project, an incremental value of Mex$ 1,130 million, or 207%.
January 1975



a'i                                                      MEXICO
CD
X                              BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REAILTATI0LP PR0JECT¶L
On-farm Production Costs in Mex$Aa
Machinery /            Labor.                     Materials
\0                                                    /2                             Ferti- Pesti- pub-
Tqtal   jCropping Harvesting_Cropping  Harvesting  Seed  lizer  cides _'Total
Cotton                    5,1471     1,264       72        1,425      1,220      180   110   1,200  1,490
Grains:                                6310                                      10 25          6       o
Maize                  2,747        653      595         844         150      180   265      60    505
Sorghum                2,493        722      648         688         -        120   265      50    435
Wheat                  2,378        650      567          405        -        330   360       66    756
Beans                  2,646        882      120         588         256      600   150      50    800
Forages:
Sorghum or Maize       3,568        660      788          936        504      300   300       80    680
Oats                   2,990        660      657          840        102      242   165     324    731
Colza                  3,287        820      788          888        122       53   407     209    669
Guar                   3,276        820      153         809          86      792   407     209  1,408
Horticulture Crops
Okra                   9,807      1,042      760       1,215       6,520       44   132      94    270
Squash                 3,506        582      314          952        821      254   517      66    837
Stringbeans            4,426        660      580         826      1,025       938   324      73  1,335
Broccoli               3,548        936      140       1,081         836       93  407       55    555
Onions                 4,726        989      768        1,108        585      814   407      55  1,276
Oil Seeds
Sesame                 2,233        660      326          812         72       26   145     192    363
Groundnuts             3,060        939      286          970        392      165   308     -       473
Flax Seed/Stmflower   2,809         992      224         662          54      198   484     195    877
Sorghum Escobero          2,603        660      152         831         448      132   300      80    512
1/ Includes a 20% cost increase - June to end 1974.                                                                9!
7/ Includes transportation to point of delivery.
3/ Includes herbicides.



MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Net Income per Hectare
Yields  Prod. Price  Gross Income    Prod. Costs    NIBT1/   Taxes    NIAT?/ Crop Ins.   NIBWC 2
Ton/ha   Mex$/ton      Mex$/ha          Hex$/ha    Mex$/a  Mex$/ha  Mex$/ha   Mex$/ha    Mex$/ha
Cotton                2.5     5,200         13,000           5,471        7,529      361    7,168        562      6,606
Grains
Sorghum            4.5     1,200          5,400           2,493        2,907      168    2,739        137      2,602
Maize              4.5      1,500         6,750           2,747        4,003      202    3,801        175      3,626
Beans              1.5     6,000          9,000           2,646       6,354       252    6,102        175      5,927
Forages:
Sorghum and Maize 35.0-      200          7,000           3,568       3,432      .199    3,233         _       3,233
Oats              25.0        350         8,750           2,990        5,760      242    5,518         -       5,518
Colza             35.0       150          5,250           3,287        1,963      155    1,80          -       1,808
Guar               1.5     3,000          4,500           3,276       1,224       136    1,088         -       1,088
Horticultural Crops
Okra               8.0     2,200         17,600           9,807        7,793      481    7,312         -       7,312
Squash            10.0     1,500         15,000           3,506       11,494      420   11,074         -      11,074
String Beans       5.01    3,600         18,000           4,426       13,574      484   13,090         -      13,090
Broccoli           4.0     3,500         14,000           3,548       10,452      382   10,070         -      10,070
Onions             8.0     1,500         12,000           4,726        7,274      341    6,933         -       6,933
oil Seeds
Sesame             1.0     6,ooo          6,000           2,233        3,767      176    3,591        175      3,416
Groundnuts         2.0     5,000         10,000           3,060        6,940      278    6,662         -       6,662
Flax Seed          2.0     3,000          6,ooo           2,809        3,191      178    3,013         -       3,013
Sorghum Escobero      2.5      3,000         7,500           2,603        4,897      216    4,681                 4,681
2 Net income before taxes.
I Net income after taxes.
/ Net income before water charges.



MEXICO
BAJ0 RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHIABILITATION PROJECT
Cropping Pattern, Production, Costs and Net Value of Production
Without the Project jj
Gross Pro-       Production Costs        Net Value of
crops                        Area    Yields    Production       Prices      duction Value   Labor         Other       Production
(ha)  (ton/ha)  (ton'000)  (Mex$/ton)-               -           -(Mex$ million)-'-
A.   Irrigated
Seasonal
Cotton                      10,000    1.47         14.75        5,200          76.70          21.86       23.35          31.49
Maize                       82,360    2.99        246.25        1,500         369.38          67.65      119.31         182.42
Sorghum                   171,500    2.99         513.58        1,200         616.30          97.50      255.83         262.97
Wheat                           30    1.67          0.05         1,500           0.08           -          0.05           0.03
Beans                          320    0.84          0.27        6,000            1.62          0.22        0.48           0.92
Forage_2/                      574   17.72         10.17          350            0.50.3/       0.10        0.20           0,20
Okra                         2,010    4.70          9.45        2,200           20.79          3.10        3.44          14.25
Squash                         540    2.44          1.32        1,500            1.98          0.80        0.78           0.40
Stringbeans                     65    3.38          0.22        3,600            0.79          0.10        0.C9           0.60
Various Vegetables              45    6.00,         0.27        2,500            0.68          0.07        0.07           0.54
Groundnuts                       9    1.50          0.02        5,000            0.10          0.01        0.02           0.07
Sorghum Escobero               251    1.38          0.35        3,000            1.05          0.27        0.28           0.50
Subtotal               267,704                 796.70                    1,089.97         191.68      403.90         494.39
Perennial
Pasture                      2,160   milk          14.60 A       3.00  N       43.80          10.00       22.12          11.68
beef                                                                                 4.68
Subtotal                 2,160                                                                                        16.36
Total Irrigated               269,864                                                                                      510.75
B.   Dry-Farming
Seasonal
Maize                       37,275    0.90          33.46        1,500          50.19         11.12       19.60           19.47
Sorghum                      7,950    1.28         10.20         1,200          12.24          1.64        4.30           6.30
Beans                        4,892    0.56           2.76       6,000           16.56          2.34        5.00            9.22
Squash                         215    1.63          0.35        1,500            0.53          0.22        0.22            0.09
Broccoli                         5    2.00          0.01        3,500            0.04          0.01        0.01            0.02
Various                        402    1.59           0.64        2,500           1,60          0.20        0.20            1.20
Total Dry-Farming              50,739                  47.42                       81.16         15.53        29.33          36.30
Grand Total                320,603                                                                                      547.05
1'  1970-1974 weightei average.
,   Mainly maize and sorghum but also colza, guar and oats.
/ 1,430 tonts of oats only; the rest is included in beef and milk produotion value.
/  Millions of liters.
B/  Mex$/l.
Sale of 4,231 cows and bulls at net income of Mex$ 965 each and 2,386 calves at net income of Mex$ 250 each.
w 



C.                                                                                             MEXICO
c
BAJO RIO BRAVO ANtD BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cropping Pattern. Production, Costs and Net Value of Production
With the Project
Gross Produc-  Production Costs      Net Value
Crops                          Area   Yields   Production    Prices    tion Value       Labor      Other     of Production
(ha)  (     ton/ha)  (ton '000)  (Mex$/ton) -  -(Mex$ million)- - - - - - -
A.   Irrigated
Seaso nal
Cotton                    48,000    2.5       120.0        5,200        624.00     126.96       135.65      361.39
Maize                     55,000    4.5        247.5       1,500        371.25      54.67        96.42      220.16
Sorghum                   78,000    4.5       351.0        1,200        421.20      53.66       140.79      226.75
Beans                     23,000    1.5        34.5        6,000        207.00       19.41       41.45      146.14
Okra                       5,000    8.0        40.0        2,200         88.00      38.67        10.36       38.97
Squash                     4,000   10.0        40.0        1,500         60.00       7.09         6.93       45.98
Stringbeans               12,000    5.0        60.0        3,600        216.00      22.21        30.90      162.89
Various Vegetables jj      2,500    6.7         16.7       2,500         41.75        8.09        5.74       27.92
Sesame                     7,000    1.0         7.0        6,000         42.00       6.19         9.44       26.37
Groundnuts                11,000    2.0         22.0       5,000        110.00       14.98       18.68       76.34
Flaxseed                   2.500    2.0         5.0        3,000         15.00        1.79        5.23        7.98
Subtotal              248,000              943.7                   2,196.20     353.72       501.59    1,340.89
Perennial                                         9
Pasture-Dairy 1/          10,000              90.O00I                   296.52       36.42      116.57      143.53
Pasture-Beef  i/          22.000              43.01                     516.14       34.98      326.48      154.68
Subtotal               32,000                                        812.66       71.40      443.05      298.21
Total Irrigated          280,000                                      3,008.86      425.12      944.64    1,639.10
B.   Dry-Farming
Seasonal
Maize                      5,000    1.2          6.00      1,500          9.00        1.99        3.51         3.50
Sorghum                    6,500    1.7         11.05      1,200         13.26        1.79        4.69         6.78
Beans                      4,000    0.8          3.20      6,000         19.20        2.36        5.05        11.79
Squash                     2,200    2.2          4.84      1,500          7.26        2.73        2.67         1.86
Broccoli                   1,200    2.6          3.12      3,500         10.92        1.61        1.37         7.94
Onions                     1,200    4.0          4,80      1,500          7.20        1.42        2.55         3.23
Various                    1.100    2.0          2.20      2,500          5.50        1.20        1.43         2.87
Total Dry-Farming         21,200                35.21                    72.34       13.10       21.27        37.97
Grand Total              301,200                                      3,081.20      438.22      965.91    1,677.07
1/ Weighted average of okra, squash and stringbeans.
1/  250 units of 40 ha ep,h wiL:h 30 ha pasture.  For details on production value and costs, see Annex 14, Table 6
3!  220 units of 100 ha each.  For details on production values and costs see Annex 14, Table 5.
_ / Millions of liters.
41



ANNEX 14
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Farm Models
1.        The four farm models shown in Tables 1 through 4 give the net income
for the following farms:
Model     Type      Area                            Crops
I    Ejido        10 ha      Cotton, maize, sorghum, beans, vegetables.
II    Ejido         10 ha     As in Model I, but with pasture for dairy.
III    Small                   Cotton, maize, sorghum, beans, groundnuts,
Landowner   22 ha      okra, broccoli and pasture for fattening.
IV    Colono        13 ha     Cotton, maize, sorghum, beans, stringbeans,
groundnuts, pasture for dairy.
2.        The areas represent the average farm size for each farm type (Annex
3, Table 1).  Cotton, maize, sorghum, and beans are the main crops in all
cropping patterns, with representative minor crops added for purposes of the
model. Because of the constant core of main crops, the results to be obtained
using various other minor crops would not significantly differ from those
shown in the tables. Yields, prices, and production costs used in the farm
budget calculations are shown in Annex 13, Tables 1 and 2.
3.        Production  costs include all labor costs for skilled and unskilled
help, the latter being supplied generally by family memb4rs. This portion of
the cost has been estimated, on average, for all crops, at one-half of total
labor cost, and the income to the family from such work has been accounted
for under the item, "other incomes from labor on the farm." Since some
family members on small ejido and colono farms would not find sufficient
employment opportunities at home, they would be employed outside the farm for
about 65 mandays per year. While the project would help increase the on-farm
family labor requirements, prevailing under-employment conditions in the area
would prevent a significant increase of hired labor. This element has there-
fore been maintained at the current level of 65 mandays per year.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Livestock Operations
4.        Fattening and dairy cattle farms, about 100 ha and 40 ha in size,
respectively, would be formed by grouping plots having marginal soils for
crops other than pasture and owned by several farmers. These enterprises
would be operated as communal farms or through farmers' associations
(Annex 13). Both types of groupings are currently operating satisfactorily in
the area and dairy farm associations are also operating successfully in the
Lagunera project. In Farm Models II, III and IV, farmers have been assumed
to participate with a portion of their land in an association or communal
enterprise. The net income per farm of the livestock operations is given in
Tables 5 and 6. The area under pasture for each group of farmers is limited
by the water availability (Annex 6).
Taxation and Insurance
5.        Several types of taxes are levied:
(a) a federal tax of Mex$ 2.20 per ton of any product (except
cotton on which the tax is Mex$ 4.85 per ton);
(b) a state tax of Mex$ 23.50 per hectare per year; and
(c) an income tax of 2.5Z of gross production value.
Crop insurance premiums are paid on cotton (Mex$ 562 per ha), maize, beans
and sesame (Mex$ 175 per ha) and sorghum (Mex$ 137 per ha).
January 1975



MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farm Budget of a 10 ha Elido Farm (Model I)
Without the Project                                         With the Project
Gross.  Production    Net                          Gross   Production    Net
Area   Yield    Income    Costs       Income      Area   Yield      Income    Costs       Income  Farmgate Price
(ha)  (ton/ha)  - - - - (Nex$)-                  (ha)  (ton/ha)            _   e-                    (Mex$/ton)
Field Operations
A-   First Season
Cotton                                      0.5    1.47      3,822      2,261      1,561      1.5    2.5         19,500    8,206      11,294         5,200
Maize                                       3.4    2.99    15,249       7,718      7,531      3.5    4.5         23,625    9,615       14,010         1,500
Sorghum                                     5.5    2.99    19,734    11,331        8,403      3.0    4.5         16,200    7,479       8,721          1,200
Beans                                       0.5    0.84      2,520      1,094      1,426      1.0    1.5          9,000    2,646       6,354          6,000
Vegetables                                  0.1    4.20      1,050        318        732      1.0    6.7         16,750    5,532      11.218          2,500
Subtotal                                      10.0             42,375    22,722    19,653        10.0               85,075   33,478       51,597
8.   Second Season
Maize                                       0.7    0.90         945       577        368      0.4    1.2            720       400         320         1,500
Sorghum                                     0.2    1.28        307        149        158      0.3    1.7            612       299         313         1,200
Beans                                       0.3    0.56       1,008       450        558      0.4    0.8          1,920       741       1,179         6,000
Vegetables                                  0.1    1.64        410        209        201      0.2    2.8          1.400       537         863         2,500
Subtotal                                        1.3              2.670     1.385      1.285       1.3                4.652    1.977        2,675
C.   Total                                          11.3             45,045    24,107    20,938       11.3               89,727   35,455       54,272
Overhead Costs
Administration (10X of fields costs)                                                  2,411                                                3,546
Interest (7.5. in 6 months)                                                           1.808 
Subtotal                                                                              4,219                                                6,-205
Net Income after Overhead Charges                                                          16,719                                               48,067
Other Incomes:  Labor-on the farm   /                                                       4,098                                                6,027
Labor outside the farm (65 days)                                           3.,380                                               3.380
Subtotal                                                                              7,478               -                                 9,407
Taxes and Insurance                                                                         3,347                                                4.806
Net Income before Water Charges                                                            20,850                                               52,668
.j/ Estimated as half of the labor component (Annex 13, Table 1).  The other half is skilled labor.
411



MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN RFHABILITATION PROJECT
Farm Budget of a 10 ha Elido Farm (Model II)
Without the Project                                   With the Project
Gross   Production    Net                       Gross   Production    Net   Farmgate
Area  Yield    Income    Costs      Income    Area   Yield    Income    Costs        Income    Price
(ha) (ton/ha)  - - - - (Mex$) - - - - - -    (ha)  (ton/ha)  -- - - -   (Mex$/ton)
Field Operations
A.   First Season
Cotton             0.5   1.47       3,822   2,261       1,561     0.7      2.5      9,100   3,830       5,270       5,200
Maize              3.4   2.99      15,249   7,718       7,531      3.5     4.5      23,625   9,615      14,010      1,500
Sorghum            5.5   2.99      19,734  11,331       8,403     3.5      4.5     18,900   8,726       10,174      1,200
Beans              0.5   0.84       2,520   1,094       1,426      1.0     1.5      9,000   2,646        6,354      6,000
Vegetables         0.1              1,050      318        732       -       -          -       -           -        2,500
Pasture  1/         -      -          _        _          -        1.3             38548  19,890        18.658    (Table 6)
Subtotal              10.0            42,375  22,722      19,653    10.0               99,173  44,707      54,466
B.   Second Season
Maize              0.7   0.90         945      577        368       -                 -       -           -          1,500
Sorghum            0.2   1.28         307      149        158                -                -           -         1,200
Beans              0.3   0.56       1,008     450         558       -       -                             -         6,000
Vegetables         0.1   1.64         410      209        201                                 -           -          2,500
Pasture  I /                 -       -                     -       1.3      -         _       _ 
Subtotal               1.3             2,670   1.385       1.285      1.3      _         -       _
C.   Total                 11.3             45,045  24,107      20,938    11.3              99,173  44,707      54,466
Overhead Costs
Administration (10% of field costs)                         2,411                                           2,482  X
Interest- seasonal credit                                  1,808                                            1,861
-diary farm debt payments                            -                                             8.710
Subtotal                                                   4,219                                           13,053
Net Income after Overhead Charges                               16,719                                          41,413
other Income-labor on the farm 2/                                4,098                                            7,600
-labor outside the farm (65 days)                   3.380                                            3,380
Subtotal                                                    7,478                                          10,980
Taxes and Insurance                                              3,347                                            3,57b
Net Income before Water Charges                                 20,850                                           48,819
_L/ As part of an association of about 30 members in a 40 ha-dairy farm.
2/ Estimated as half of the labor component (Annex 13, Table 1).  The other half is skilled labor.
.   Less administration already accounted for on the dairy farm.



MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farm Budget of a 22 ha Small Landowner Farm (Model III)
Po
Without the Project                                        With the Proiect
Gross   Production    Net                          Gross   Production    Net   Farngate
Area   Yield    Income    Costs        Income      Area   Yield    Income    Costs         Income    Price
(ha)  (ton/ha)  - - - -                              aMex$)-(ha)  (ton/ha)  - - - - (Mex$) -  -   -(Mex$/ton)
Field Operations
A.   First Season
Cotton                               1.0      1.47      7,644    4,521       3,123       4.0    2.5       52,000    21,884    30,116   5,200
Maize                                 6.5     2.99    29,152   14,755    14,397          4.0    4.5       27,000    10,988    16,012   1,500
Sorghum                             14.0      2.99    50,232   28,843    21,389          7.6    4.5       41,040    18,947    22,093   1,200
Beans                                 -        -          -         -          -         2.0    1.5       18,000      5,292    12,708   6,000
Groundnuts                            -        -                   -           -         1.0    2.0       10,000       3,060      6,940   5,000
Okra                                  0.5     4.70      5,170    1,557       3,613       0.6    8.0        10,560      5,884      4,676   2,200
Pasture _/ (fattening cattle)         -                   -         -          -         2.8      -       65,691    46,010    19.681 (Table 5)
Subtotal                                22.0              92,198   49,676    42,522        22.0              224,291   112,065   112,226
B.   Second Season
Maize                                 1.7     0.90      2,295    1,400         895                                                         1,500
Sorghum                               0.7     1.28      1,075       523        552                                                         1,200
Beans                                 0.3     0.56      1,008       450        558                                                         6,000
Broccoli                             0.1      2.00        700       400        300                                                         3,500
Pasture                                -                             -          _        2.8      -          -          -          -         _
Subtotal                                 2.8               5.078    2.773       2,305       2.8                 -          -        -
C.   Total                                   24.8               97,276   52,449    44,827        24.8             224,291   112,065   112,226
Overhead Costs
Administration (10°h of.field costs)                                            5,245                                                6,606  2/
Interest payments-seasonal credit (7.5% in 6 months)                            3,934                                                4,954
-livestock debt charge                                                                                             4.950
Subtotal                                                                        9,179                                               16,510
Net Income After.Overhead Charges                                                    35,648                                               95,716
Other lncome - Labor on the Farm  -3                                                  8,916                                                8,916
Taxes and Insurance                                                                   7.163                                               10.029
Net Income before Water Charges                                                      37,401                                               94,603
_/ As part of an association of about 36 members in a 100-ha cattle fattening farm.
/ Less administration already accounted for on the cattle fattening farm.
2  Estimated as half of the labor component (Annex 13, Table 1).  The other half is skilled labor.
a Q
w 3



MEXICO
BAJO RI0 MAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
FarW Budget of a 13 ha Coloeo Farm (Model IV)
Without the Project                                    With the Project
VI                                              Groga   Production    Net                         Gross   Production    Net   Farugate
Area   Yield    Tncome    Costs       Income      Area   Yield    Income    Costs       Income    Price
(ha)  (ton/ha)           ( - - -            -     hex$)-(ha)  (ton/ha)  - - - - (Mex$)-- (Mex$/ton)
Field Operatiots*
A.   First Season
Cotton             -      -          -        -           -        2.0     2.5       26,000   10,942       15,058   5,200
Maize            5.5     2.99      24,660   12,485      12,175    2.5      4.5       16,875    6,868       10,007   1,500
Sorghum          6.5     2.99      23,322   13,391       9,931    3.0      4.5       16,200    7,479       8,721   1,200
Beans            0.5     0.84       2,520    1,094       1,426    1.8      1.5       16,200    4,763       11,437   6,000
Stringbeans      0.5     3.38       6,084    1,461       4,623    1.0      5.0       18,000    4,426       13,574   3,600
Groundnuts        -       -           -       -           -        1.0     2.0       10,000    3,060       6,940   5,000
Pasture -/                -          _        -           -        1.7      -        50,409   26,010       24,399 (Table 6)
Subtotal           13.0               56,586   28,431      28,155   13.0               153,684   63,548       90,136
B.   Second Season
Maixe            0.7     0.90         945       577        368      -
Sorghum         0.8      1.28       1,229      598         631      -
Beans            0.2     0.56         672      300         372
Pasture J/        -       -           -          -        . -      1.7      -          -         -           -
Subtotal            1.7                2.846    1,475       1.371    1 7        -         _                     -
C.   Total              14.7               59,432   29,906       29,526   14.7               153,684   63,548      90,136
Overhead Costs
Administration (107, of field costs)                         2,991                                             3,754  2!
Interest Payments (seasonal credit)                         2,243                                              2,815
Debt Charges for Livestock                                                                                    11.390
Subtotal                                                    5,234                                             17,959
Net Income after Overhead Charges                                24,292                                            72,177
Other Income:  Labor on the Farm  3/.                             5,084                                             7,467
Labor Outside the Farm (65 days)                  3,380                                             3,380
Subtotal                                                     8,464                                            10,847
Taxes and Insurance                                               4.086                                             6.193
Income after Taxes                                               28,670                                             76,831
v  As part of an association of about 24 members in a 40-ha dairy farm.
1   Less administration already accounted for on the dairy farm.
3/Estimated as half of the labor component (Annex 13, Table 1.). The other half is skilled labor.



ANNEX 14
Table 5
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
100 ha Cattle Fattening Farm
Investment Costs
1.   Pasture Establishment
Machinery      Labor       Materials /1   Total
--H(Mex$/ha)--------------- - 
Bermuda Cruza - 1            635           490           623         1,748
Estrella Africana            635           490           813         1,938
Average                 635          490            718         1,843
In 100 ha             Mex$ 184,300
2.   Installation Cost for a 100 ha Farm
Fencing at Mex$ 7,000/km for 6/km                   42,000         -
Corral (20 x 20 m)                                  20,000
Pump and portable watering tank                     11,700
Horse and saddle                                     9,000
Miscellaneous (salt distributors, scale, etc)        4,000    86,700
Total investment cost per farm of 100 ha:               Mex$ 271,000
For larger farms, economies of scale would be minimal and the cost
of this model would be extrapolated, proportionately to size.
1/   Fertilizers:  both 425.
Seed: Bermuda, 198; Estrella, 390.



ANNEX 14
Table 5
Page 2
Operating Costs
Unit Costs
1.   Pasture Maintenance                                           Mex$/ha
Fertilizer: 6 applications of 150 kg urea at Mex$ 1,450/ton 1,305
Irrigation Labor                                                1,290
2,595
-    Pasture renewal every 5 to 6 years at Mex$ 350/ha as from year 3.
2.   Other Operating Costs
-    Vaccinations and animal health:  Mex$ 6 per animal purchased
-    Supplementary feeding:  50 grams of salt per day per animal at
Mex$ 1.2/kg for dressing during the last 7 days at
Mex$ 0.4/kg
-    Transportation from farm to border:  Mex$ 10 per animal sold
-    Labor:  2 Vaqueros per farm of 100 ha at Mex$ 15,000 each
-    Organization and overhead for 100-ha farm, Mex$25,000
-    Taxes for cattle:  Mex$ 50/animal sold
-          for land:    Mex$ 23.35/ha
For a 100-ha Farm
1.   Gross Income for 100-ha Farm
Years 1      2        3 and thereafter
 ------------ ex$ '000       ------------
Number of animals                 500      600           700
Weight gained over 210 days
kg/animal                      84       94           105
Weight at sale kg/animal          264      274           285
Mortality ratio (X)                 4        3             2
Animals sold                      480      582           686
Gross income at Mex$ 12/kg in
Mex$ '000                   1,520    1,913         2,346



ANNEX 14
Table 5
Page 3
---------  Mex$ '000 --------
2.   Total Operating Costs for 100-ha Farm
Pasture maintenance and replacement  259.6         259.6      294.6
Purchase of animals of 180 kg at
Mex$ 10/kg 1/                     900.0    1,080.0    1,260.0
Vaccination and feeding                 18.8        22.7       26.7
Vaqueros and overheads                  55.0        55.0       55.0
Transportation                           4.8         5.8        6.9
1,238.2    1,423.1    1,643.2
3.   Net Income Before Taxes and
Debt Repayment                    282.4      490.5       702.9
4.   Interest on Seasonal Credit (Items 1-4)
1.2% interest per month           93.6       109.9       125.9
Long-term credit                              --         50.9        50.9
Subtotal                           93.6      160.8       176.8
5.   Net Income Before Taxes                     188.8       329.7       526.5
6.   Taxes:  Mex$ 50/animal sold and
Mex$ 23.35/ha                           26.3        31.4       36.6
7.   Net Income After Taxes                      162.5       298.3       489.5
or Mex$ 4,895/ha
1/   Over nine years at 12% per year.



ANNEX 14
Table 6
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
40 ha Dairy Cattle Farm
Mex$/ha
1.   Pasture Establishment:
Bermuda Cruza: 1   Machinery (only operating costs)             635
Labor                                      490
Materials                                  623
1,748
Over 30 ha                                   52,440
2.   Constructions:
Stable, house, silos, water distribution system,
fencing                                                265,500
Equipment: milking, refrigeration tanks, and
tools and electrification                              250,000
iSubtotal:                                   515,500
3.   Animals:
60 cows at Mex$ 8,000 each                                  480,000
Total Initial Investment:                 1,047,940
4.   Unit Costs of Operation:
a)   Silage production (colza and maize):  average of Mex$ 2,200/ha
with half the labor requirements provided for by on-farm employees.
b)   Pasture Maintenance:  Mex$ 2,500/ha
c)   Employees:  total for 40 ha: Mex$ 107,000/year
1.   Foreman        Mex$ 30,000/year
2.   Cattleman       "   54,000/year
3.   Workman         I   23,000/year
Subtotal           Mex$ 107,000/year



ANNEX 14
Table 6
Page 2
d)   Maintenance of construction (5%)
machinery (10%)                                Mex$ 38,275/year
e)   Cost of electricity:                           Mex$  6,400/year
f)   Animal feeding and care:
Concentrates and salt:         3.6 kg/day per animal at Mex$ 1.65/
kg; Mex$ 5.94/animal/day or
Mex$ 1,782/animal for 300 days of
lactation
Alimentation:
- During the lactation period: about 1,025 kg dry weight of
concentrates per 45.4 kg oE animal liveweight 1/ or 10.8
kg/day/animal
- During the remaining period: about 0.68 kg/day per 45.4 kg
of animal weight or 7.2 kg/day/animal
- Thus, on average, one animal needs 3.7 tons of dry material
per year or 18.5 tons of green material (at 80% water content)
Farm Production:
- Pasture producing on 30 ha at 65 tons/ha - 1,950
- Forage (colza and maize) on 10 ha at 35 tons/ha - 350 tons
TOTAL                                        2,300 tons
This would feed an adult herd of about 125 animals
Veterinary services:
- Vaccination and care (Mex$ 530/animal, including that of
calves)
- Insemination: Mex$ 250/cow
1/   Animals of  480 kg on average.
January 1975



ANNEX 14
Table 6
Page 3
Dairy Cattle Program--Herd Build-up (number of animals)
Years    1       2        3       4       5        6 and thereafter
Animals
Milk cow purchases            40      20       --      --      --       --      --
Milk cows,total       ,       4       58       62      75      95      116     125
Mortality rates (%)
Adults                         5       4        3       2       2        2       2
Calves                         5       5        5       5       5        5       5
Birth rates                   70      80       80      80      80       80      80
Calves,females (No.)          14      23       2h      30      38       h6      50
Calves,males (No.)            14      23       25      30      38       46      50
Calves, heifers--1 year (No.) --      13       22      23      28       36      24
2 year (No.)--        --       6      10      10       13      12
Sales,males (No.)             13      21       23      29      36       44      48
Sales,-females (No.)          --      --       --      --      --       23      25
Old cows (No.)                --      --       --      --      --       --      24
Fattening cattle
(animal/ha)              (5)102  (6)96   (7)106  (7)82   (7)50   (7)15       --
Production of forage (ton)
at 35 tons/ha              350     350     350      350     350     350      350
Requirements for
Milk cattle               120     162      174     213     266      321     350
Fattening cattle           36      34      37       2       18        5       _
Sub-total            -19      189      211                              350
Sales                     194     154     139      108      66      24       --
Production of milk
1/animal/day                  10      11       12      12      12       12      12
Total '000 1/year            96.0   153.0   178.6   218.9    273.8   334.0  360.0
December 18, 1974



ANNEX 14
Table 6
Pag e 4
Dairy Cattle Program--Annual Income from a 40-ha Farm
(Mex$ '000)
Years      1        2       3        4       5          6         7 and
thereafter
1.  Gross Income
Net sales of
- Fattening animals l/
- at Mex$ 3,h20/animal        154.8   149.0   164.5   127.2    77.6         23.3      --
- Milk at Mex$ 3/liter        288.0   459.0   535.8   656.7   821.4        100.2   1,080.0
- Old cows at Mex$ 3,400                                                              81.6
- Calves:  Males,Mex$ 250       3.0      5.2     5.8      7.2     9.0       11.0      12.0
Females,Mex$ 500   --       _-       __      __       --        11.5       12.5
Sales of forage                67.9    68.6    48.6    37.8    23.1          8.4      --
Total Gross Income         513.7   681.8   754.7   828.9   931.1   1,056.2   1,186.1
2., Operating Costs
Pasture maintenance and
replacement                 77.9    77.9    77.9    77.9    77.9         77.9      77.9
Forage cultivation             22.2    22.2    22.2    22.2    22.2         22.2      22.2
Concentrates
Fattening cattle            25.7    24.2    26.7    20.7    12.6         3.8       __
Milk cattle                 57.0    82.7    88.4   108.3   135.4       165.4      178.2
Medical services
Milk cattle                 21.2    30.7    32.9    39.8    50.4         61.5      66.2
Fattening cattle             0.6      0.6     0.6      0.5     0.3       0.1       --
Inmmintio4 Mex$ 250kU.k cow  10.0    14.5    15.5    19.0    24.0           29.0      31.2
Salaries                      107.0
Electrical energy,
building maintenance        45.2
Administration and Misc.       55.0
Subtotal               207.2   207.2   207.2   207.2   207.2       207.2      207.2
Fattened cattle transpor-
tation, Mex$ 10              1.0     1.0      1.1     0.8      0.5       0.2       --
Contingencies, 5%              21.1    23.1    23.6    24.8    26.5         28.4      29.1
Subtotal,Operating Costs  443.9   484.1   496.1   521.2   557.0        595.7      612.0
Net Income from Operations    69.8   197.7   258.6   307.7   374.1         460.5     574.1
1/ Including decreasing mortality ratio of 3% the first year and 2% thereafter, purchases
at 180 kg at Mex$ 10/kg, and resale at 285 k-gat Mex$ 12/kg.
December 18, 1974



ANNEX 14
Table 6
Page 5
Dairy Cattle Program--Annual Net Income from a 40-ha Farm
(Mex$ '000)
Year       1       2       a       L                  6         7 and
thereafter
Net income from
Operation (page 4)         69.8   197.7   258.6   307.7   374.1      460.5     574.1
Net Insurance Payments        21.3    23.1    25.2    23.7    21.8       19.6       18.8
Net Income Before Debt
Payment                    48.5  174.6   233.4   784.0   352.3       440.9     555.3
Debt Paymentsl/ Long term            152.4   171.6   171.6   268.0      268.0      268.0
Net Income Before Credit      48.5    22.2    61.8   112.4    84.3      172.9      287.3
Taxes                          6.6     6.6      7.2     6.2     4.9       3.4        2.8
Net Income After Taxes        41.9    15.6   54.6   106.2    79.4       169.5      2
1/ Includes first year of operations (half of costs) at 12%/year interest charges and
three years' grace on capital.
December 18, 1974



Annex 15
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Markets and Marketing
Markets
1.        The project would give rise to increased production of cattle,
milk, vegetables, cotton, beans and oilseeds as against a reduction in the
output of sorghum and corn from the area. This would be consistent with
market prospects. As a result of rapid population growth and rising incomies,
Mexico is facing growing deficits in major staples (grains, oilseeds, dairy
products). Present trends in demand are likely to continue for several dec-
ades, with overall demand for food growing by at least 5% p.a. However, as
large segments of the population still suffer from malnutrition, 1/ demand
for livestock and livestock-related commodities (beef, milk, feed grains) may
well grow faster. Table 1 shows current production levels, projected demand,
and production to be generated by the project.
2.        Cotton and feeder cattle are traditionally export commodities.
The market outlook for Mexican cotton was reviewed in great detail in the
appraisal report of the 1973 Panuco Irrigation Project (300-ME) (Annex 18),
and it was concluded that Mexico's medium and long cotton had a well estab-
lished position on the world market. As to feeder cattle, many U.S. ranchers
across the Rio Grande have become dependent on import of animals for finish-
ing. Between 500,000 and 1 million head have been exported annually to the
U.S. for many years. Efforts to stem this flow and export beef instead have
led to somewhat lower numbers lately. Long-term world projections show
favorable prospects for cattle producers.
3.        The project area's location on the border with the U.S. and the
large wage differential for unskilled labor between the two countries (roughly
1:4) gives it a substantial comparative advantage in the production of such
labor-intensive vegetables as okra, stringbeans and squash. 2/ Although
production of these and other vegetables for the U.S. market has been going
on for several years, it takes place on an incidental basis, mainly for the
U.S. fresh market when U.S. production areas are affected by adverse climatic
conditions. For three years, however, subsidiaries of major U.S. frozen food
1/   cf. IBRD, The Economy of Mexico, Vol. III, para. 363.
2/   Other vegetables such as broccoli, onions, and cauliflower are also
grown in the area, but their development is expected to remain modest.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
companies established on the Texas side of the border have relied on Mexican
supplies of the vegetables mentioned. This trade occurs under contracts
made before each planting season. U.S. production is expected to drop fur-
ther, due to the labor requirements in cultivation and harvesting, and the
U.S. market to grow moderately. Marketing prospects for vegetables are
therefore quite favorable, at least for the quantities envisaged in this
report. These quantities also take account of rising domestic demand in the
project area and surroundings.
4.        In general, market demand for production to be generated under the
project is likely to be assured. If actual demand were to deviate from
projected demand, the versatility of production in the project area is such
that an adjustment could be made easily.
Marketing
5.        Favorable prospects for market demand for the commodities to be
produced in the project area must be seen in combination with (a) a national
price policy for the main crops under which the Government Marketing Agency,
CONASUPO, intervenes as a residual buyer when market prices drop to a level
announced before each planting season, and (b) satisfactory marketing arrange-
ments in the project area.
6.        Transport.  The project area has adequate road and rail connections
with Monterrey, Tampico and Mexico City. Three bridges cross the Rio Bravo
to connect the area with the U.S. road system.
7.        Storage.  Storage capacity in the project area is 600,000 tons,
virtually all of which is currently used for storage of corn and sorghum, the
predominant crops. Under the envisaged crop diversification, storage require-
ments would be more evenly spread over the year and the existing capacity
would become more than adequate. If for one reason or another, additional
capacity had to be added, the private sector could be expected to do this.
If not, the Government's on-going construction program would take care of
the situation, although in that eventuality additional capacity would not be
constructed in the project area itself, but further inland where climatic
conditions are better for storage.
8.        Processing.  For the major products requiring processing--cotton,
oil seeds, milk, and vegetables-the situation is as follows:
(a) For a number of years, until several years ago, the project area
was almost entirely under cotton, and in 1959 there were over 100
ginneries. With the drastic drop in cotton cultivation; most of
these have fallen into disuse and currently only seven facilities
are still operating, with a total qapacity of some 40,000 bales per
season. Virtually none of this was used in the 1970/71 and 1971/72



ANNEX 15
Page 3
season, and 17,000 bales were processed in 1972/73. Present cotton
acreage is expected to double under the project, which would require
a ginning capacity of some 100,000 bales. Consequently, additional
ginning capacity would need to be re-installed.
(b) The capacity to process oil seeds is about 40,000 tons per season.
Less than 10% of this is used now, but, under the project, utiliza-
tion would probably rise to 30%.
(c) Existing milk processing capacity is 120,000 liters per day, of
which one-third is used. Under the project, milk production is
envisaged to increase to about 250,000 liters per day, but as the
increase would be gradual and as additional processing can be added
quickly, it should not be of major concern. In Mexico's Lagunera
project, milk output increased manyfold in a few years without any
problems regarding processing.
(d) Vegetables for the U.S. frozen food market are now trucked by pro-
ducers to three plants across the border, all three subsidiaries
of different companies and all three working well under capacity.
If output is to grow along the lines envisaged, additional capacity
would be required in four to six years' time. In view of present
custom regulations, processing would continue to be done on the
U.S. side of the border.
January 1975



Annex 15
Table 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Comparison of Current National Production,
Projected Demand and the Project's Production
Estimated           Projected
Productior         T~qtal Demand      Project Production
1973Y-       1 976zL/    20003/    at Full Develooment
------------------ 1000 metric tons -------------'------
Cotton fibers                      3902/        47          97/-             4
Maize                            9,800       11,700      22O,500            250
Sorghum                          2,9002/      4,300/   13,700-              360
Beans                              900        1,200./    3,300Y/              38
Cotton seed                        640          n-.a.       n.a.             80
Sesame                             165          250         850                7
Groundnuts                          802/        n.a.        n.a.              5
Vegetables                       1,5002/8/      n.a.        n.a.            17709/
Beef                               5407Or       7001/    2,3007/             40
Milk                               n.a.       7,100         n.a.             90
1/   Sources: IBRD - The Economy of Mexico, June 27, 1973 and CONASUPO.
2/   1971
3/   Source:  IBRD - The Economy of Mexico, June 27, 1973.
T:/  Including export demand of 200,000 tons and 250,000 tons,respectively.
§/   Including export demand of 600,000 tons and 1,600,000 tons,respectively.
6/   Including export demand of 100,000 tons and 200,000 tons,respectively.
7/   Including export demand of 100,000 tons and 400,000 tons,respectively.
8/   Includes only seven main types of vegetables.
9/ Value of projecis exports would be in the order of Mex$ 400 million (US$
(US$32 million) as compared with 1972 national vegetable exports of
about Mex$ 2 billion (US$160 million).
January 31, 1975



Annex 16
Page 1
MEXICO
BAJO RIO BRAVO and BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The rate of return from the project to the economy has been calcu-
lated on the following assumptions:
(a) Output Prices. Projections of international prices have been used
for those commodities for which such price projections are made by
IBRD's Commodity and Export-Projections Division. 1/ After calcd-
lating the equivalent FOB or CIF prices, allowances were made for
local port expenses, transportation costs and processing costs in
order to arrive at the economic farmgate price. For commodities
for which IBRD has not made projections, farmgate prices prevailing
in December 1974 have been considered the best available estimates.2/
The following table shows the farmgate prices used in the calculation
of both the economic rate of return and farm budgets:
Commodity                                     Price Assumption For
Farm Budget    Economic Rate of Return
-------------Mex$/ton-------
Cotton                                  5,200                  4,800
Maize                                   1,500                    900
Sorghum                                 1,200                  1,200
Groundnuts                              5,000                  5,250
Sesame                                  6,000                  4,450
Live cattle                            12,000                 14,300
Milk ('000 liters)                      3,000                  1,900
Beans                                             6,000
Stringbeans                                       3,600
Squash                                            1,500
Okra                                              2,200
Broccoli                                          3,500
Onions                                             1,500
Various vegetables                                2,500
Flaxseed                                          3,000
1/   The projections made for 1980 (in 1974 constant terms) have been assumed
to apply to the entire project life.
2/   In some cases, such as vegetables, prices of output as delivered by the
farmer rather than farmgate prices have been used. In these cases, the
additional costs have been included under production costs.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
(b) Labor Costs In view of the considerable underemployment existing
in Mexico's rural sector, official wage rates are considered to be-
higher than the opportunity cost of labor. For this reason a shadow
price of 70X of the official wage rate for farm labor (which was
Mex$ 52 per day by the end of 1974, among the highest rates in the
country) was used in the economic rate of return calculation. 1/
(c) Development Schedule. Rehabilitation of the irrigated area would
follow the schedule presented in Annex 5. Agricultural benefits
would start to accrue with a one-year time lag following this sched-
ule, and it would take, on average, 5 years to reach full development
in each area. This would result in the following build-up of
total incremental benefits.
Project year     % of total incremental benefits
1
2
3
4                           0.2
5                           1.9
6                           9.4
7                          24.1
8                          42.8
9                          62.6
10                          80.9
11                          93.4
12                          98.7
13                         100.0
(d) ProJect Costs. The investments and their timing are shown in Annex
9. For the rate of return calculation, the items for land acquisi-
tion and price contingencies have been excluded.
(e) Project Life. For economic analysis purposes, the project life has
been taken as 40 years, although with proper maintenance, the use-
ful life of the project is indefinite.
2.        Calculated on the basis of the assumptions detailed above, the
economic rate of return is estimated to be 19%. The cost and benefit streams
involved in this calculation are shown in Table 1.
3.        To test the sensitivity of this result to deviations from the
assumptions, the following tests were made:



ANNEX 16
Page 3
Alternative Assumption                          Economic Rate of Return
(a)  Irrigation investment costs increased                 18%
by an additional 10% 1/
(b)  Two-year time lag in build-up of ben-                 17%
efits instead of one year
(c)  Benefits lowered by 20%                               16%
(d)  Farm labor costs valued at official                   18%
minimum wage, instead of being
shadow-priced at 70%.
(e)  Combination of (a), (b) and (c)                       14%
These results show that, within a reasonable range of circumstances, there
is no risk of not achieving an acceptable rate of return on the project.
January 1975
1/   Irrigation investment used in economic analysis already includes 10%
for physical contingencies.



M E X I C O
BAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
(Mex$ million)
---- - -- - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- - -- - -       -  ----------Project  Years------ --     -    -     -    -     -    -     -     -     -    -     -    -     -    -
1      2       3      4       5      6       7      8         9        10        11       12        13        14        15        16       17        18        19      20-40
1/
Net Value of Production                423.3  423.3  423.3  425.7  445.4  531.6  701.0  917.2  1,195.4  1,356.2  1,500.6  1,569.0  1,576.5  1,576.5  1,576.5  1,576.5  1,576.5  1,576.5  1,576.5  1,576.5
(with project)
Net Value of Production7               421.3  423.3  423.3  423.3  423.3  423.3  423.3  423.3    423.3    423.3    423.3    423.3    423.3    423.3    423.3    423.3    423.3    423.3    423.3    423.3
(without project)                                                    _                                _                                                                    _                ___
Project Benefits                          -      -       -      2.4   22.1  108.3  277.7  493.9    772.1    932.9  1,077.3  1,138.7  1,153.2  1,153.2  1,153.2  1,153.2  1,153.2  1,153.2  1,153.2  1,153.2
2/
Irrigation Investment                  152.6  577.2  459.6  371.4  362.7  359.9  252.9    -             -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -
Extension Program - Investment-3/        8.7    7.8    3.3    -         -      6.3    5.9    3.33                                                        - -                 - ' 3.3
- Current Cost-      16.1   32.2   48.2   48.2   48.2   48.2   48.2   48.2          48.2     48.2      48.2      48.2      24.1      12.0       6.0       3.0      -         -         -
Livestock Investment-/                    -      -       -      0.6    5.4   24.1   47.2   60.4        63.7      58.8      40.3     17.2       4.0       -         0.3       1.5       2.9       3.7      4.2      1O.5
Project Costs                          177.4  617.2  511.1  420.2  416.3  438.5  354.2  111.9    111.9    107.0           94.8      71.3      31.4      12.0       6.3       4.5       2.9       3.7       4.2     10.5
1/ Gross value of production minus current production costs (excluding taxes and insurance premiums).
Source: Figures of Annex 13, Tables 3 and 4, adjusted for international price projections and shadow price of labor.
2/  Source: Annex  9: adjusted for cost of land acquisition and price contingencies.
3/  Source: Annex 12:  Extension program is assumed to phase out after year 12, when full agricultural development is reached; equipment, vehicles and furniture renewable after five years.
4/  IncludesHex$19.1 million (renewable every 10 years) and Mex$40.5 million (once and for all)for beef production.
Mex$.128.9 million(renewable every 15 years) andMex$ 133.1 million (once and for all) for milk production.
5/ Average for years 20 to 40.
IE 



MEXICO
ORGANIZATION OF SRH
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC
SECRETARY OF THE WATER RESOURCES
THE COMMISSION OF PAPALOAPAN
THE COMM1SSION OF THE SALSAS RIIVER                 _                   |AIR TRANSPORTATION                    TECHNICAL SECRETAR
TEE COMMISSION OF THE SALRAS RIVER
| RE COMMISSION OF OAF FUERTE RIVER                  __ INTERNAL COMMISH1ON OF THE1
THE COMMISSION OF GRIJALVA
WATER COMMISSION OF THE BASIN OF MEXICO VALLEY                          DIRECTOR OF THE PRESS                  COMMISSION OF PUBLIC
I           n             I         R~~~~~~~~~ELATIONSO
THE COMMISSION OF THE STUDIES OF THE PANUCO RIVER
THE COMMISSION OF THE UTILIZATION OF SALINE WATER
S- ENERAL COMPTROLLER 
OSURS-ECRETARY OF  |                                             | SUBSECRETARY OF  |                                                     OUR-SUECRETARY OF  I                                               I         1            1
|RIAT                 TECICA                                           PRIVATE             TECHNICA                                          PRIVATE             TECHNICA                                          PRIVATE             TECHNCL;
SECRETARY            ASSISTANT                                       SECRETARY  _ _        ASSISTANT                                     |SECRETARVY             ASSISTANT                                       SECRETARY       _     ASSISTANT
TEsO~,.I  TE*M      TEO,,IY.Sl~ f.S.ER,                                                                             OS ITe~~,
t;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HmO                                                       fe~                   Stf,    HIOfaHElt.O m   Hfk
RHaSEl ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~      ~     |@ 5U-ITI S|G HIr Hoff SteFe IGRed  I,ASI.Aon8 9bC§,e  r  EI U-OF






Administrative
Services
No. 25 Bajo Rio
Bravo
No. 50 Acu?ia Fal-
con
OperationofWS
& sewageSstm
O                         m
r =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
0
,--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I                         D
m                         0
Residence W.S. & S.                                                                -            Z
z>
Rio BravoN 
00
01
Residence W.S. & S.                                                                .Z
Matamoros                                                                                       N
Geol,droiogy and
Arid Zones                        O
l            Jl       1i1   *   1i    C)n
0
Water Use and
Pollution Control                -n
Hydraulic Works
Development 
E ~~~Constuio
co
I          l        
W       ~~~Acuaculture
(51
(Si






IBRD 11389
f7T                                                                                            9'.                                                      J~~~~~~~~~~~0  ANUARYT 1973
MEX I CO
IBAJO RIO BRAVO AND BAJO RIO SAN JUAN.                                                              u
REHABILITATION PROJECT
n t  <_ f^                                                             Moiri "rgation canals
Main drunnage canals r
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~irrigOteo  areas
Manroopdo
-J gt °< ai X ~         ~         ~          .-  Risivrs                                                               2 ;u  :      D
-'---i---   RIoi troods                                                                    <'
t                        Z7t ',$erntiowal boatisdary                                                                                                        ''t  ½i
>     \o  20 20  4    05 '0s'    '"
N  FolovKLO1TI
Nueva Ciudod Guerrer   /Dam
i                    ->    ~     ~~ ~ ~           ~~Ci u d  Rk[ Grande                                W/                             2\0                      v     &
4L4~~~~~~i
Ciudad~~~~~~
N                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rilo Bravo                        Pols
I               --                    M        E       X        I      C        O       \       \ n               I-VolEnDISTR                                           6-
7                                                                        -         >                                       8rawvsvilla~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
~~~0oov101~~~~~~~~~~el         0    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~  ~                        Matamoo0Wsign
"*0~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
M  F  X  I       C       0                          N     .1~~~~~~~~Ng  \Herrnoso j    a\K
*         U\,, S. A.                                                                                                BAJO        R RIO    BR;           R_
LAo of atp
I/f f                                                                   0                                                            V
MEXICO                           25.                                                                                                                                     5
o-of
L.   -                            -4,cl~oa,o    0".  



