Report No. PID7193
Project Name                     Honduras-Hurricane Emergency Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Multi-sectoral
Project ID                       HNPE64083
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance, assisted by Central
Bank of Honduras
Date this PID Prepared           December 11, 1998
Projected Board Date             December 22, 1998
Project Background
On October 24, Tropical Storm Mitch was upgraded to a hurricane that
quickly developed into one of the strongest and most damaging storms ever to
hit Central America. At its height on October 26 and 27, Hurricane Mitch
sustained winds of 180 mph and dumped heavy rains over Central America.
Although the winds diminished as the hurricane traveled inland over Honduras
on October 30, the storm continued to produce torrential rains, causing
catastrophic floods and landslides. Within Central America, Honduras bore the
brunt of Hurricane Mitch. The worst damage was in the Atlantic Coast, Sula
Valley, the Central Region and the South, but no part of Honduras escaped some
impact.
Preliminary estimates indicate over 6,500 deaths and 15,000 disappeared
persons. About 1.9 million people (almost one in three Hondurans) were
affected, of which over 260,000 had to be placed in temporary shelters,
including about 85,000 children under the age of five. The Hurricane damaged
or destroyed an estimated 60 percent of main and secondary paved roads (1,600
km), 20 percent of unpaved secondary and tertiary roads (2,390 km) and 100
bridges (8 in Tegucigalpa). It damaged water systems in all major urban
centers and caused partial damage to 1,500 rural systems. An estimated 60,000
homes were destroyed and about 160,000 damaged by the floods and mud slides.
About 17 percent of schools were damaged, and those left standing have been
used as shelters. Of the country's 27 hospitals, 14 were left without water
and 16 report infrastructure damage. Damage to rural health posts and clinics
is also believed to be extensive. Unlike previous natural disasters,
Hurricane Mitch wreaked havoc in both of Honduras' largest cities, the capital
Tegucicalpa, and San Pedro Sula. About 40 percent of the capital was damaged,
half of its one million inhabitants were affected, and the city was cut off
from the rest of the country for almost a week. Much of the Government's own
institutional infrastructure was affected, including destruction of the
Ministry of Education and extensive damage to the Ministry of Finance. San
Pedro Sula, the country's industrial and agricultural heartland, suffered
extensive damage to its international airport, road and bridge infrastructure,
and its water and sewerage systems.
IDA staff on the ground in Honduras moved quickly to help the Government
coordinate with other donors and conduct a preliminary damage assessment. IDA
also reallocated funds from existing operations, including disbursement of the
second tranche of the Public Sector Modernization Adjustment Credit and its
associated IDA reflows (totaling $38 million), which provided much-needed
balance of payments support, and the restructuring/reallocation of about $65



million from the following ongoing investment projects: a recently-approved
credit for the Social-Investment Fund Project, and the Basic Education, Rural
Land Management and the Environmental Development Projects.
Hurricane Mitch will have a substantial long-term impact on the economy
of Honduras. The most serious damages were felt by the agriculture and
infrastructure sectors. According to preliminary estimates, Hurricane Mitch
destroyed 75 percent of maize and beans production, 10 percent of rice, and 8
percent of sorghum. The agro-export sector also suffered extensive damage,
with destruction of 80 percent of bananas, 50 percent of shrimp and extensive
damage to pineapples, melons, African palm, and sugar cane. The coffee sector
was less affected, in the sense that coffee trees suffered little permanent
damage, but access problems make it difficult to harvest, transport and dry
much of this year's production. Tourism infrastructure in the Caribbean Coast
and the maquila sector also suffered damage.
The estimated lending amount is SDR 144.3 ($200.0 million equivalent).
Project Objectives
At the time the hurricane struck, IDA had various missions in the field.
Together with staff of our Liaison Office in Tegucigalpa, those missions
formed the core of IDA's emergency response team, supplemented by disaster
specialists and other task managers who traveled to the country as soon as
physical conditions permitted. Immediate needs included helping the
Government to assess damage, prioritize interventions, and coordinate with
other external donors. In the process, IDA has prepared its own three-part
strategy to assist Honduras respond to this natural disaster.
Emergency Financing, Macroeconomic Assistance and Debt Relief. The Government
has an urgent need for emergency financing of much-needed imports, while
sustaining macroeconomic stability. The proposed fast-track Hurricane
Emergency Project would meet this immediate need. It complements actions by
IDA in the two weeks following the hurricane to release the second tranche of
the Public Sector Modernization Adjustment Credit and associated IDA Reflows,
which provided balance of payments support at a critical juncture. At the
request of several governments, IDA has established a Central America
Emergency Trust Fund (CAETF) to which contributions can be made to support
Honduras, and other hurricane-affected countries cover multilateral debt
service payments. As soon as conditions permit, IDA and the IMF will carry
out a comprehensive debt sustainability analysis which would determine
Honduras' eligibility for the HIPC initiative.
Short- to Medium-Term Rehabilitation. IDA staff are working with counterpart
Government agencies and other development partners to reprogram IDA operations
and/or process supplemental financing to provide for urgent rehabilitation of
damaged social and economic infrastructure. Given the extent of the damage
and the need for quick support, IDA staff believe that reprogramming of the
existing portfolio-as opposed to designing a new, multi-sector hurricane
rehabilitation project-is the fastest and most flexible way to meet Honduras'
short and medium-term rehabilitation needs, given that speed is of the
essence. In addition to reprogramming several existing credit amounts to
finance about $100 million of rehabilitation-related expenditures,
supplemental funding will be proposed for several ongoing projects. These
figures may change as work with Government counterparts and other donors
- 2-



continues and as medium-term rehabilitation needs are better defined.
Longer-Term Reconstruction. As a result of the economic and social
devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch, as soon as conditions permit, IDA's
Country Assistance Strategy will need to be reformulated to support the
longer-term reconstruction of Honduras. While the priorities which we are
supporting (including human capital, targeted poverty interventions and
community participation, rural development, environment, and institutional
strengthening) are likely to remain valid, it is likely that IDA will need to
direct a much larger volume of resources toward infrastructure rehabilitation,
especially transport and water (depending on the support from other donors).
Strengthening the country's institutional capacity for disaster preparedness
and management will assume even greater importance, and the emphasis on
decentralization and local partnerships, which is already a strong feature of
our portfolio, will become more important than ever in the recovery process.
Finally, the role of other parts of the Bank Group in supporting private
sector development is likely to grow.
The proposed Hurricane Emergency Project is part of the first phase of
IDA's strategy to assist in the reconstruction of Honduras. It would assist
the Government in maintaining macroeconomic stability while helping to finance
import costs associated with rebuilding infrastructure, production levels, and
emergency imports. IDA support is being closely coordinated with other
multilateral and bilateral agencies. Besides the assistance under this
proposed emergency recovery operation, IDA, in coordination with other
multilateral agencies and bilateral donors, is also assisting with
rehabilitation through the reallocation of resources from IDA-financed
projects in the portfolio (as described above).
Project Description
The Hurricane Emergency Project will provide immediate, quick-disbursing
support to finance a positive list of imports needed for the rehabilitation
effort while supporting macroeconomic objectives. The project will, inter
alia, provide assistance for imports of: (i) construction materials, vehicles
and fuel that are needed for rehabilitation of physical infrastructure; (ii)
seeds, fertilizers (excluding pesticides), equipment, materials, machinery and
fuel needed to reestablish agricultural production; (iii) medical supplies and
equipment needed for the hospitals, health centers, health posts and outreach
programs; (iv) school supplies and equipment for schools and educational
facilities that were partially/totally destroyed; and (v) machinery, spare
parts and equipment for commercial and industrial companies.
Project Implementation
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance in close
collaboration with the Central Bank of Honduras since it will largely support
import financing requirements. The credit will finance 100 percent of the
delivered cost of general imports, excluding import duties and taxes, subject
to a positive list to be agreed with the Government. Adequate quarterly
reporting and audit trails will be provided by the Ministry of Finance and the
Central Bank of Honduras.
Project Timing
-3-



The project will be implemented over a one year period and is expected to
be completed by December 31, 1999.
Environmental Category
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in
Category C and does not require an environmental assessment.
Benefits
The import financing under the proposed credit will provide timely
balance of payments support to the Government in view of the additional import
demands generated by the effects of Hurricane Mitch. The counterpart funds
generated by the sale of foreign exchange will provide the Government with an
important source of non-inflationary finance at a time when there will be need
for additional public spending and pressure on revenues due to lower economic
growth. The balance of payments support to be provided under this credit will
be critical in maintaining macroeconomic stability while rehabilitating and
restoring productive capacity, and ensuring the adequate supply of essential
equipment, materials and commodities for the social and economic sectors. It
will complement the support for short- and medium-term rehabilitation that
will be provided through the restructuring/reprogramming of ongoing operations
in the portfolio, and assistance provided by other multilateral and bilateral
agencies.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 18, 1998.
- 4 -



