Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21455
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(31590; 21461)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 144.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A HURRICANE EMERGENCY PROJECT
December 5, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Lempiras (L)
Lempiras (L) I = US$ 0.0684
US$ I = Lempiras (L) 14.62
FISCAL YEAR
January I to  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAETF               Central America Emergency Trust Fund
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CG                  Consultative Group
ESAF                Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
HEP                Hurricane Emergency Project
HIPC               Hightly-Indebted Poor Country Initiative
IDA                 International Development Association
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
OED                 Operations Evaluation Department
PRGF                Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP                Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PFP                Policy Framework Paper
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:    Emesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Suzana Augusto



FOR OFFICL&L USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    6
6. Sustainability                                                                        7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         8
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                        9
9. Partner Comments                                                                     10
10. Additional Information                                                              15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P064083                                        Project Name: HURRICANE EMERGENCY
Team Leader: Suzana Campos Augusto                         TL Unit: LCC2C
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 7, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: HURRICANE EMERGENCY                             L/C/TF Number: 31590; 21461
CountryIDepartment: HONDURAS                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: MY - Other Non-sector Specific
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/24/98                                 Effective. 04/26/99            04/27/99
Appraisal:  11/25/98                                   MTR:
.4pproval:  12/22/98                                Closing: 06/30/2000           12/20/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS/MINISTRY OF FINANCE/CENTRAL BANK
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                           Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo                      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:       Ernesto May                                Guillermo Perry
Team Leader at ICR:   Suzana Augusto                             Suzana Augusto
ICR Primary Author:   Suzana Augusto
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Hurricane Mitch, which hit Honduras over the period October 25-31, 1998, is considered the worst natu:ual
disaster to have affected the country in recent times. The hurricane remained centered over Honduran
territory for five days during which strong winds and relentless rain led to extensive damage to crops, as
well as flooding and landslides on an unprecedented scale. As a result of the hurricane, about 5,600 people
died and 8,000 were declared missing and presumed dead. Overall, about 2.5 million people (40 percenl of
the population) were displaced temporarily or made homeless, and 441,150 (including about 85,000
children under the age of five) had to be placed in temporary shelters. Approximately 60 percent of the
main and secondary paved roads, 20 percent of unpaved secondary and tertiary roads, and more than 100)
bridges were damaged or destroyed as were water systems in all major areas. More than 17 percent of tl e
country's 9,548 primary schools were damaged. The Govermment estimates that the hurricane affected
the housing conditions of about 660,000 people, that more than 30,000 new dwellings needed to be
constructed, and 50,000 needed rehabilitation. Estimates prepared by UNDP and ECLAC suggested totl
direct and indirect damages of US$5 billion, equivalent to Honduras' total GNP in 1998.
Given the devastation caused by the hurricane, there was serious concem that the Government would ha e
great difficulty in maintaining macroeconomic stability as it struggled to meet emergency import needs a id
finance priority expenditures. Without quick support, the Government could face serious loss of
confidence in the domestic currency, balance of payments and fiscal crises, leading to runaway inflation
and, possibly, social unrest. Macroeconomic instability and increased uncertainty would present a seriouis
obstacle to the reconstruction process in Honduras. The fast-track Hurricane Emergency Project (HEP)
therefore, aimed to assist the Government maintain macroeconomic stability and ensure a stable economic
environment to begin the long-term reconstruction process. Its main objective was to provide quick
financing for imports asociated with rebuilding social and economic infrastructure, and re-establishing
production levels in Honduras' devastated economic base. The HEP was a key component of the first p. rt
of IDA's three-part strategy to assist Honduras respond to the effects of the natural disaster. This strate,;y
included:
*  Emergency Financing, Macroeconomic Assistance and Debt Relief. The Governnent had an urge-nt
requirement for emergency financing of much-needed imports, while sustaining macrozconomic
stability. Financing provided under the Hurricane Emergency Project (HEP) met this need. It
complemented actions by IDA in the period immediately following the hurricane to release the secor 1
tranche of the Public Sector Modernization Adjustment Credit and associated Fifth Dimension
resources, which also provided balance of payments support at a critical juncture. In addition, IDA
staff cooperated with the IMF on a preliminary reassessment of Honduras' macroeconomic situatior,
and have since carried out a comprehensive debt sustainability analysis under which Honduras has
been declared eligible for the HIPC initiative under the Enhanced Framework. Finally, at the request of
several governments, IDA established and managed a Central America Emergency Trust Fund
(CAETF) to which bilateral contributions were made to support Honduras and other hurricane-affected
countries cover multilateral debt service payments. As of February 29, 2000, the CAETF had
received US$105.8 million equivalent in contributions for Honduras, and had paid out US$90.5 million
equivalent to cover Honduras' debt service obligations to its multilateral creditors.
*   Short- to Medium-Term Rehabilitation. Given the extent of the damage in Honduras, and the need
for quick investment support, reprogramming of IDA's portfolio represented the fastest and most
flexible way to meet Honduras' short-term rehabilitation needs in the immediate aftermath of Hurric me
- 2 -



Mitch. IDA worked closely with Government counterparts and other development partners to
reprogram operations in the portfolio and/or process supplemental financing (when available balances
were insufficient to meet urgent needs) to provide for urgent rehabiliation of damaged social and
economic infrastructure. A total of five operations were restructured within existing credit amounts to
finance about US$80 million equivalent of rehabilitation-related expenditures. In addition, a total of
US$30.4 million equivalent in supplemental funding was approved for ongoing health and transport
projects.
* Longer-Term Reconstruction. A new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was under preparation at
the time that Hurricane Mitch struck Honduras; it had been tentatively scheduled for Board
presentation in February 1999. In the event, the CAS was reformulated to support the longer-term
reconstruction of Honduras, and was presented to the Board in December 1999. While the original
development objectives of poverty reduction, sustainable and equitable private sector-led growth,
environmental protection, strengthening of the financial system and modernization of the state remained
valid, the share of the country program devoted to quick disbursing balance of payments support
increased (starting with the HEP), and strengthening of Honduras' insitutional capacity for disaster
preparedness and management, as well as emphasis on decentralization and local partnerships, became
ever more important in our assistance strategy.
Because this project responded to an emergency situation, it had not been contemplated in the CAS under
preparation at the time. However, the project was extremely responsive to the emerging issues, challenges
and development priorities that Honduras faced in responding to the effects of the devastating hurricane.
As mentioned above, the project was but one component of a redefined assistance strategy that addressed
rehabilitation and reconstruction needs. It was, however, an essential component of that strategy, with a
clear and concise objective--assisting the Government to maintain macroeconomic stability in an
environment made difficult by the greatly increased import demands and reduced productive capacity. The
simplicity of project design, which followed recent best practice of emergency assistance operations and
relied exclusively on existing Government institutions and procedures for consolidating import and foreign
exchange payment information, was also responsive to the Government's need for timely balance of
payments support and its limited institutional capacity for dealing with the effects of a natural disaster of
the magnitude of Hurricane Mitch.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The Hurricane Emergency Project provided immediate, quick-disbursing support to finance a positive list
of imports needed for implementing Honduras' Hurricane Mitch rehabilitation program while supporting
macroeconomic objectives. The project provided assistance for imports needed for its recovery program, as
follows: (i) construction materials and equipment, water, land and air transport vehicles, petroleum, and
fuel products that were needed for rehabilitation of physical infrastructure; (ii) seeds, fertlizers, agricultural
equipment, materials, machinery and fuel needed to reestablish agricultural production; (iii) medical
supplies and equipment needed to replenish stocks of hospitals, health centers, health posts and outreach
programs; (iv) school supplies and equipment for educational facilities that were damaged or destroyed;
and (v) machinery, spare parts and equipment for commercial and industrial companies. The project did
not finance used or luxury goods, or military equipment.
As mentioned in Section 3.1 above, the design of the project's single component was responsive to the
Borrower's needs for balance of payments support at a critical juncture. The positive list adopted for IDA
-3 -



credit disbursements was appropriate to Honduras' reconstruction import requirements, and the project's
implementation arrangements (with responsibility shared between the Ministry of Finance and the Centr..
Bank of Honduras, as reflected in an Implementation Agreement), including procurement and disbursem, nt
procedures, were streamlined to facilitate timely implementation in a difficult environment. Project desig n
also proved to be a flexible vehicle for mobilizing bilateral balance of payments support. The Governmm. nt
of Italy provided a 25 billion Lira soft loan to finance imports from Italian suppliers, modelled on the be ,is
of the HEP's implementation arrangements.
IDA's overall emergency assistance program for Honduras incorporated the following lessons, which
guided the preparation of this project and other assistance provided in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch
(i) successful implementation of recovery projects requires very early Bank involvement in defining a
recovery stratetgy; (ii) rapid preparation is essential for emergency projects to have the needed impact, and
normal Bank guidelines and procedures could cause delays in project execution, making it necessary to
desing special implementation and execution arrangements; (iii) flexibility in the design of recovery projects
is necessary to permit changes as project implementation yields more information; (iv) emergency support
should pave the way for dealing with longer-term concems about disaster preparedness and managemen';
and (v) emergency operations must be simple, rapidly executable, sharply focused, and not burdened with
conditionality.
Through staff of several missions in the country at the time of the hurricane and those of its Liaison Off: ce,
IDA began formulating its emergency assistance strategy practically as Hurricane Mitch struck. IDA
responded quickly to the Government's emergency needs: by the end of December 1998, IDA had
restructed five ongoing operations, advanced significantly in the preparation of two supplemental credits
(approved in January 1999), and approved the Hurricane Emergency Project (approved in less than six
weeks). The HEP was simple, focussed, and contained only financial management conditionality to enstire
the appropriate use of project funding. As suggested by the lessons of experience, the recently approve
Country Assistance Strategy proposes overall support for Honduras' reconstruction efforts, including a
stand-alone project for disaster mitigation and preparedness, which is now in final stages of preparation.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The project's quality at entry was satisfactory. It was an integral component of IDA's
redefined emergency assistance strategy, which itself was extremely responsive to Honduras' emergency
and redefined longer-term development priorities resulting from the hurricane. While adverse
environmental and social consequences were not anticipated, the project did address IDA's safeguard
policies by requiring that any imports of pesticides or herbicides financed with credit proceeds be subjec t to
the requirements of O.P. 4.36, Pest Management. As described above, project design was simple and
focussed, and hence, implemented without creating an additional burden on a Borrower whose insitutior al
capacity was already overstreched in responding to a crisis situation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The project achieved its single development objective: maintaining macroeconomic stabi,lity.
Honduras' economy had been doing quite well before the hurricane struck, with GDP growth for 1998 and
1999 projected at 5-6 percent (following 1997 growth of 4.9 percent).
At the time the HEP was prepared, estimates of the damage to the economy were still being refined, bul the
-4 -



Government estimated that real GDP growth could drop to 3 percent in 1998 (modest because the hurricane
struck late in the calendar year), but would then turn negative by at least 2-3 percent in 1999. Inflation
was expected to increase to 16 percent by December 1998 (13 percent through October) and about 18
percent by end-1999, due to the relaxation of emergency price controls and shortages of food and other
goods.
Hurricane Mitch was expected to have a major fiscal impact. The relief and rehabilitation effort, the initial
reconstruction phase, and lower economic growth were expected to increase public expenditures and
depress fiscal revenues. The overall deficit of the Central Government was expected to widen to up to 4
percent of GDP in 1998 and 8 percent or more in 1999, compared with 2.4 percent contemplated for 1999
prior to Mitch. The higher deficits in 1998 and 1999 were expected to be financed by external grants and
credits, of which the HEP was an integral component. The Government also announced that it would seek
savings in public expenditures, in part by reducing lower-priority expenditures in the 1999 budget.
Hurricane Mitch was also expected to severely impact Honduras' balance of payments. The current
account deficit was expected to widen to about 8 percent of GDP in 1998 and in 1999 (compared to under
3 percent estimated prior to Mitch), owing mainly to the projected fall in exports and higher imports related
to rehabilitation and reconstruction. Estimates, shortly after the hurricane, suggested a balance of
payments financing gap of about $500 million (about 10 percent of GDP) in 1999, after taking into account
an estimated $290 million in insurance payments (from re-insurance by Honduran insurance companies).
The financing gap was expected to be closed through emergency balance of payments support from IDA
(including that provided under this project) and the IMF, flow rescheduling of obligations coming due to
Paris Club creditors, debt forgiveness by bilateral creditors, reprogramming of existing loans, and
disbursements of new credits and grants.
The IMF had planned to take a three-year ESAF to its Board in December 1998. In the event, the ESAF
was delayed, and the IMF Board approved the three-year ESAF arrangement aimed at a quick and
sustained economic recovery on March 26, 1999. The main targets of the program were: (i) a recovery in
growth to about 5-6 percent a year in 2000-01 following expected negative growth of 2-3 percent in 1999;
(ii) a reduction in the 12-month inflation rate to 13-14 percent by end-1999 and to single digits by
end-2001; and (iii) an international reserve position of 3.5-4 monthsof imports.
The 1999 budget aimed to shift priorities toward emergency relief and the reconstruction of infrastructure,
containing the growth in non-emergency spending and strengthening revenues through improved tax
administration and the phased adjustment of utility tariffs. Although the fiscal deficit is estimated to have
widened markedly--from 1.4 percent of GDP in 1998 to 4.1 percent in 1999--it was financed almost
entirely through concessional loans and debt relief. The financing gap for the 1999-2001 period was
estimated at $854 million at the time the ESAF arrangement was approved.
As depicted in the Table below, Honduras' macroeconomic performance has been broadly satisfactory
during 1999, and the final outcome for 1999 regarding economic activity, inflation, international reserves,
and the fiscal and current account deficits was better than programmed.
- 5 -



Table 1: Key Economic Indicators, 1998-99
1998                  1999                  1999
Projected in ESAF        Preliminary
GDP Growth (%)                  3.0                  -3.0                   -2.2
Inflation (end-year, %)        15.6                   12.0                  10.9
Central Govt. Balance          -1.4                  -7.6                   -4.1
(% GDP)
Total Revenues                 18.6                   18.8                  19.4
Total Expenditures             17.5                  24.2                   21.7
Current Account Balance        -0.8                  -9.4                   -5.7
(% GDP)
Gross Reserves                  3.0                   3.6                   4.2
(months of imports)
External Debt (% GDP)          73.8                  81.8                   80.5
4.2 Outputs by components:
See above.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
N/A
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main external factor influencing the accomplishment of project objectives--that is macroeconomic
stability in an extremely adverse environment after a natural disaster of unpredecented proportions for th,
country--was the large amount of external assistance pledged by Honduras' bilateral and multilateral
creditors. The HEP was but one component--albeit an important and extremely timely one--in a much
larger package of external assistance pledged to Honduras in the aftermath of Mitch. Initial donor supp: rt
was pledged at an initial Consultative Group Meeting for Central America, organized by the IDB in
Washington in December 1998. At a follow-up May Stockholm CG Meeting, the donor community
committed over US$2.7 billion to Honduras' reconstruction. While much of the donor assistance has sti]
to be translated into projects on the ground, important components such as an initial Paris Club debt
service deferral of US$153 million equivalent in 1999, and US$105.8 million in bilateral contributions t(i
the CAETF on Honduras' behalf, together with disbursements from the IMF and IDA (especially under this
project), had an important role in containing balance of payment difficulties.
-6-



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government's main contribution was the strong macroeconomic management, reflected in the adoption
of prudent macroeconomic policies in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch. The Government has
satisfactorily negotiated the second review of the ongoing ESAF (now PRGF) with the IMF, and the IMF
reported that performance during the first year of the program was widely positive. As mentioned above,
the final outcome for 1999 regarding economic activity, inflation, international resreves, and the fiscal and
current account deficits was better than programmed. Notwithstanding the increase in social and
reconstruction expenditures, the combined public sector deficit was contained at 0.7 percent of GDP (the
deficit was 4.1 percent of GDP for the Central Government), reflecting mainly strong tax collection
resulting from increased efficiency in the collection system. Higher than expected public and private
transfers, together with delays in reconstruction related imports contributed to curtailing the external
current account deficit at 5.7 percent of GDP
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Apart from the strong macroeconomic management described above, the main factors affecting project
implementation subject to implementing agency control were the good financial and project management.
The Implementation Agreement reflecting the sharing of implementation responsibilities between the
Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank was formalized expeditiously, the credit became effective in
almost record time (in a country where external financing must be approved twice by Congress before
effectiveness), disbursement applications were prepared in a timely manner, and audit and monitoring
reports were prepared and forwarded to IDA routinely (albeit with some delay). When an IDA financial
supervision mission identified issues relating to the eligibility of goods previously reimbursed with credit
proceeds, those issues were rectified in a timely fashion by the implementing agency, as agreed with the
mission. The credit was fully disbursed six months ahead of the closing date.
5.4 Costs and financing:
N/A
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likelv. The project aimed to assist the Government in maintaining macroeconomic stability in the
aftermath of Hurricane Mitch. As described above, the project was successful in accomplishing this
objective. Less than eighteen months after the disaster, Honduras is returning to the path of successful
stabilization and higher growth than had been interrupted by Mitch, and prospects are good for continued
recovery in 2000, provided the Government maintains good revenue performance (by sustaining efforts to
strengthen tax administration), contains current non-priority expenditures, maintains a prudent monetary
policy, and continues to pursue it structural adjustment agenda. Supported by the IMF, IDA and the IDB,
the Government has continued with a program of structural reforms, although there have been some
delays--namely in the privatization of the telecoms company (HONDUTEL) and reform of the social
security system (IHSS), which are now being addressed. In the meantime, in December 1999, Honduras
was declared eligible for the HIPC Initiative under the Enhanced Framework, and good progress has been
made by the Government in preparing its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
-7 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Hi2hlv Satisfactory. IDA's response to the emergency caused by Hurricane Mitch in general, and with the
identification-approval of this project, in particular, was of a high order. To assist the Government in
maintaining macroeconomic stability, IDA correctly identified the need for quick-disbursing balance of
payments support as a fundamental component of its emergency assistance strategy. IDA then acted ver-i
quickly to, first, identify the most appropriate project concept based on the Bank/IDA's best practice, and
then adapt that concept to Honduras' particular needs and requirements. It is worth noting that by
following best practice experience within the Bank Group at the time, and by coordinating preparation
responsibilities among both staff that visited the country and their counterparts at headquarters, IDA wa'.
able to bring the HEP (and a similar one for Nicaragua) to the Board of Directors in a record six weeks
from the date of the hurricane. The Bank's Executive Directors also acted very expeditiously to assist
Honduras, by agreeing to review the HEP loan package in only three working days, rather than the stand ard
13.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank supervision requirements were fully met. Because the macroeconomic supervision was
provided by staff responsible for other macroeconomic tasks in Honduras, supervision coefficients were
quite low. The only project-specific supervision mission was for the financial management aspects of th:;
project--to carry out a spot check of documentation supporting disbursements made and review financial
management control procedures. The Facilitation Office--which has subsequently become a Resident
Mission-played a key supporting role, including in providing assistance with compliance of effectivenes;
conditions and responding to inquiries on the disbursement process.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactorv. IDA made--and continues to make--a notable contribution to Honduras' post-Mitch
reconstruction and assistance efforts. This project is but one component of that contribution, but an
important and timely one that provided an important signal to the wider donor community of IDA's stror.n
support, and contributed to the Government's strong and productive efforts of maintaining macroeconomic
stability.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactorv. The Ministry of Finance, despite the enourmous burden it faced in coordinating massive
extemal assistnace in the aftermath of Mitch, contributed actively to project preparation. The Ministry if
Finance and the Central Bank cooperated in an exemplary fashion, defining and assigning among
themselves their respective project management responsibilities, which were reflected in the Implemental on
Agreement.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Hi2hlv Satisfactory. Government commitment to the project and its objectives was of high order. As
described above, macroeconomic management was strong. Project implementation was good: the credii
became effective in almost record time, disbursement requests were submitted in a timely fashion,
macroeconomic monitoring and audit reports were prepared and delivered--albeit with some delays, and -he
credit disbursed ahead of schedule. As mentioned above, when a financial management supervision
mission identified an issue, it was addressed promptly.
- 8-



7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. See para. 7.5 above.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Because the HEP was part of a larger package of emergency assistance to Honduras, it is relevant to
extract lessons not only related to the quick-disbursing balance of payment support provided under the
HEP, but also to IDA's emergency assistance to Honduras in general.
1) Very early Bank involvement is needed to develop an overall emergency assistance strategy that
proposes different modalities of support that can be channeled through appropriate vehicles. In this sense,
amendment of ongoing operations, and preparation of supplemental ones (where undisbursed balances are
insufficient to meet emergency needs in areas of ongoing assistance), are often the quickest ways to provide
investment support. This appears to be especially relevant for disasters of the magnitude of Hurricane
Mitch. Once the emergency assistance strategy is formulated, and the vehicles are identified, it is best to
process each of these seperately at their respective paces (instead of processing everything together in one
large assistance package).
2) As part of the process of defining an emergency assistance strategy, the Bank should quickly assess the
country's macroeconomic situation, risks and requirements, and identify any need for quick disbursing
support (among other vehicles for balance of payments assistance, such as the CAETF). This is best
provided through seperate quick-disbursing balance of payments support operations, such as the HEP. The
HEP framework can also be good vehicle for mobilizing bilateral assistance. Complementary assistance,
such as IDA provided in managing the CAETF, may also be critical to ensure that highly indebted
countries faced with massive emergency financing requirements can remain current in their debt service
obligations to multilateral creditors. Combined with other external assistance, and strong macroeconomic
management by the Government, critically needed balance of payments support provided in a timely
manner can have a major impact on macroeconomic stability.
3) Longer-term concems about disaster management preparedness and mitigation need to be addressed, but
it is not effective to combine this with emergency support objectives. They are best addressed either as
components or as seperate stand alone operations, as this provides the Government and the Bank team more
opportunity to devote the necessary attention to the technical issues (which may not be possible to do
properly in the rush to provide emergency macroeconomic support).
4) The Bank's timely response in preparing emergency operations is critical. In this sense, the Bank should
continue to respond flexibily (as it did in processing the HEP) to reducing periods for distribution of key
documents and for adherence to routine, internal procedures. The Bank should aim to reflect recent
experience with the processing of several emergency operations in revised guidelines that reflect these
streamlined procedures, especially since staff need guidance quickly when faced with emergencies.
5) The existence of experienced operational staff in a Bank field office is fundamental for assisting
Governments deal initially with early damage assessement, and definition of assistance priorities, financing
options, and implementation arrangements.
-9-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Background
In October of 1998, Honduras was hit badly by nature with the track of Hurricane Mitch, which left 5,6( 7
people dead, 441,150 people displaced and had an adverse impact on the economy of US$3,794 million,
with a replacement cost of US$5,084 million and left the social and productive infrastracture severely
damaged. To address this disaster, the Government designed and began execution of the Plan Maestro de
Reconstruccion y Trasformacion Nacional (Master Reconstruction and National Transformation Plan),
with the objective of, in the short term, reactivating of the country's productive sector and guiding
investment decisions that addressed reconstruction needs so that they emphasized the national
transformation process.
During this period, GDP reported a decline of 1.9% as a result of the damages in the agricultural sector,
especially bananas. Despite all of the problems resulting from the Hurricane, in 1999 the Government w; is
able to maintain stability in the exchange rate and achieve a moderate 11.65% rate of inflation, mitigating
the decline in production from the levels originally expected.
In response to the effects of Hurricane Mitch, the World Bank played a very active role in the coordinaticon
of emergency activities, taking the initiative in areas of importance for the country's reactivation, among
which the following was an example:
o   The approval of a Credit to support the balance of payments, "Hurricane Emergency Credit",
Credit No. IDA-3 159-HO, in the amount of US$196.3 million, with no conditionality and quick
disbursing, and which had been completely disbursed in 1999.
Following the same financing modality, the Government of Italy, through Medio Credito Centrale, will
provide cofinancing of the Hurricane Emergency Credit (Credit IDA-3 159-HO), in the amount of
approximately US$14.0 million.
Evaluation of the Project's Objectives, its Design, Execution, and Operational Experience
Project Objectives
In January 1999, the Government of Honduras signed with the International Development Association
Credit 3159-HO for the amount of SDR 144.0 mnillion. The principal objective was to assist the Borrow'. r
in maintaining macroeconomic stability through the financing of the cost of imports associated with the
reconstruction of social and economic infrastructure, and to reestablish production levels in view of the
damage caused by Hurricane Mitch.
The list established in the Credit Agreement defined the basic criteria that the eligible imports needed to
coincide strictly with the needs generated by the reconstruction process, thereby excluding luxury goods
and military equipment, as follows:
*   Construction Material
*   Water, Air and Land Transport Vehicles
*   Seeds
- 10 -



*   Fertilizers
* Agricultural materials and equipment
* School materials and equipment
*   Medical materials and equipment
*   Oil products and petroleum
*   Construction equipment and industrial machinery, spare parts and materials
This list is considered to have been responsive to the country's immediate import needs during the
emergency and reconstruction period since it responded to the demand for goods in the areas/sectors most
directly affected: infrastructure, health, education, production, etc.
Also, we believe that the project met its principal objective, which was to contribute to the country's
macroeconomic stability, since through this operation it was possible to obtain a flow of foreign exchange
necessary to finance urgent imports, which permitted a necessary balance in a critical situation for the
country in view of the limited productive capacity and responding to the damages in the various sectors.
This support laid the basis for reestablishing macroeconomic stability by containing key variables such as
inflation, the balance of payments deficit, etc.
Project Design
We consider that the design presented for approval took into account key elements to assist expeditiously in
overcoming the crisis period:
e Simplicity and flexibility in the operation's design
3 Framed within an overall Disaster Assistance Program
- Focused as a balance of payments support program with a longer term perspective
- Without conditionality
*   Quick disbursing
As a result of the problems created by the Hurricane, the country was faced with limited institutional
capacity to prepare a project or assistance proposal for the World Bank since a large part of the
Government's infrastructure was damaged directly by the Hurricane and we found ourselves overwhelmed
in attacking the problems caused by the emergency. The simplicity of the project design suggested by the
Bank permitted the defmiition of clear and precise targets, and of framing this operation under the scheme of
a program for balance of payments support. It was possible to direct the Government's assistance towards
maintaining macroeconomic stability in a critical and difficult environment.
For the World Bank's part, the criteria for [the project's] approval were focused on adopting accelerated
procedures, which ensured a quick intemal approval. As a result, this operation was approved in record
time, and consequently, disbursements were very timely.
During the period, the country was focused in quantifying the magnitude of the disaster among different
sectors, both social and productive, and in defining a strategy to move forward from the emergency. As a
result, by designing this project without complex conditionality, it was provided with the flexibility that is
extremely needed in emergency situations.
Also, the design provided for an Implementation Agreement between the Central Bank of Honduras and the
Secretaria de Finanzas that defined the responsibilities of the parties responsible for project management.
This ensured the monitoring of macroeconomic results, on the one hand, and on the other, the agile
- 11 -



carrying out of activities related to the disbursement process. At present, a Cofinancing Agreement "br this
project is about to be signed through Medio Credito Central for an amount of about US$14 million, that
follows the design of this program in its cofinancing.
Project Results
In order to maintain an environment of macroeconomic stability, the Government of Honduras in 1998 was
negotiating an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). The country was in agreement with the
adoption of a new Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) that was signed in March 1999.
Also as a result of the adverse effects of Hurricane Mitch and with the objective of laying the groundwork
for a process of not only reconstruction but also national transformation, backed by sustainable economic
growth in the short, medium and long terms, a Master Plan for National Reconstruction (Plan Maestio de
Reconstruccion Nacional--PMRTN) was designed and put in place to guide the process of investment in
reconstruction activities.
In order to provide a summary of the macroeconomic indicators for 1999, Annex 1 includes a report cn the
balance of payments and finances of the Central Government for 1999.
The disequilibrium in the balance of payments stood at US$378.6 million or approximately 7% of G DP, as
a result of the trade deficit which was estimated at US$909.2 million, due principally to the drop in exports
due to the destruction of farms and banana plantations resulting from Mitch's path. The low international
coffee prices also affected the trade balance, together with an increase of 12.8% in imports resulting from a
significant demand for imported goods and products in order to address the reconstruction process.
In view of the above, the projections originally estimated, taking into account the impact of the Hurricane,
were maintained within the overall range projected since a current account deficit of about 8% had been
estimated. This deficit was to be financed by net inflows of capital (US$456.0 million), of which about
98% was long term capital.
As to the overall fiscal performance of the Government in 1999, an overall net deficit of 4.7% resulted,
which was significantly lower than that specified in the Credit Agreement (8% of GDP). In this context,
one of the principal initiatives of the Government was the reformulation of the General Budget of Inc )me
and Expenses, under the coordination of the Ministry of Finance, in order to reassign expenditures to
address reconstruction activities.
The total income collected in 1999 reached Lempiras 14,736.5 million, exceeding by about 11% the level
of collections in 1998, since the sales tax collections resulted in an absolute increase of Lempiras 1, 217.09
in relation to 1998; also the adoption of tax reforms which increased the sales tax from 7 to 12% for goods
and services and to 15% for alcoholic beverages: beer, cigarettes, and tabacco products. Despite M itch,
collections exceeded those of the previous year by about 35%, also the tax on petroleum derivatives ihowed
an increase of 7.8% in relation to 1998. The income tax showed a decline of 8% as a result of the tax
holiday for contributors applicable to 1998, and the important losses in capital stock resulting from
Hurricane Mitch also affected this.
As to spending, total expenditures of the Central Government exceeded by about 22.3% the 1998 figure, of
which about 60% corresponded to current expenses (including debt interest payments), about 30.9% were
capital expenses and about 8.5% was channeled to amortization of internal and external public debt. These
expenditures were financed as follows: 71% with internal resources, 29 % with external resources
- 12 -



approved through loans including IDA-3 159-HO, and donations, including assistance provided for payment
of extemal debt service.
Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance
We consider that in general the project reflects good financial and project management; we believe
particularly that the formalization of the Implementation Agreement was a very pertinent and effective
measure, in that it established the concrete obligations and responsibilities of each of the parties involved,
as follows:
*   On the part of the Government of Honduras represented by the Secretaria de Finanzas, the
following participated: the Direccion General de Credito Publico (DGCP), the Direccion Ejecutiva
de Ingresos (DEI) and the Unidad de Evaluacion y Planificacion de la Gestion (UPEG).
*   On the part of the Central Bank of Honduras, the Departamento de Estudios Economicos.
This ensured the gradual dimensioning of the most important macroeconomic variables: the GDP growth
rate, inflation, current account deficit, fiscal deficit, among others, which resulted in prudent
macroeconomic management and also provides an example of the good financial performance under the
project which resulted in having disbursed the full amount of the credit six months before the expected
[closing] date of the project.
We recognize the issues with the auditing firm with respect to the problems that surfaced because of
ineligible imports; however we consider that these were addressed expeditiously by providing substitute,
adequate documentation, which only confirms that the list of eligible imports established in the Credit
Agreement was appropriate for emergency situations.
It is important to highlight the role played by the Direccion General de Credito Publico (DGCP), who took
an active role in coordination, which became a strategic element in the success in project implementation;
the DGCP was responsible for the following activities:
e   Coordinate the formalization of the Credit Agreement; following the steps needed in accordance
with intemal legislation and the requirements of IDA.
*   Provide follow-up to the compliance of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Credit
Agreement.
*   Monitor the process of substantiating eligible imports with the Direccion Ejecutiva de Ingresos
(DEI).
*   Prepare disbursement requests
*   Open and manage the program's special account
*   Coordinate the process for selection of the audit firm, including the preparation of terms of
reference for the audit, coordinating the process for calling proposals, selection, contract signing
and payment of fees.
*   Provide follow-up to the preparation of monitoring reports, with UPEG/SEFIN from a fiscal
perspective and with the Departamento de Estudios Economicos for the preparation of the balance
of payments report.
*   Assume responsibility for preparing the completion report, because of close involvement in all
stages of the process.
The lessons of experience suggest that the identification of the institution responsible for coordination of the
- 13 -



process, with special emphasis on the monitoring of main program activities, is a key factor. While the
Implementation Agreement recognizes the role of the DGCP, it did not specify that its responsibility would
be that important. It would be worth noting this for future projects. The fact that the credit disbursed in
full six months before the expected closing date is proof of the [project's] good financial administration.
Evaluation of IDA's Performance
As we indicated at the beginning of this document, the World Bank's role was very relevant in the
coordination of emergency activities. The proposal to design assistance as balance of payments support
was very correct. In addition, IDA's structuring of the operation, without complicated conditionality, and
yet fast disbursing, was widely accepted by the authorities of the Government of Honduras.
In addition, IDA performed with the seriousness that the situation required, reducing the internal approval
steps and times, and the work of the World Bank's Facilitating Office (now a Resident Mission) in
Honduras was very timely, and important. It is worth noting that the supervision mission was very timely,
and while this revealed discrepancies with respect to eligible imports, this also allowed for the necessary
adjustments very quickly and conveniently for the project.
Prospects for Project Sustainability
In order to ensure the positive results of the project, the Government of Honduras has prepared the strategy
and policy guidelines for the formulation of the Proposed Annual Operating Plan of the Income and
Expenditure Budget of the Central Government and Decentralized Agencies for the fiscal year 2001.
Contrary to the practice in previous fiscal years, this one includes elements of financial planning in the
medium term, which reflect targets for income and expenditure limits for the 2001-2003 period, which
establishes targets that are compatible with the country's economic development and associated with the
actions in the Master Plan for Reconstruction and National Transformation.
The fiscal policy guidelines for the period 2001-2003 are aimed at supporting an economic growth rate cf
around 6% in 2003, inflation rates at international levels, a balance of payments current account deficit and
net international reserves equivalent to between four and five months' imports and a net fiscal deficit of t ie
Central Government of around 5% of GDP.
To achieve these objectives, the Government will carry out the following:
*   Put in place a tax structure aimed at promoting national savings and investment.
* Restructure and reduce the external debt, to improve the cash flow position.
* Maintain a public investment program consistent with the level of external financing made available to
the country.
*   A broad program of private sector participation, in some activities as provider of services, by which
resources would be freed so that the Government can cover obligations in the social sectors resulting
from its protagonist role in the fight against poverty and in human capital formation.
*   The adoption of the Integrated Financial Management System (Sistema de Administracion Financiera
Integrado-SIAFI) and the Public Investment System (Sisstema de Inversion Publica-SISPU).
* Assign financial resources through FONAPROVI to finance production of basic grains, coffee,
bananas, and housing programs to low income families and female heads of household.
*   Assign resources to promote programs aimed at increasing the productive capacity of women and
facilitating access to means to develop their productive activities.
- 14-



(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector)
10. Additional Information
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
(i) the balance of payments current account  (i) balance of payments current account    (i) balance of payments current account l
deficit expected not to exceed 8 percent of   deficit expected to reach 9.5 percent of GDP deficit estimated at 5.7 percent of GDP -or
GDP in 1999; and                      in 1999; and                           1999; and
(ii) the overall fiscal deficit of the Central    (ii) the overall deficit of the Central  (ii) the overall deficit of the Central
Govemment expected not to exceed 8    Govemment projected at 6.6 percent of GDP Govemment estimated at 41 percent of
percent of GDP in 1999.               in 1999.                               GDP in 1999.
Output Indicators:
End of project
- 16-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs and Financing (Appraisal Estimate and Actual)
As defined at appraisal, the project financed 100 percent of the delivered cost of eligible imports on the
positive list, excluding import duties and taxes. Rectroactive financing for up to 20 percent of the credit
amount was provided for payments made for expenditures after October 24 but before the date of credit
signing. Disbursements totalled US$196,147,112.35 equivalent, equivalent to the credit amount of SDR
144.3 million (US$200.0 million equivalent at appraisal).
The positive list included:
* Construction materials
* Water, land and air transport vehicles
* Seeds
* Fertilizer
* Agriculture equipment and inputs
* School supplies and equipment
* Medical supplies and equipment
* Petroleum and fuel products
- Construction equipment and industrial machinery, spare parts and raw materials
Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate and Actual)
Because of the quick-disbursing, emergency nature of the credit, procurement procedures were streamlined.
As defined at appraisal, the credit financed only imports procured in accordance with the procedures
presented in the table below.
PROCUREMENT CATEGORY                       |PROCUREMENT METHOD
Public Sector Procurement
Commodities                                 Through established international commodity
markets, or other channels of competitive
procurement as defined in Section 2.65 of
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits
Goods, valued at or more than $1 million    Simplified international competitive bidding
procedures under Sections 2.63 and 2.64 of
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits
Goods, for contracts awarded between October 25, In accordance with international shopping
1998 and through June 30, 1999, valued at less than procedures under Section 3.5 and 3.6 of Guidelines
$1 million                                  for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits
Private Sector Procurement
Commodities                                 Through established intemational commodity
markets, or other channels of competitive
procurement as defined in Section 2.65 of
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   IDA     Credits
-17-



Goods for contracts valued at or more than $3  Simplified international competitve bidding
million                                       procedures under Section 2.63 and 2.64 of
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits
Goods for contracts valued at less than $3 million   Based on established commercial practices
All procurement of imports by the private sector of $3 million or above, or by the public sector under
contracts of $1 million and above and awarded after June 30, 1999 were to be subject to IDA's prior
review. In reality, none of the imports submitted by the Borrower for reimbursement by IDA were subj act
to prior review.
- 18-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
-19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Mivsions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Ratii.g
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Dev, lopment
Month/year    Count       Specialty                       Progress         OQkjective
Identification/Preparation
N/A-See below
Appraisal/Negotiation
November 1998                   lTaskManager
November 1998                 1   Procurement Specialist
November 1998                 1   Disbursement Officer
November 1998                 1   Financial Mgt. Specialist
November 1998                 1   Operations Analyst
Supervision
November 1999                  1  Financial Mgt. Specialist            S                 S
ICR
In view of the emergency nature of IDA assistance, the project was prepared on an extremely compressed
processing schedule. Following a Concept Review Meeting at HQ on November 20, 1998 (based on a
draft Project Information Document), a five person Identification/Preappraisal/Technical Appraisal visits d
Honduras for two days in late November, while a Task Manager and others coordinated processing at
Headquarters. Input on the macroeconomic impact of the hurricane, and its effect on the Govenrment's
macroeconomic program was provided by IDA staff that were assisting the Government in the preparation
of a preliminary reassessment of the macroeconomic situation, in parallel with project preparation effort.
Similarly, macroeconomic supervision was carried out in the course of country macroeconomic work.
(b) Staff:
I    Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             JUS$ (.000)
Identification/Preparation                2.0                         6.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                     3.5                         8.6
Supervision                               5.7                        14.7
ICR                                       0.9                         4.2
LTotal                                     12.2                       34.2
The above staffweek and US$ inputs should be seen as indicative only since they may not accurately reflect
the full inputs for preparation and supervision of this project. This project was processed in parallel witli a
similar Hurricane Emergency Project for Nicaragua, and the same Task Team was responsible for
preparing, and later supervising, both operations. Considerable work on macroeconomic and financial
sector issues was also taking place in parallel under other task codes. Therefore, the allocation of inputs
among both of these projects is not necesarily precise. Furthermore, the above inputs do not necesarily
- 20 -



coincide with the data in the FACT system since several staff carrying out hurricane emergency-related
tasks shortly after the emergency charged time--inadvertently--to this project. On the other hand, as
mentioned above, macroeconomic supervision was carried out in the course of country macroeconomic
work and is, therefore, not reflected in the above staffweek and US$ inputs.
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
M Macro policies                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
X Physical                                 OH OSUOM ON *NA
NX Financial                               O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
N Institutional Development                0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
N Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
2 Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
Z Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
Z Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
N Other (Please specify)                   0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
El Supervision                                       OHS * S  OU  OHU
LI Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Li Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
El Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  0  U  O HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
-24 -



