Page  1
April 6, 1992
Mr. Enam Ahmed Chaudhury
Secretary
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
 Republic of Bangladesh
Room 3, Block 8, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Re:
Credit No. 2048-BD
(Third Flood Rehabilitation (Emergency) Project)
Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
Dear Mr. Chaudhury:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated July 7, 1989 between the 
People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the International Development 
Association (the Association) for the Fourth Flood Control and Drainage Project.  We 
also refer to the letter dated January 2, 1992, from the Economic Relations Division 
requesting that proceeds of the captioned Credit be utilized to finance certain 
urgently needed rehabilitation and reconstruction of certain coastal embankments and 
related structures damaged during the cyclone that hit Bangladesh in April, 1991.
We are pleased to inform you that pursuant to the above request, the Association 
has agreed to amend the Development Credit Agreement as set out below:
A.
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
 
(1)
The following is added as a new Part G to the said Schedule 2:
 
Part G:
Rehabilitation and reconstruction of coastal embankments and related 
structures damaged by the cyclone of April, 1991, as well as afforestation  of 
foreshore areas in front of such embankments, in and around Sandwip Island and 
the 
coastal areas of Pattya upazilla, Chittagong and Cox's Bazar Districts.
(2)
The following is added at the end of Part A of said Schedule 2: "(excluding 
reconstruction and rehabilitation of embankments under Part G of the Project)".
B.
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
 
Category (1) (a) in the table set out in paragraph 1 of said Schedule 1 is 
amended as follows:
                        Amount of the
                        Credit Allocated        % of
                        (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)         to be financed
(1)   BWDB (Parts
      A and G
      of the
      Project):
 (a)  Civil works                                     90%
      (including
      construction
      materials)
      (i) for Part G           3,000,000
      (ii) Other              25,080,000
The said table with this amendment now reads as set out in the Attachment 
hereto.
Page  2
C.
Section 1.02 (i)
 
Section 1.02 (i) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
adding at its end, before the semi-colon, the following words: "(except any 
program under Part G of the Project)".
D.
Section 3.05
 
The following is added as a new Section 3.05 of the Development Credit 
Agreement:
Section 3.05.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, 
Part G of the Project shall be carried out by BWDB in accordance with 
administrative arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Association.
E.
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement
 
(1)
The paragraph in Part A of said Schedule 3 is amended by inserting the following 
words immediately after the word "goods" in the first line of said paragraph: "and 
civil works under Part G"; and
(2)
Part B is renumbered as Part C, Part C as Part D and Part D as Part E 
respectively and the following is inserted as a new Part B to said Schedule 3:
B.
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described 
in Part A(a) hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic 
contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
(3)
Paragraph 2 of Part D, as renumbered hereinabove, of said Schedule 3 is amended 
by inserting the following words immediately after the words "civil works" in the 
first line of said paragraph:
"except under Part G".
(4)
The following is added as a new paragraph 5 of Part D, as renumbered 
hereinabove, of said Schedule 3.
5.
Works for afforestation of foreshore areas in front of coastal 
embankments under Part G of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not 
exceeding SDR 500,000 equivalent, may be carried out through force account.
F.
Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement
 
The following is added as a new paragraph 4 to Schedule 5 to the Development 
Credit Agreement:
4.
(a)
The foregoing provisions of this Schedule shall not apply to work 
under Part G of the Project.  Works to be undertaken under Part G of the 
Project shall be selected in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall, prior to entering into any contract for civil 
works under Part G of the Project:  (i) cause BWDB to engage consultants to 
assist BWDB in construction supervision under said Part G of the Project, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) ensure that its 
Lands 
Ministry has given its approval for the Deputy Commissioner of the 
District where such civil works are to be carried out to acquire the land 
needed for the purposes of such civil works.
In addition, we are also pleased to inform  you that the Association has 
established June 30, 1993 as the Closing Date pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the 
enclosed form of confirmation and returning it to us.  Subject to your confirmation as 
indicated above, this amendment will be effective as of the date of this letter.
Yours sincerely,
Page  3
Jochen Kraske
Director
Country Department 1
South Asia Region
CONFIRMED
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
Date
