Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9282
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TOGO
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1169-TO)
JANUARY 25, 1991
.
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Technical Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otl!erwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          -     CFA franc (CFAC)
Calendar 1979                May 1981
US$1.00     -            CFAF 210                  CFAF 250
CFAF 1,000  =            US$  4.76                 US$  4.00
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Togo and OTP        -            January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
OTP   -  Office Togolais des Phosphates
P205  -  Phosphorous Pentoxide - Nutrient Element in Phosphatic Fertilizer
tpy   =  Metric tons per year
t     -  Tons



TrI WOtLo S8NE                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WaI3MOflt . O C 2o 3 3
U.S A
Office of DiOrceat--sueral
Operatla Evaluaclos
January 25, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Froject Completion Report on Togo - Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1169-TO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Togo - Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1169-TO)," prepared by the Europe. Middle East and North Africa
Region. with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This document kas. ,UWW dstnbuwn and mat be iind by mwcsnu aonl In UN P   ce
Of thei officl s uumL Ira conui mnur not otlerwl be ducd 'bot WotBi c DaiU n * n.



TOGO                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAl ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1169-TO)
TABLE CF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ....................i
Evaluation Summary ....................ii
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity.                                               1
B. Background. .
C.  Project Objectives and Description ...................         2
D.  Project Design and Organization.                               2
E.  Project Implementation .. ............................         3
F. Project Results.                                                5
G. Project Sustainability.                                         6
H. Bank Performance.                                               6
I.  Borrower Performance .................................        6
J. Bank/Borrower Relationship.                                    6
K. Consultant Services.                                            7
L. Project Documentation and Data.                                 7
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE.                    8
Lessons Drawn from the Project.                                    8
1.  Internal Organization of Project Unit.                         8
2. Relations with the World Bank.                                  9
3. Relations with the Governent.                                   9
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                       11
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .11
2. Project Timetable .11
3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements                 11
4. Project Implementation .12
5. Project Cost and Financing .13
6.  Project Results ....................    . . ......            14
7. Status of Covenants .21
8. Use of Bank Resources .21
ANNEX 1
Comments received from the Borrower on Part I .23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TOGO
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1169-TO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Phosphate
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project in Togo for which Credit 1169-TO
in the amount of US$5.7 million (SDR 4.8 million) was approved on June 24,
1981. The loan was closed on June 30, 1988, five years behind schedule, and
the last disbursement was made in 1989. SDR 52,897.27 of the credit was
cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division
of the Europe, Middle East and North African Region (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP) on
behalf of the Borrower (Part II). There were no cofinanciers. Comments from
the Borrower on Part I are attached as Annex 1.
Preparation of this PCR was done on the Bank's last supervision
mission on June 2-7, 1990, and is based inter alfa on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Credit and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
TOGO
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AiN) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1169-TO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Objectives.  The original objective of the project (Part I, para.
1.04) was to determine the technical and economic feasibility of a phosphate
fertilizer project in Togo for the manufacture and export of phosphoric acid
and phosphate fertilizer from the Dagbati rock and recovered slimes. A number
of technical and economic studies were to be carried out to evaluate the
financial viability as well as the technical and economic parameters of the
proposed investment project. However, the studies concluded that an
investment project was not viable because of the high cadmium levels found in
the Dagbati rock. The objectives of the project were, therefore, switched to
carrying out strategic studies of the future of Office Togolais des Phosphates
(OTP), the phosphate operating company.
2.          Implementation Experience.  The execution of the project during
the initial stages of the investment feasibility work proceeded quickly and
efficiently (Part I, para. 1.09). Once it was determined that a phosphate
fertilizer project was not viable, there was a slowing down of project
activity and a re-thinking of the next steps. This coincided with a major
down-turn in the fertilizer business world-wide and with a growing concern of
countries importing Togolese phosphate that the high cadmium levels could
bring toxicity to the human food chain. It also coincided with the beginning
of Togo's serious macroeconomic and financial difficulties.
3.          Because none of these events could have been foreseen, the project
needed a major reorientation which took a significant amount of time. In
retrospect, this was not a bad thing as it enabled all involved to come to
grips with the changes and with the new realities. The delay and prolongation
of the project were actually something of a blessing in disguise.
4.          Results.  The project achieved its objectives (Part I, para.
1.15). It proved the existence of vast new phosphate reserves and prevented
an unwise and major investment that would have hobbled OTP and Togo
financially. It allowed OTP to begin to tackle the issue of possible
fertilizer toxicity due to cadmium contamination and enabled OTP to begin
serious long term strategic planning. The positive (although delayed) results
of the project have prompted OTP to ask informally tor some additional
assistance from the Bank Group.



- iii -
5.          Sustainability.  The project was not designed to be sustainable
(Part I, para. 1.17). It was a Technical Assistance project with a single
purpose. However, to the extent that it has prompted requests for additional
assistance, it can be said to have engendered some degree of sustainability.
6.          Findings and Lessons Learned.  The studies carried out under the
project proved that: (a) any investment in expensive phosphoric acid and
fertilizer plants is not feasible in the present circumstances; (b) Togo
possesses vast resources of phosphate rock, but the economic viability for
producing and selling fertilizer is vulnerable given the current over-supplied
world market and the high cadmium levels found in Togolese phosphate rock; and
(c) OTP is a well-run, well-organized operation, but serious attention needs
to be paid to its strategic futur ? .
7.          The chief lesson learned from this project was that this sort of
TA operation can be very useful at a very low cost, and the Bank should follow
it up closely so that efforts can be reoriented as the need arises.



TOGO
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1169-TO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name       Phosphate Engineering & Technical Assistance
Project
Cre'tit No.        1169-TO
RVP Unit           Africa Regional Office
Country            Togo
Sector             Industry
Subsector          Mining, Fertilizer
B.    Background
1.01        Proposals by var'ous international engineering consortia to
establish a phosphate fertilizer plant in Togo date back to 1974. However,
none of these proposals established a satisfactory basis for initiating a
project.
1.02        In 1978, following a request by the Government of Togo, the Bank
reviewed these project proposals and concluded that all proposals were based
on processing high-grade rock, which commands a premium in the export market.
The Bank suggested, therefore, that the combined use of the Dagbati rock and
recovered slimes to manufacture phosphoric acid for the export market would
offer Togo the most economically attractive use of its low grade phosphate
resources.
1.03        In 1979, further geological and engineering studies were carried
out by OTP and financed under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 930-
TO). These preliminary studies concluded that there were adequate phosphate
rock reserves at Dagbati to support a commercial-size phosphoric acid and
phosphate fertilizer project. Because the investment envisaged was so large
(US$ 500 million), the Government decided to carry out a detailed feasibility
study to resolve outstanding technical market/marketing and economic issues,
undertake basic design and engineering, and determine the best project
implementation arrangements. The technical assistance project under review
was aimed to financo this preparatory work.



C.    Project Obiectives and Description
1.04        The original objective of the project was to determine the
technical and economic viability of developing a phosphate fertilizer project
in Togo. This project would manufacture, for export, phosphoric acid and
phosphate fertilizers from lower grade phosphate rock from the Dagbati
deposits and from recovered slimes. The project was to be executed in two
phases. The first would comprise a feasibility study and related geological,
mining, engineering and infrastructural studies to evaluate the technical and
economic attractiveness of the phosphate fertilizer project and to determine
the optimal project scope. The second phase would be carried out if the first
phase had confirmed a potentially economic phosphate fertilizer project.
1.05        However, after the completion of the feasibility study, it was
concluded that a phosphate fertilizer project would not be viable given the
high cadmium levels found in the Dagbati rock. The project was, therefore,
redirectedito carry cut strategic studies of the future of the Office Togolais
des Phosphates (OTP), the phosphate operating company
D.    Project Design and Organi7ation
1.06         This TA project was well designed, and its purpose was clear to
all.  The two-stage approach used was clearly articulated and well understood
and accepted by the Government, OTP and the Bank.  If the feasibility study
confirmed that a phosphate fertilizer project was viable, it was anticipated
that the proposed project would include a one million tpy rock beneficiation
plant, a 330,000 tpy phosphoric acid plant, and a partial conversion of the
acid into triple superphosphate.  It was estimated that a total investment of
US$ 500 million would be required.
The project included the following studies:
(a)   a detailed evaluation of the phosphate rock deposits at Dagbati;
(b)   laboratory and pilot plant tests on Dagbati rock and on phosphate
slimes recovered from existing rock beneficiation facilities;
(c)   further evaluation of other phosphate rock reserves in Togo;
(d)   estimation of investments and operating costs of the mining and
processing operations including all infrastructural requirements;
(e)   market analysis, market strategy and shipping arrangements;
(f)   preparation of a feasibility study to optimize the entire project;
(g)   preparation of basic engineering documents and a project
organization if the feasibility study had confirmed the economic
viability of the project.



-3-
1.07        In addition, to asist OTP in the execution of Phase I, a
specialized consultant was hired to draft te-ms of refere.ice, select
consultants for the tests and studies of Ph..e II, supervise the work of those
consultants and review the conclusions of the tests and studies.
1.08        No particular innovations were attempted as the technology and
methodologv for phosphate processing and for such techno-economic studies is
proven and well known. Therefore, satisfactory preparation for the TA project
was accomplished without difficulties. The timing was excellent in the sense
that the studies started in the midst of a boom market for phosphates and
great interest on the part of the international fertilizer investor community.
The vJarious institutional rules were clear, with OTP taking the lead under the
authority of the Government, and with close technical support from Bank staff.
This was a good arrangement. The many individual studies were well coordinated
with the results oi one study often forming the basis for the next.
E.    Project Implementation
1.09        All studies under the project were carried out under direct OTP
supervision. The results of the studies can be summarized as follows:
(a)   The feasibility study for the entire project was carried out in
two phases. The first phase ran from 1981 to 1984 and verified
that in Togo all requirements could be met to extend the mining
facilities and set up a phosphate fertilizer complex that would
produce for the international markets. This part of the study
included estimates for the construction of a phosphate fertilizer
complex at Kpeme, the supply _f low grade phosphate from Dagbati,
freshwater facilities, seawater cooling facilities, the import of
sulphur through the port of Lome, and the output of the facility
of solid fertilizer and phosphoric acid for export through the
port of Kpeme. This acid would be loaded by means of an offshore
pipeline.
The second phase of the feasibility study extended from 1984 to
1985 and evaluated the technical and economic situation in more
detail.
The feasibility study concluded that plant capacity should be
between 880 and 1,200 tpd to be competitive internationally and
that the project break-even cost would be reached at a FOB price
of US$ 360-400 per ton of P205. The study also suggested that,
because of the large amount of investment required and the
complexity of the industry, an association with (an) international
partner(s) would be highly desirable in order to minimize the
risks and the impact of such a project on the public finances of
Togo.
(b)   The studies and research activities on the development of the
phosphate deposits showed that there is a new seam of phosphate



-4-
rock deposit at Dagbati with a high carbonate content with
reserves of over 200 million ton of P205. This new seam is
abutting the southeast fringe of the deposit that is currently
being mined. Laboratory tests proved that beneficiation of the
high carbonate rock deposit is possible and that the quality of
the rock can be further improved.
A method was developed to improve the quality of the fines
recovered from the residues of the existing phosphate rock
production. This will make the fines suitable for the manufacture
of fertilizers of an acceptable quality for the local markets.
(c)   In addition to the studies on increasing and enhancing phosphate
rock production and starting a fertilizer production, OTP
conducted a review of its goals in the light of the prevailing
market situation. With the collapse of phosphate fertilizer
prices from USS 400-500 in 1979 to US$ 280-300 in 1982, the need
for this study became urgent. The study reassessed OTP's
strategic goals and confirmed OTP's need to strengthen its
capabilities and expertise in this area. It recommended that OTP
monitor the phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizer market and
that it seize opportunities for promoting a joint venture or
participation in phosphate fertilizer production.
The studies reconmended further that OTP analyze and monitor local
and regional markets to identify opportunities to set up modest
capacity plants for producing less rich and more economical grades
of fertill:ers for these markets.
During the period under survey, it became increasingly evident
that environmental concerns about the use of phosphate fertilizers
and the contamination with naturally occurring heavy metals,
especially cadmium, would have a great effect on the markets for
phosphate rock. Due to the difficulty in removing cadmium
directly from the rock, it will become necessary for Togo to
produce phosphoric acid, which is low in cadmium, to replace
phosphate rock exports. In producing phosphoric acid it will be
possible to simultaneously remove other undesirable impurities.
It was concluded that, in order for OTP to ensure its survival, it
will be necessary to enter the phosphate processing industry, a
step which most phosphate rock producers have already made.
1.10        There were no major variances between the actual and planned
implementation, except that the last parts of the study seemed to extend
inordinately once it was realized that the main objective of defining
parameters of an investment project was not a feasible alternative. The
global phosphate market changed drastically during the time of the study - as
did the markets for most primary commodities. It became, therefore, necessary
to orient the project into deeper, long range strategic planning. This



-5-
reorientation succeeded in providing the means to address more critical issues
concerning the country's phosphate industry.
1.11        The risk that the investment study might be negative was clearly
recognized at the time of appraisal. However, risk management strategies at
appraisal focused on minimizing the technical risks rather than on making
explicit provisions for switching the emphasis of the study from investment to
strategic planning in the event of a negative investment result.
1.12        The major change in the phosphate market was not foreseen at the
time of appraisal. The global debt crisis in the developing world suppressed
demand for all commodities in these countries, and the simultaneous explosive
growL.; of cheap food pioduction in the developed world (which depressed demand
for fertilizer) was not evident in 1980/81.
1.13        Project implementation during the early stages was satisfactory
because bech the Togolese and Bank staff gave adequate attention to the
geological resource evaluation and investment feasibility study. However,
once the feasibility study proved negative, interest and enthusiasm dissipated
and implementation slowed down.
1.14        As a result of the reorientation of 'he project, studies were
carried out to identify ways to eliminate or decrease the cadmium level of
Togolese phosphate rock which is higher than cadmium levels of Florida or
Morocco rocks, the leading phosphate rocks of the market. With the present
knowledge available it appears that cadmium can be eliminated in an economic
way only from the acid. Cadmium extraction directly from the rock is a costly
and difficult operation.
F.    Project Results
1.15        It can be clearly said that the project achieved its objectives
by:
-    proving the existence of vast new phosphate resources;
-    preventing a major investment which would have hobbled the
finances of both OTP and Togo;
-    giving OTP additional means to tackle the cadmium issue;
and
-    starting OTP on the track of studying its future strategies,
in particular the need to diversify its activities.
1.16         As mentioned earlier, the project objectives changed somewhat
during execution, but this was handled well and without difficulty. The
project demon!tgated that expansion of Togo's vital phosphate exports is
unlikely in the foreseeable future, and that phosphate exports are are at risk
by high levels of cadmium which can introduce toxicity in the food chain. The



-6-
cadmiuni question, as a potential environmental issue, prompted an in-depth
examination.   Project impact on the the technological environment was
considerable because of the many technical studies and the implementation of
two pilot plants. However, impact on human resource development was limited
to some training and on-the-job learning. The project also served to
strengthen the role of strategic planning in OTP.
G.   Project Sustainability
1.17         The project was designed as a one-shot TA exercise not meant to
engender sustainability. However, the project showed that there is a strong
need to continue strategic planning, and it is recommended that steps be taken
to assist OTP in this regard.
H.   Bank Performance
1.18         The Bank's main strength was in the identification, preparation
appraisal and early supervision stages when its close technical attention
enabled the main part of the project to be done quickly and well. The Bank's
main weakness was the lack of continuity in project supervision and inadequate
attention to the re-orientation of the project. This was particularly true
following the 1987 reorganization when a new group of staff took over
responsibility just as the negative results of the investment feasibility
became clear and just as Togo's macro economic and financial problems over-
shadowed most Bank activities there.
I.   Borrower Performance
1.19         OTP, which acted in the place of the borrower (the government),
performed well, managed the project efficiently, cooperated smoothly with the
Bank, and deployed its staff and consultant resources well. Its main strength
was its ability to control and coordinate some 30 consultants and suppliers
who carried out more than 70 different study or supply activities (see last
section of Part II). Its main weakness was its inability to establish a
permanent project implementation unit which could by now have become a much-
needed stra.egic planning unit in the company's management structure. The
need to set up such units, keeping them divorced from regular daily
operational work, is the main lesson of this operation and should be addressed
in the preparation and implementation of other comparable projects.
J.   Bank/Borrower Relationship
1.20          The strengths and weaknesses of the Bank-Borrower (OTP)
relationship have already been discussed. They included tight cooperation at
the start and very weak connections at the end of the project. The lesson to
be learned is that stability should be maintained throughout the project
despite negative results and changes in organizations.
1.21         Bank relationships with the government and other participating
institutions followed a similar path to the Bank-Borrower relationship, strong



-7-
at first, weak later. Again, more consistency would have been preferable.
1.22         OTP relationships with other entities were good.  Its good work
with the European Commission's Sysmin mining finance system resulted in Sysmin
becoming a de facto but not formal cofinancer. Sysmin is picking up the
financing of many studies to follow those started under the IDA credit.
K.   Consultant Services
1.23         Consultants and suppliers played a major role in the project as
can be deduced from the large number involved. In TA projects like this one,
it is natural that there would be a big role for consultants. In general, all
performed well, and many have been asked back for follow-up work. However,
nothing special can be implied from their involvement. On a more general
level, the need for so many consultants in this project points to the need for
and importance of a healthy consultant industry worldwide.
L.   Project Documentation and Data
1.24         The legal agreements were satisfactory and are good models to
follow in future similar operations. The Staff Appraisal Report worked well
to guide project implementation in its early stages, but became almost
irrelevant when major changes affected the phosphate market, and when the
cadmium issue became important. This was not a serious problem. However,
data for the PCR took some digging. Project implementation databases should
be specifically designed to produce PCR data (especially for Part III)
virtually with a few key strokes. Relevant data should be easily accessible
and much needs to be done to harmonize project implementation reporting and
data required for PCRs.



TOGO
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1169-TO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE l/
Lessons Drawrn from the Project
The lessons learned from the project will be discussed under three
headings:
-     internal organization of the Project Unit and relations with
consultants;
-     relations with the World Bank;
-     relations with the Government.
1.    Internal organization of Project Unit
Because the project manager was also the director of OTP's
Industrial Operations Department and therefore responsible for supervising all
its production and R&D operations, the project was presented and treated as a
legitimate expansion of the agency's activities, and therefore as a production
objective.
Consequently, all service units called on to participate in
project execution took a highly motivated approach to their designated tasks
and displayed special care and an exceptional degree of commitment to seeking
the best of possible solutions.
This also explains why the simply organized project management
arrangements set up proved successful, despite the number and complexity of
the studies and other activities to be carried out.
Although all technical matters were dealt with by existing OTP
divisions, particularly its Industrial Operations Department, economic ar.d
financial matters were handled through the Administration and Finance
Department, under the supervision of its director.
The fact that the services of a consultant specializing in the
fertilizer industry were available to OTP at all times throughout the various
1/ A lengthy and technical Project Completion Report has been prepared
by the Borrower and is on file in the AF1 Department.



phases of the project meant that new problems could be examined in conjunction
with him as they came up, an arrangement which proved extremely efficient.
OTP engineering staff who took part in the different phases of the
studies program added to their professional knowledge, particularly in such
areas as ore benefication and the manufacture of sulfuric and phosphoric acids
and phosphate fertilizers. This valuable experience has continued since then
via the work of the pilot phosphoric acid laboratory, visits to the plants of
OTP's clients and investigation of the industrial problems encountered at
them.
Participation in this project also gave the OTP team basic
experience of all stages of the process of execution of a large-scale
industrial project.
Unfortunately, the lack of young engineers on staff meant that it
was impossible to form either a complete unit or the type of 'nursery"
environment in which young professionals received train:ng through contact
with consultants.
Relations with the consultants posed no unusual difficulties.
Efficiency consists in k:icwing when to stop in the attempt to solve a
particular problem: extensive scientific investigation may be unavoidable in
some instances, but in others more immediate solutions may be perfectly
adequate. It was important to make judicious use of the consultants'
services, since their responsibilities vis-&-vis the project were after all
fairly narrow.
2.   Relations with the World Bank
Contractual arrangements with the Bank were spelled out in the
following documents:
-     the Project Agreement between the Bank and OTP;
-     the terms of reference for project consultants and the like;
-     Bank documents setting out guidelines governing selection of
consultants, procurement and disbursement.
The Bank was provided with quarterly and annual reports, which
were followed by consultation and discussion meetings agreed on mutually and
held either at the Bank or in Togo for the purpose of obtaining Bank agreement
on major decisions or learning its opinion on project-related matters. Bank
staff, especially those attached to its Industrial Operations Department and
West Africa Programs Department, gave us their full confidence, and readily
made themselves available to assist throughout the course of the project.
3.   Relations with the Government
The following Togolese ministries were involved in the project:
-     Ministry of Planning, responsible for the feasibility study;



- 10 -
-     Ministry of Mines, responsible for the study to evaluate phosphate
deposits and for supervising OTP;
-     Ministry of Public Enterprises, responsible for supervising OTP;
-     Ministry of the Economy and Finance, responsible for adriiiistering
the proceeds of IDA Credit 1169-TO and transferring them to OTP.
An interministerial committee was therefore set up to monitor the
project closely and report regularly to the separate Ministries themselves.
The Planning Department of the Ministry of Planning was very closely
associated with all major project decisions and policy choices, with the fact-
finding studies that were a necessary preliminary to the full-scale economic
and financial studies, and with the crucial question of the extent of Togolese
participation in the joint venture. In this regard, the reports that passed
between the Project Unit and the Planning Department were particularly
effective.
The most important lesson came from the evaluation of the impact
of the project on the national economy:
=     The scale of the investment to be undertaken, allied with the
technical risk involved (choice of technologies, monitoring and
supervision of project works during the execution process, getting
the industrial complex into operation), and likely management
difficulties (plant operations, maintenance, marketing and sales,
finance), led to a conclusion that it would be advisable to seek
foreign partners who were willing to participate, possibly to the
point of taking up a majority holding in the new industrial
corporation.
-     Given the extent of the financial commitments Togo would have to
make to this whole operation, and the degree of commercial and
financial risk created by gloomy projections for the phosphoric
acid and phosphate fertilizer sector, the Government and OTP
reached a decision not to go ahead with the project for the moment
but to re-evaluate OTP's own strategic development plans.
In short, then, relations between the Goverxunent on the one hand,
represented by the Ministry of Planning, and OTP on the other, represented by
the Project Unit, rere very close and very productive.
The L ._lusions and results of the series of studies made, which
were discussed at the donors' conference held in Lome in June 1986, attest to
the accuracy of this assessment.



TOGO
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1169-TO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Technical Assistance Credit No. 930-TO
2.   Project Timetable
Date             Date          Date
Planned          Revised       Actual
Identification                  --               --             1979
Preparation                     1979-80          --             1979-80
Appraisal                       "2/81            --             02/81
Loan Negotiation                05/81            --             05/81
Board Approval                  06/81            --             06181
Loan Signature                  07/81            --             10/81
Loan Effective                  09/81            --             05/82
Completion                      07/83            --             06/87
Loan Closing                    12/83            --             06/88
Comments   (The Loan Closing Date was formally postponed three times.  Date of
last closing date extension 06/30/87.)
3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS Million)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Appraisal Est.       1.6    4.3    5.7       --      --     --      --      --
Actual                 --     --      --     --      --     --    3.4    5.6
Actual Z of Est.       --     --      --     --      --      --   59.7   98.3
Date Final Disbur.   --       --      --     --      --     --          07/89
Note   A PPF was approved on 07/20/81 for US$700.00.  This advance has been
repaid from the Credit.



- 12 -
Follow-on Project
Possible projects:
Name:      Improvement of mining techniques and methods, not yet
decided
Production of fertilizers project - has been
postponed.
4.   Project Implementation
Indicators         Appraisal Estimate                     PCR Estimate
Indicator 1        Evaluation of new phosphate            Study completed
deposit including laboratory           successfully
testing and pilot plant work
Indicator 2        Phosphoric acid manufacture            Study completed
feasibility study
Indicator 3        Market analysis, strategy,             Study completed
economics phosphate fertilizer
production
Comments   In the course of the 10-year implementation of this project the
adverse effects of cadmium in phosphate rock came to attention: studies were
started in the framework of this project to remove cadmium from the rock.
These studies have not yet been finalized.



- 13 -
5.   Proiect Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
Items                    Appraisal Estimates         Revised           Actual
Foreign exchange only
Local   Foreign   Total               (see note)
Cost    Exch.      Cost      Phase I   Phase II   Total
------------------- (US$ Million) --------------------
Rock beneficia-
tion & reactiv.
tests                   0.2     0.6        0.8        0.42           -      0.42
Mining Plan
Mine Studies            0.4      0.2        0.6       0.08           -      0.08
Infras. Studies         0.1     0.4        0.5        0.30           -      0.30
Market Studics          0.0      0.1       0.1        Cost included in Evalua-
tion Study.
Evalu. Poten. Depos.  0.9        1.0       1.9        0.01          3.44    3.45
Basic Eng.
Ec. Analysis            0.2      2.2       2.4        0.63          0.80    1.43
Base Cost               1.8     4.5        6.3
Physical Cont.          0.2     0.5        0.7
Price Cont.             0.3     0.7        1.0
Total Project Cost    2.3       5.7        8.0
Inter. Proj. Impl.    0.8       0.1        0.9
Total Finance Req.    3.1        5.8       8.9        1.44          4.24    5.68
Note:  Local costs were fully absorbed by OTP and not reported.
The categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit are
as follows:
(1)  Equipment for drilling                                USS   500,000
(2)  Consultrnt services for Phase I                             500,000
(3)  Consultant services for Phase II                          3,000,000
(4)  Refunding of advance                                        700,000
(5)  Unallocated                                               1,000,000



- 14 _
B.  Project Financing
Source                            Planned                          Final
(Loan Agreement)                 (US$ million)
(US$ million)
IBRD                                   0                               0
IDA                                  5.7                             5.6
IDA (SDR)                           (4.8)                           (4.8)
Cofinancing                            0                                0
Domestic                              3.1                              -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators       Appraisal Estimates                  Estimated Actual
Indicator I      Better design of mining        The results of the studies in-
activity & development of    dicate an increase in mining
phosphate fertilizer           effic. and possible dev. of new
industry in Togo.             phosphate deposit.
Indicator 2      Feasibility study for          Although Togo has an .tcellent
development of phosphate       starting point for fertilizer
fertilizer industry in        prod., present depressed market
Togo.                          requires postponement of imple-
mentation.
Indicator 3      Market study for ferti-        See Indicator 2.
lizer production.
Note 1   Present technical assistance had an unexpected benefit.  The rather
high cadmium content of Togo rock phosphate has come to the attention of
environmental and health authorities wcrldwide. This assistance project,
although not originally, provided funds for studying the removal of cadmium
from the rock and/or its removal from phosphoric acid produced using this
rock.
Note 2   Training of OTP staff was included in different loan items and
completed successfully.
B. Economic Impact
Not applicable.



-15-
C. Financial Impact
Not applicable.
D. List of Project Studies
TYPE OF STUDY                         ORGANIZATIONS PARTICIPATING
Mineralogical testing of Dagbati
Phosphates
-  Preliminary tests                           - Laboratory research:
FISONS
KEMIRA OY
RHONE POULENC
-  Supplementary tests                              PRAYON
- Summary reports by DUETAG
-  Ongoing tests                               -  Samples prepared by:
OTP
BRGM
FCB
-  Supplementary TSP tests                     -  Interpretation and
recommendations: DUETAG
Benefication of Dagbati Phosphates
- Metallurgical study                          -  BRGM
-  Semi-industrial trials and study            -  FCB (CEREP, FONTAINEBLEAU-
of washing plant                               AVON)
Interpretation and recommenda-
tions by OTP and TECMIN
Estimation of Reserves and study               OTP (prospecting analyses)
of seams with high carbonate content           Test drilling data
- BRGM: Evaluation of new
seams and benefication
trials
- 2 SLANSKY reports (May '81
and April '82)



- 16 -
TYPE OF STUDY                            ORGANIZATIONS PARTICIPATING
- Recommendations by OTP and
TECHIN Interpretation by BRGM
Report on study of high
carbonate seams
Mining Studies
-  exploitation of Dagbati                     -  OTP
TECMIN
- mine railway                                 -  OTP + DELAPORTE
Group (specialist surveyors)
-  rail transport                              -  TECMIN, OTP and ALSTHOM
- maintenance requirements at Kpeme            -  SSCM
- mine service facilities                      -  SOGELERG, OTP and TECMIN
Interpretation and -ecom-
mendations by OTP aud TECMIN
Infrastructure Studies
-  Electric power supply to complex            -  SOGELERG
OTG/TECMIN
-  Fresh water supply                          -  LACKNER
-  Rail link between plant and port of         -  OTP/TECMIN/CFT
Lome
-  Lome port terminal                          -  LACKNER
Interpretation by TECMIN
Recommendations by OTP
and TECMIN
Study of Chemicals Complex
-  Sulfuric acid plant
)
-  Phosphoric acid plant                       ) DUETAG, OTP/TECHMIN
-  TSP plant
-  Reception/dispatch at complex and           -  DUETAG (study and inter-
port of Lome                                  pretation)



TYPE OF STUDY                           ORGANIZATIONS PARTICIPATING
- General service facilities
- Offices, workshops, misc.
- Wharf and seawater pumping station           -  SUBOCEANIC
Consultants BOUYGUES
Offshore OTP/TECMIN
-  Phosphoric acid sea-line                    -  NKT
OTP/TECMIN
-  Living quarters                             -  OTP
-  Soil study (Kpeme site and port             - LNBTP (Lome)
areas)                                         OTP
Recommendations by OTP/TECMIN
-  Investments                                 -  DUETAG
OTP/TECMIN
-  Production Costs                            -  DUETAG
OTP/TECMIN
- Economic and Financial Analysis              -  SOFRESID
-  Study of Project Macroeconomic Impact       - CHEM SYSTEMS
-  Phase I Summary Report                      - OTP/TECMIN
- Memorandum                                   -  OTP/TECMIN
-  Phase II Feasibility Study                  -  CHEM SYSTEMS
. Site selection
. Technical/economic study
. Market Study
. Main Report
. Executive Report
. Project Prospectus
MAIN DEVELOPMENT
1.1  Dagbati ore (supplementary                -  FCB
mineralogical tests)



- 18 -
TYPE OF STUDY                           ORGANIZATIONS PARTICIPATING
1.2  Enhancement of fines                      -  FCB
1.3  Study of high carbonate seams             -  PAULO ABIB (Brazil)
-  Flotation tests (pilot industrial    -  BRGM
set-up)
- Other flotation tests
-  Prefeasibility study; technico-        -  BRGM
economic evaluation of plant to
product 1,200 tpy of concentrate
at 68Z BPL (mine mechanical
facilities, flotation, filtration)
1.4  Benefication pilot plant:                 -  IFDC, HAZEN QUIN
-  Equipment                                 (USA)
-  Building                                  AFRICAINE DE MONTAGE
- Auxiliary equipment
-  Supplementary lab equipment            - Miscellaneous European
suppliers
1.5 Pilot phosphoric acid laboratory:
-  Fitting up of lab, preliminary         -  TECHNICONSULT
training
-  Further training, optimization         -  DUETAG
of procedures and lab equipment
1.6 Supplementary prospecting for
phosphates low in toxic substance
content, to mix with or substitute
for current commercial phosphates:
-  Index for Bassar Phase I               -  BRGM/France + BRGM/
-  Index for Bassar Phase II                 Nigeria + BNRM (Togo)
and for the Oti valley
Prospecting for and enhancement           -  BRGM/Nigeria + BNRM
of useful substances from                    (Togo)
deposits being mined currently:
- clay, limestone, gravel, sand
- other useful substances



- 19-
TYPE OF STUDY                           ORGANIZATIONS PARTICIPATING
1.7 Cadmium removal:
- From phosphoric acid:
-  Continuous use of Budenheim         -  C.F. BUDENHEIM 'W. Germany)
cadmium removal process
-  Technico-economic evaluation        -  DUETAG
- Tests under industrial pilot
set-up
- From phosphate rock:
-  Formulation of process for          -  FCB
calculation/removal of cadmium
-  Economic evaluation study of        -  FCB
above process on 150 tph of
calcinated ore
-  Test of phosphoric acid manu-       -  COFAZ
facture.from calc4nated (FCB)
phosphate
-  Laboratory study:                      -  IFDC (USA)
Investigation/evaluation of all
promising leads re. phosphate rock
and phosphoric acid
-  Industrial pilot set-up:               -  FULLER & CO (USA)
Industrial pilot testing (2-3 tph)
of a process of cadmium calcination/
removal/storage to produce calci-
nated phosphate
1.8  Partially acidulated phosphate            -  IFDC (USA)
Technico-economic evaluation study
ORGANIZATION: PREPARATIONS FOR PROJECT
2.1 Monitoring/training of executive
staff re: project



- 20 -
2.2  OTP Medium-Term Strategic Plan            -  CHEM SYSTEMS
2.3  West Africa Fertilizer Market             -  1-DC (USA)
Outlook Study
2.4 Preparation of documentation:
- By OTP
-  Atlas of phosphate rock deposits       -  DUETAG



- 21 -
7. Status of Covenants
Brief Description of Covenant                  Compliance                Remarks
1.  OTP shall maintain records                    Yes                       --
adequate to reflect its opera-
tions and financial condition.
2.  OTP shall furnish to IDA, after               Yes                       --
the end of each year, certified
copies of its financial state-
ments audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA.
3.  Borrower shall take no action                 Yes
causing the projected internal
cash generation of OTP to be less
than 1.3x projected debt for
any fiscal year.
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989   1990
Preparation      (pre 1982)
Appraisal         (pre 1982)
Negotiations     (pre 1982)
Supervision            10.9  10.2  9.7   6.3   2.8   4.2   0.6    0.6   1.1
Other                                                                       1.6



- 22 -
B. Mission Data
Month/    No. of    Days in    Speciali-    Performance
Year      Persons   Field        zation        Rating Status
Status   Trend
Identification    1976/
1980
Appraisal          02181         2          5        CE, FA
Supervision 1      06/81         1          3        FA              1        1
Supervision 2      11/81         2          3        CE, FA          1        2
Supervision 3      03/82         1         2         FA              1        2
Supervision 4      01/83         2        1/2        CE, FA          1        2
Supervision 5      03/85         2          2        CE, FA          2        2
Supervision 6      11/85         1          ?        FA              1        1
Supervision 7      10/89         1          7        FA              1        1
CE = Chemical Engineer
FA = Financial Analyst
June 1990
(Togol.PCR)



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Unofficial Translation of Letter from:
Office Togolais de Phosphates
P.O.Box 3200
Lome, Togo
Lomd, November 8, 1990
Attention: M. Michel Wormser
Acting Division Chief
Industry and Energy Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Dear Sirs,
Please find attached our comments on the Project Completion
Report prepared by the Bank.
Sincerely,
P. Y. Tchalla
Director Gene.~al
Copies to: H. E. Komla Alipui
Minister of Finance
H. E. Gbondjide Koffi Djondo
Minister of Industry and State Enterprises
World Bank Resident Mission, Togo



24 -
Comments Received from the Borrower on Parts I and III of the PCR
Section B: from (1.01) to (1.03)
We believe that the wording of these paragraphs should be changed to
reflect more closely the actual sequence of events, and we therefore propose
the following version:
"1.01 In 1978, in order to develop Togo's phosphate resources to the
full, the Government applied for World Bank assistance in
assessing the potential of the Togolese phosphate industry.
"As a result of this application, a miss4-n financed by IDA Credit
930-TO was sent to Togo to assess the position and propose
appropriate action.
"1.02 The mission examined the state of the mining industry, evaluated
existing reserves, and then proposed that the deposits be
systematically prospected (including the lower grade seams) and
that downstream development be carried out leading to the
manufacture of phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizer.
"The mission arranged for supplementary prospecting efforts to be
carried out by OTP and had the resulting samples analyzed and
studied by IFDC/USA before making its recommendations.
"1.03 On the basis of these recommendations, the World Bank proposed a
feasibility study and prepared terms of reference in cooperation
with OTP, which was appointed as executing agency. Togo was
granted Credit 1169-TO, and Agreements were signed by the World
Bank, the Government of Togo and OTP for launching the following
studies:
-     appraisal of the technical, commercial and economic problems
of establishing a phosphoric acid and fertilizer plant on an
international scale;
-     appraisal of the facilities necessary for staffing and
implementation;
-     prospecting of deposits, particularly the development of
lower grade phosphate seams."
Section C (1.04)
This paragraph describes the first phase, but not the second.
1.05  We believe that this paragraph should be revised as follows.
"However, after the completion of the feasibility study, it was
concluded that a phosphate fertilizer project would not be viable
given the considerable downturn in the prices of finished products
in the international fertilizer market."



- 25 -
The lack of viability is not related to cadmium levels.
Section D (1.06)
We believe that these items should be presented in the following
order:
(a), (b), (d), (c), then (f and g).
Item vb) should be revised to read as follows:
"beneficiation of both Dagbati rock and the slimes from which
phosphate fines could be recovered."
1.07 This paragraph should be amended in line with the following
proposal:
"In addition, to assist OTP in the execution of Phase I of the
project, a consultant specializing in the industrial-scale
chemical processing of phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizer
was selected to draft terms of reference for the chemical studies,
supervise the tests and review the findings."
1.08  'Very ,ew significant innovations were achieved, as the technology
and methodology for phosphate processing are proven and well known
to specialists. Therefore, preparation for the TA project was
accomplished without difficulty.
"The studies started in the midst of a boom market and the project
created great interest on the part.... " The rest of the text
remains unchanged.
Section E (1.09)(a), page 4, 3rd line [TN: Page 3 of the English-language
version; presumably the 3rd line of the last paragraph of (a)]
"...at an FOB price of at least US$360."
(1.10)(c), page 5, paragraph 1 [TN: sic; presumably (l.09)(c), page 4, final
paragraph, in the English-language version]
This paragraph contains inaccuracies, and we propose the
following:
"...Togo should concentrate on producing low-cadmium phosphoric
acid instead of directly exporting high-cadmium phosphate rock,
since it has been proven that the removal of cadmium from the acid
is technically and industrially feasible, and would be much less
expensive than removing it directly from the rock. Moreover, the
process of removing cadmium also removes other impurities and thus
purifies the acid."



_ 26 -
(1.13), page 5, final phrase
We would suggest the following:
"...interest and enthusiasm were redirected toward the following
more difficult -- and longer-term -- studies:
_     for developing lower grade rock:
-     a complementary study of Dagbati rock;
-     a study of fines;
-     a study of rock deposits with carbonate content;
-     cadmium removal and the purification of the acid;
-     for developing the deposits as a whole:
-     the search for other low-cadmium phosphate deposits;
-     the optimization of current operations through the
development of other minerals;
-     other studies relating to the staffing facilities not only
for the future project but also for the OTP studies."
Section J (1.22), lines 4 and 5 [TN: lines 2 and 3 in the English-language
version
We propose that the phrase "...Sysmin becoming a de facto but not
formal cofinancier" be eliminated.



