Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE COPY
Report No. P-3084-To
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO' THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR THE
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING
AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 4, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
Calendar 1979            May 1981
US$1.00     =               CFAF 210               CFAF 250
CFAF 1,000  =              US$4.76                 US$4.00
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Togo and OTP            January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CIMAO     Ciments de l'Afrique de  l'Ouest
OTP       Office Togolais des Phosphates
P20s5 =  Phosphoric Pentoxide - Nutrient Element in Phosphatic Fertilizer
tpy    =  Metric tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Togo
Beneficiary:            Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP)
Amount:                  SDR 4.8 million (US$5.7 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms
Onlending Terms:        Government of Togo to OTP for 10 years including
3 years of grace at 11% per annum.
Project Description:   The objective of this project would be to determine
the technical and economic viability of developing a
phosphate fertilizer project in Togo. Such a phosphate
fertilizer project would manufacture for export phos-
phoric acid and phosphate fertilizers from lower grade
phosphate rock from the Dagbati deposits and from
recovered slimes. The proposed engineering project
would comprise a feasibility study and related geo-
logical, engineering and infrastructural studies.
It would be executed in two phases, with the second
phase carried out if the first phase has confirmed
a potentially economic phosphate fertilizer project.
Phase I
(a)  evaluation of the phosphate deposits at Dagbati
which are considered to be of adequate quality
and quantity to support a phosphate fertilizer
project. Further geological work would be carried
out to estimate precisely the reserves in the
deposits, develop a mining plan and assess mining
equipment requirements. Experimental work would
be carried out to establish the optimal bene-
ficiation process for this rock;
(b)  laboratory and pilot plant tests on phosphate
rock and on phosphate slimes recovered from the
existing rock beneficiation plant, to determine
optimum processing conditions for the manu-
facture of phosphoric acid and phosphate
fertilizers;
This document has a restricted distribution aid may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



- ii -
(c) preparation of an interim report based on the
above studies assessing the economic attrac-
tiveness of the phosphate fertilizer project
and determining the optimal project scope;
Phase II
(d) determination of the optimal location for the
phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizer plants
taking into account infrastructural requirements
such as fresh water, effluent disposal, railways
and port facilities, and estimation of investment
and operating costs for alternative scopes of
full-scale mining and processing operations;
(e) market analysis, marketing strategy and shipping
arrangement studies to determine prospects for
exporting phosphate fertilizer products;
(f) further evaluation of other potential phos-
phate rock reserves adjoining Togo's main
known deposits; and
(g) if the feasibility report confirms the tech-
nical and economic viability of a phosphate
fertilizer project in Togo, preparation of
basic engineering and contract documents, and
study of project organization.
The major risk facing the proposed engineering project is that if the feasibility
study were to conclude that the final project is not technically and economically
viable, the investments made in the study would not be recovered, apart from
those concerning the evaluation of Togo's other potential phosphate deposits.
This risk has been minimized by initiating the study only after substantial
core drilling and rock processing tests have been completed, and economically-
sized phosphate deposits have been proven at Dagbati.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:
The estimated cost of the project, exclusive of taxes from which it
is exempt, is as follows:
Foreign      Local     Total
----- TUS$ millions) ------
Rock Beneficiation and Reactivity Testing                  0.6         0.2        0.8
Mining Plan and Mine Studies                               0.2         0.4        0.6
Infrastructural Studies                                    0.4         0.1        0.5
Market Studies                                             0.1         0.0        0.1
Further Evaluation of Potential Deposits                   1.0         0.9        1.9
Basic Engineering, Financial/Economic Analysis,
and Feasibility Report                                   2.2         0.2        2.4
Base Cost                                             4.5         1.8        6.3
Physical contingencies                                     0.5         0.2        0.7
Price contingencies                                        0.7         0.3        1.0
Total Project Cost                                    5.7         2.3        8.0
Interest Charges during Project Implementation             0.1         0.8        0.9
Total Financing Required                              5.8         3.1        8.9
Financing Plan:                                              Foreign      Local      Total
----- (US$ millions) ------
IDA                                                        5.71/        -         5'71/
OTP                                                        0.1         3.1        3.2
Total                                               5.8         3.1        8.9
Estimated Disbursments:                              IDA FY    1982         1983       1984
---- (US$ millions)…
Annual                                                     1.6         2.7        1.4
Cumulative                                                 1.6         4.3        5.7
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Map: IBRD 15657
1/ Includes the refinancing of an advance of US$700,000 equivalent from the
Project Preparation Facility.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO FOR THE
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.            I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Togo for SDR 4.8 millions (US$5.7 million
equivalent) to help finance the Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms. The proceeds of the
Credit would be on-lent by the Government to the Office Togolais des Phosphates
(OTP) for 10 years including 3 years of grace at 11% interest.
PART I - THE ECONOMYI!
2.        The most recent economic report on Togo, Report No. 458a-TO "Current
Economic Situation and Prospects of Togo" was issued on December 30, 1974.
Economic missions visited Togo in December 1978, and in October 1980. Their
findings are incorporated below and in Annex I which contains basic country
data.
Economic Performance
3.        Togo is a small country (56,000 km2) in which trade has always
featured prominently in overall economic activity. Population is currently
estimated at 2.4 million and GNP per capita is US$340. Phosphate mining has
been the principal source of foreign exchange earnings, accounting for an
estimated 39% of export revenues in 1979/80, and receipts from phosphates
represent nearly 30% of Government revenues.
4.         Slow growth and increasing financial disequilibria were the salient
features of the Togolese economy during the 1975-80 period. The slow growth
represented a deceleration from historical growth trends, and was the result
of a drop in phosphate production and exports in 1975 and a recovery to full
capacity thereafter, and of stagnation or decline in the production of export
crops. The 1974/75 boom in world phosphate prices contributed to a substantial
increase in export earnings and Government revenues, and prompted the Govern-
ment to adopt an ambitious Development Plan for 1976-80.
5.        Growth in real GDP averaged less than three percent per annum
during the 1975-80 period. Gross domestic expenditure outpaced production,
with the result that the resource gap widened significantly through 1978. Due
to the rapid increase in public investment, gross domestic investment rose
sharply to exceed 50% of GDP in 1978, but declined to an estimated 21% in
1980, as growing fiscal constraints necessitated a cutback.
6.        In the primary sector, accounting for 30% of GDP and 80% of employ-
ment, growth has been limited by inadequate investments and extension services,
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as in the President's Report for
the Fourth Highway Project (P-3031-TO dated April 16, 1981) which was
approved by the Executive Directors on May 7, 1981.



- 2 -
insufficient price incentives, and occasional droughts. Although Togo relies
largely on traditional production techniques, it is generally self-sufficient
in food crops, except during serious droughts. Yet the relative neglect of
agriculture has meant that only tiny portions of the cultivable land used to
grow food crops benefit from fertilizer, insecticides, and selected seeds.
Yields are consequently low. Production of export crops, mainly cocoa and
coffee, has been hampered until recently by less attractive producer prices
and by aging trees with declining yields.
7.        The secondary sector experienced drastic swings during the 1975-80
period. Production of phosphate rock slumped badly in 1975 due to a recession-
induced decline in demand but recovered almost completely during the following
two years. The massive investments channelled into industrial projects did
not boost real GDP on account of the little or occasionally even negative
value added of several new industrial units. Construction went through boom
and bust as output doubled between 1975 and 1978, because of greatly stepped-up
investment, and subsequently declined to the 1975 volume. From a peak of
10,000 in 1978, employment in construction was cut to 4,000 in 1980. The
capital-intensive nature of many investments led to an increase in demand for
energy, most of which is met through imports of electricity and petroleum
products.
8.         In the tertiary sector growth was concentrated in public services
and other private (mainly financial) services during the 1975-80 period. The
rapid increase in public services was caused by substantial recruitment into
the civil service in 1975-78, which grew during the whole period from 23,000
to 39,000. The growing size and sophistication of the banking system accounted
for the rapid expansion of other private services, while economic activity in
private transport and commerce, which are little affected by public interven-
tion, was more in line with the rest of the economy.
Public Finance
9.         In 1975 current revenues of the Government nearly doubled to
CFAF 33 billion as revenue from phosphates tripled from CFAF 4 to 12 billion.
In 1976, the first year of the third Five-Year Plan, the Government embarked
upon its expansionary program just when the phosphate market collapsed.
However, while phosphate prices fell, output rose and--supplemented by higher
import duty receipts--current revenue nevertheless continued to rise. Although
current expenditure also increased rapidly, mainly due to a rising wage bill,
a sizeable surplus was left to finance investment and debt service.
10.       Public investment (in current prices) of the Administration, state
enterprises and agencies increased from CFAF 30 billion in 1975 to CFAF
88 billion in 1978, and continued at the still high but reduced rate of
CFAF 51 billion in 1980, as disbursements were made on projects being imple-
mented. In part because of the heavy reliance on foreign financing, which was
often project-tied, the investments undertaken differed greatly from those
foreseen in the 1976-80 Development Plan. Compared to its predecessors, the
Plan had placed more emphasis on rural development and, to a lesser extent, on
social services. However, during implementation major shortfalls were exper-
ienced for these categories, while more than planned was spent on infrastructure,
tourism and industry.



- 3 -
11.       Much of the foreign borrowing was undertaken on commercial terms to
finance the investment programs of newly-created state enterprises, which upon
their completion were unable to service their foreign debt. This situation
led to the assumption by the Treasury of a rapidly rising debt service burden.
By 1977/78 debt service had risen to such an extent that the Treasury had
accumulated sizeable arrears, and in 1979 the Togolese authorities negotiated
a financial program with the IMF, and a rescheduling of debt obligations was
obtained through the Paris Club. Togo adhered scrupulously to the new terms,
but even with the debt relief, available resources were severely strained
during 1980, when CFAF 14 billion (25% of current revenue) had to be allocated
to debt service. Because of the short-term nature of the agreement, amorti-
zation and interest due by the Government would have amounted to CFAF 37 billion
(over 50% of current revenue) in 1981. Togo therefore undertook a second round
of debt negotiations, and in February 1981 an agreement was reached on the
rescheduling of most of Togo's debt due in 1981/82. In February 1981 the
IMF approved a stand-by arrangement in the upper credit tranches in support
of the Government's financial and economic program for 1981/82.  The program
aims at further reducing both the deficit in the current account of the
balance of payments and the budget deficit, and at strengthening management
of existing state enterprises and implementing a selective investment policy.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
12.       The Fourth Development Plan, 1981-85, which was recently approved by
the National Assembly, sets forth the Government-s goals in general terms:
promoting industrialization through the development of small-scale enterprises;
promoting rural development in order to reach self-sufficiency; developing
transport and improving the maintenance of the road network; developing
research and human resources and promoting regional development. The total
amount of the Plan's "priority program"--CFAF 250 billion--is, however,
substantially in excess of the resources likely to be available, given the
debt service burden now facing the Government. In recognition of this fact
the Togolese authorities have undertaken to revise the Plan, excluding projects
whose implementation is doubtful and concentrating on those with adequate
rates of return. Further, the five-year period will be divided into two
tranches, the first corresponding to the time of greatest financial strain
and providing for much reduced capital spending plans, and the second allowing
for some expansion.
13.       With respect to public enterprises, the Government has established
a new Ministry of State Enterprises and Industry, which has undertaken a
preliminary review to identify their problems and prospects. At Government
request, a Bank mission visited Togo in March/April 1981 to advise on a course
of action, including the closing of certain enterprise activities in appro-
priate circumstances.
Economic Prospects
14.       In the 1981-85 period, the outlook is for average annual real
GDP growth of about 3.5%, i.e. an increase in GDP per capita of about 1% per
annum. Growth is expected to become more evenly spread among the sectors



but still highest in the secondary sector due to expanding mining operations
and higher industrial production from existing plants. The modest improvement
in projected growth will not relieve unemployment which will be aggravated by
the number of new entrants into the labor market. The pursuit of less expan-
sionary policies is expected to lead to a substantially smaller resource gap
and higher domestic savings.
15.        In agriculture there is scope to increase the output of both food
and export crops, and growth is projected to be about 3% annually between 1981
and 1985. More resources allocated to food crops to modernize production
techniques, and the beginning of returns on IDA-supported cocoa and coffee
replanting schemes will be the main reasons for the more rapid growth in
agriculture. Investment would be concentrated on relatively high-yielding
schemes in food crops, cotton and other cash crops.
16.       The outlook for the secondary sector between 1981 and 1985 is mixed,
with growth on the order of 5%. Production and export of phosphate rock
is expected to continue to increase in response to world demand (para. 35).
Since, in addition, the Bank-supported CIMAO clinker project is expected to
approach full capacity utilization, overall output in mining is likely to
increase significantly. In manufacturing, the Government's intention to
adopt remedial policies to redress state enterprises is expected to overcome
the stagnation of this sector. Growth in construction will be modest or nil
because of financial constraints, while the energy sector will be boosted by
projects and policies to replace electricity imports by domestic production.
In the tertiary sector, the severe financial constraints facing the Government
will limit growth in the output of public services. Growth in transport and
commerce is, on the contrary, likely to quicken on the assumptions that Togo
will be better able to organize its transit trade to benefit from existing
infrastructure, and that--as in the past--the sector will continue to be
largely unaffected by Government intervention.
17.       Notwithstanding the debt rescheduling in 1981, the 1981-85 period
will demand judicious policies to balance the need to meet rising debt service
obligations with the need to maintain a minimum development effort, in particular
in 1983 when debt servicing reaches a sharp peak. Except for enclave-type
operations, there is no scope for additional borrowing on financial markets,
and even with a lower level of investment, foreign financing, especially on
concessionary terms, will be required. Government finances will be extremely
tight during the beginning of the period, requiring austerity in current
expenditure and highly selective investments. Toward the end of the period,
rising revenues from phosphates and a moderate acceleration in economic growth
will begin to ease the financial constraint, although low net capital inflows
will put pressure on the balance of payments, requiring further recourse
to balance of payments assistance. With the restoration of a sounder financial
situation, Togo's longer term development prospects remain quite promising and
there remains considerable scope to exploit the resource base of the economy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
18.       To date the Bank group has extended ten credits to Togo, amounting
to US$84.9 million, and two loans totalling US$53.0 million for the CIMAO
regional clinker project (a loan of US$3.5 million to Togo, and one of



- 5 -
US$49.5 million to CIMAO jointly and severally guaranteed by the Ivory Coast,
Ghana and Togo). Four of the credits were for highway construction and feeder
road maintenance. Another four were for agricultural projects. One was for
technical assistance to strengthen the Government's planning capacity. One
was for education. A Fourth Highway Project was approved by the Executive
Directors on May 7, 1981. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations in Togo, as well as notes on the execution of projects.
19.        In the highway sector, the Association has assisted the Government
of Togo since 1969, in the building up of an efficient maintenance service,
the upgrading of its main and more heavily trafficked roads, and the initiation
of a comprehensive transport planning and coordination system. A feeder roads
project (FY78) lays the basis for feeder road improvement and maintenance
service, although project implementation has not been progressing as smoothly
as anticipated, and parts of the project's work program are under review.
Overall, however, the projects in this sector have been implemented satis-
factorily.
20.       The objectives of the Association in agriculture are to increase
food production and farm incomes through the development of cash crops such as
cocoa, coffee and cotton. The first agricultural project (FY75) was aimed at
developing Togo's cocoa and coffee potential. It was satisfactorily completed
in 1980, and a follow-up project (FY79),has recently started. The second
agricultural project (FY76) provided financing for a rural development project
in the Maritime Region. The implementation of the project has been complicated
by adverse weather conditions and the difficulties of developing a technology
appropriate to the depleted coastal soils. The third agricultural project
(FY78) supports a five-year program to increase cotton and foodcrop production.
The project is being successfully completed, ahead of schedule. A Bank
mission visited Togo in March 1981, to examine the scope for agricultural
sector reform through a comprehensive cotton and food crop project. This
would incorporate a rural development strategy to overcome the slow growth of
output and incomes in the sector.
21.        The thrust of Bank Group lending in Togo is also to help develop
the large mining potential of the country and strengthen the institutions
and the training/education system. Togo is the host of the CIMAO project,
the largest regional industrial venture (including Togo, Ivory Coast and
Ghana) undertaken so far in West Africa. Implementation of this US$284 million
clinker project, financed by the Bank and seven other official aid agencies,
has proceeded satisfactorily, and production started in March 1980. The
phosphoric acid project being studied under the proposed credit would likely
be an enclave-type operation. It would exploit Togo's lower quality phos-
phate resources and significantly increase Togo's foreign exchange earning
capabilities.
22.        A technical assistance project (FY79), providing for the strength-
ening of the Ministry of Planning, has started. Through the financing over
a three-year period of a senior economic adviser and a senior project adviser,
the project aims to assist the Togolese Government in the formulation of
sound investment and public finance policies.



-6-
23.       Present Bank Group disbursements account for about 8% of Togo's
disbursed and outstanding public debt (including CIMAO) as of late 1980.
Service payments to the Bank Group are about 1% of total debt service and will
remain at about the same level over the medium term.
PART III - THE INDUSTRY AND MINING SECTOR
24.       The industrial sector in Togo (mining, manufacturing and construc-
tion) accounted for 20% of GDP in 1980 and employed 5% of the labor force.
The mining of phosphate rock is the largest component of the industrial
sector, responsible for about 40% of its contribution to GDP. The sector as a
whole grew at a modest average annual rate of 3.7% between 1975 and 1980,
supported largely by mining activities.
A. Manufacturing and Construction
25.       Manufacturing activities are of limited importance in the Togolese
economy. They grew at a rate of 2% p.a. between 1975 and 1980, and currently
represent only 6% of GDP. There are about 90 private enterprises in the
sector. They employ around 8,000 people who are mainly engaged in import
substitution activities--production of food, beverages, shoes and cement. The
main obstacles to the expansion of this sector are the limited size of the
domestic market and lack of management and technical skills.  The Government
adheres to open trade policies, and does not extend much protection to local
industries through quotas or tariffs. It offers, however, generous investment
incentives for local entrepreneurs, such as exemptions from import duties and
from taxes, and has recently established the National Center for the Promotion
of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (CNPPME) to assist Togolese entrepreneurs
gradually to move into industrial activities. It has also created two
development banks, the Societe Nationale d'Investissements (SNI) and the
Banque Togolaise de Developpement (BTD), but these have had relatively few
development activities until now, due principally to the limited number of
viable projects and to their own insufficient project preparation capabilities.
26.       The construction industry in Togo accounted for 5% of GDP in 1980,
and employed about 4,000 workers. Activities and value added in this sector
doubled between 1975 and 1978, the peak of the construction period for
projects included in the 1976-80 Development Plan, but declined sharply
thereafter as investments slowed down. Presently about three-fourths of
public works are carried out by foreign contractors, the remainder being
executed by domestic enterprises subcontracting work from foreign firms. The
development of Togo's domestic construction industry has been slow, mainly
because local small scale contractors have insufficient access to financing
and lack adequate equipment and working capital. Their technical and financial
management also needs strengthening.
B. Public Investments in Industry
27.       The large increase in Togo's foreign exchange revenues that followed
the 1974/75 tripling of phosphate rock prices prompted the Government to



- 7 -
conceive the 1976-80 Plan with ambitious public investment programs. About
40% of the investments, or US$550 million, under the Plan were made in industry.
They have produced mixed results as about two-thirds of the investments
concerned uneconomic or marginally justifiable projects. Among these are an
oil refinery with an annual capacity of 1 million tons of refined products;
a steel mill with an annual capacity of 20,000 tons of reinforced iron rods;
three thermal generating plants with a combined capacity of about 100 MW;
and a textile factory and other investments in tourism and infrastructure.
28.       The more successful industrial investments include the construction
of additional production capacity at OTP and the CIMAO clinker project
financed by the Bank (Loan No. 1295-WAF) aimed at exploiting the Togolese
limestone deposits at Tabligbo. CIMAO is owned and operated by Togo, Ivory
Coast and Ghana and--with an annual capacity of 1.2 million tons--is intended
to supply clinker to the cement plants of these three countries. Annual
future foreign exchange earnings from exports of clinker are estimated
at around US$60 million, and CIMAO will undoubtedly help diversify Togo's
exports while replacing imports of clinker. This complex industrial project,
involving substantial infrastructure, was implemented with only a small
cost overrun and a delay of 8 months over the appraisal schedule. Started up
in early 1980, it has produced at a rate of about 50% of capacity during the
first 12 months of operation, which is not unusual during the start-up period
of a plant of this type. If CIMAO's operations develop satisfactorily, a
second line could be constructed in the mid-1980s to adapt capacity to the
demand of the three countries.
C. The World Phosphate Industry
29.       Phosphorus is one of the three main plant nutrients--nitrogen,
phosphorus and potash--used extensively to increase agricultural production.
Phosphate fertilizers are derived almost entirely from phosphate rock and
about 90% of all phosphate rock produced is converted into phosphate fertil-
izers. The remaining 10% of phosphate rock goes into other phosphate chemicals
such as detergents, insecticides and animal feeds. The paragraphs below
discuss the world production, consumption and trade patterns for phosphate
rock and phosphate intermediates and fertilizers.
Phosphate Rock
30.       In 1980, world phosphate rock production was about 135 million
tons, with three major countries--the USA (54.0 million tons), the USSR
(25.5 million tons), and Morocco (19.4 million tons)--accounting for about
73% of world production. About 84 million tons of rock were consumed locally
while 51 million tons, or 38% of total production, were exported. It is
estimated that in 1980, the two major exporters, Morocco (16.9 million tons)
and the USA (14.7 million tons) together accounted for 60% of world phosphate
rock exports. They were followed by the USSR, Jordan, Togo and other small
producers. Total world demand for phosphate rock is expected to increase at
4.5% p.a. over the next decade, but with economics increasingly favoring
location of phosphate fertilizer production facilities close to rock production,
world trade of rock is expected to grow at a slower rate of about 3.0% p.a.
(para. 35).



- 8 -
Phosphoric Acid and Phosphate Fertilizer
31.       About 70% of phosphate fertilizers are produced in the form of
concentrated fertilizers such as triple superphosphate or diammonium phosphate.
Phosphoric acid is the key intermediate product in the manufacture of these
fertilizers. In 1980, world phosphoric acid installed capacity was 28 million
nutrient tons and production in that year was 20 million nutrient tons or
about 70% of installed capacity. Of this, 2.1 million tons were exported
directly as phosphoric acid, with the USA (0.7 million tons), South Africa
(0.4 million tons) and Morocco (0.3 million tons) together accounting
for about 70% of the world phosphoric acid exports. About 3.4 million tons
of acid were also exported in the form of diammonium phosphate and triple
superphosphate.
32.       Finished phosphate fertilizers are used mainly in the industrialized
countries of Europe, North America and Oceania, which together account for 83%
of world consumption. The growth of world phosphate fertilizer demand, which
averaged 6.2% p.a. over the last 20 years, is expected to average about 4.5%
p.a. over the next 10 years. There will be relatively little growth in
industrialized countries where phosphate utilization levels are already high,
but high growth rates are likely in South America, Asia and East Europe. The
table below indicates that planned increases in capacity will be sufficient to
satisfy demand until 1985.
Projected World Phosphate Fertilizer Supply/Demand Balance 1980-1990
(in million tons of P205)
1979/80   1980/81   1982/83   1984/85   1986/87   1989/90
Supply           32.5       34.1       38.2      40.9      40.9a/      40.9a/
Demand           31.4       33.3       36.9       39.9     43.6        48.8
Balance           1.1        0.8        1.3        1.0     (2.7)       (7.9)
a/ On the basis of planned projects only.
33.       Beyond 1985 however, demand for phosphate fertilizers is expected to
increase steadily and reach 48.8 million nutrient tons by 1990 and there will
be a supply shortage unless new capacity is added. In the strengthening
market that will ensue, prices--which began to increase rapidly after 1973--are
likely to increase further in real terms. Although there is time to build
additional plants in the early 1980s to avoid any shortfall, the margin is
narrow. In fact, for some phosphate intermediates and final products (notably
phosphoric acid and diammonium phosphate) shortages are expected to develop
within the next year or two. After 1984, about 1.5 million tpy of additional
P205 capacity will be required each year to meet demand. This annual increase
in capacity is about five times the capacity of the facilities likely to
materialize in Togo if the results of the proposed project are positive.



-9-
Changing Phosphate Trade Patterns
34.       During the past 20 years or so, the proportionate share of production
of different phosphate products has changed significantly. There has been a
steady decline in the relative share of simple low-concentrate products (such
as basic slag and single superphosphate), with a corresponding growth in
production of phosphoric acid-based concentrated products. Phosphoric acid-
based fertilizers comprised about 70% of total phosphate supply in 1980 as
compared with 11% in 1956. In the future, most new phosphate production is
likely to be based on phosphoric acid, and about 80% of the increase in
phosphate consumption between 1979/80 and 1989/90 will be derived from phos-
phoric acid. Low-concentrate products will show relatively small increases.
35.       Until a few years ago, phosphate fertilizer trade originated almost
entirely from producers in industrialized countries which, with the exception
of the USA, imported phosphate rock at relatively low prices and processed it
into phosphoric acid and finished fertilizers. Following rapid increases in
phosphate rock prices and freight rates, and the introduction of new technology
improvements which make possible the economical processing of low-grade rock
near the rock beneficiation plant, it is now however increasingly difficult
for importers of rock to produce phosphoric acid that can compete with acid
produced in vertically integrated operations near the mines. Accordingly,
most new plants, particularly export-oriented facilities, are likely to be
built near phosphate mines. As a result, demand in the export markets for
phosphoric acid and processed phosphate fertilizers is expected to increase
at a much higher rate over the next decade than that for rock exports
(7% vs. 3% p.a.). Industry sources forecast that by 1984 phosphate inter-
mediates will comprise about 33% of the total phosphate trade as compared to
8% in 1967 and 25% in 1979.
36.       After 1985, in addition to those presently planned, approximately
five phosphoric acid plants will be required to come on stream every year to
meet forecast demand. Most of these plants will be built in countries with
phosphate rock reserves, with Morocco and the USA undoubtedly playing a
leading role in helping the world to meet its phosphate requirements.
Additional supplies will nevertheless be required from other sources.
Mining and Phosphate Industry in Togo
37.       Togo has known phosphate reserves equivalent to about 100 million
tons of concentrate of which about 80 million tons consist of high-grade
premium phosphate rock. The mining of this high-grade phosphate rock began
in 1961 with the opening of a mine of installed capacity equivalent to
750,000 tpy of concentrates. Capacity was increased to 1.5 million tpy in
the 1960s and to 2.5 million tpy in the early 1970s; it now stands at
3.3 million tpy. Production in 1980 reached 2.9 million tons (about 2% of
world rock production and 5% of world exports), 70% of which was exported to
Western Europe, principally France and the Netherlands, 20% to Eastern Europe,
and 10% to South America and Asia. These sales of phosphate rock are the
principal source of Togo's foreign exchange earnings, accounting for about
39% of its export revenues in 1979/80.



- 10 -
38.       The Companie Togolaise des Mines du Benin (CTMB), which was orig-
inally in charge of mining and concentrating the phosphate rock, and the
Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP), which was in charge of marketing the
phosphate, were merged in 1979 into one single company, also called OTP. OTP
has currently about 2,200 staff, of whom 98% are Togolese. Its organization
includes a production department in charge of rock mining and beneficiation
operations, an administration and finance department, and a marketing depart-
ment. OTP's management is experienced and competent, and mining, processing
and marketing operations are highly successful.
39.       OTP assets totalled US$152.6 million in 1980, and it had a long-term
debt to equity ratio of 62/38 in that year. The Government owns 100% of OTP's
share capital. Up to the merger of CTMB and OTP, actual revenues from phosphate
rock sales were collected by the Government which in turn paid CTMB on the
basis of a fixed price per ton of phosphate exported. In 1979, this transfer
price between CTMB and the Government was set at CFAF 3,500 per ton (US$16.7),
well below the rock selling price of approximately US$36 per ton FOB Lome, and
CTMB internally generated cash of US$8.1 million was just sufficient to cover
debt service (US$8.0 million) in that year. Following the merger of CTMB and
OTP, this transfer price system was abolished, and the Government now levies a
budget contribution directly from OTP revenues. These levies amounted to
about US$70 million in 1980. This, coupled with delayed payments on sales,
led to a serious liquidity problem that year. As a result, OTP had recourse
to bank overdrafts to meet its debt service obligations, thus showing a
current ratio of 0.7 at the end of 1980. This, however, does not properly
reflect the competence of OTP's management and the soundness of its operations.
Indeed, Togo sells, at a premium, one of the highest grade phosphate rock
while OTP's production costs are among the lowest in the world. The Government
has agreed to limit its levies on OTP's revenues so that OTP would maintain an
adequate debt service coverage ratio (para. 56).
40.        For phosphoric acid manufacture, it is proposed to exploit the
20 million tons of lower grade rock reserves together with recovered phosphate
slimes from the existing rock beneficiation plant. In addition, newly dis-
covered additional reserves of low-grade rock are also likely to be suitable
for phosphoric acid manufacture and could over the longer term support erec-
tion of a second phosphoric acid plant. Togo thus appears well placed to
export on a long-term basis phosphate intermediates and fertilizers produced
from lower grade rock and slimes, while continuing to export high-grade rock
from its existing mining operations.
41.        Phosphate fertilizer consumption in Togo stood at 500 nutrient tons
in 1979, down from the 1976 level of 1,200 nutrient tons. Togo's usage of
fertilizer is one of the lowest in Africa, with a combined application rate of
about 1 kg per hectare of agriculture area for all three nutrients (0.3 kg per
hectare for P205). Apart from a small quantity of ground phosphate, all
fertilizers are imported, and the establishment of local production of
finished phosphate fertilizer in Togo would most certainly stimulate increased
fertilizer use and help raise farmers' productivity.
42.       An economically-sized phosphate fertilizer project in Togo, which
would be almost entirely export-oriented, would typically produce about
330,000 nutrient tpy, (a significant part as phosphoric acid and the remainder
as finished fertilizer such as triple superphosphate). Recent reviews of the



- 11 -
phosphoric acid market through the 1980s indicate that the world situation is
likely to become increasingly tight. This is in particular the case for Brazil
and other South American countries with a projected deficit of about 800,000
nutrient tons of phosphate fertilizers by 1985. Togo would have a competitive
advantage to supply this market, being the nearest major source of processed
phosphates. In addition to South America, the East and South Asian regions,
which lack local phosphate resources, could also become attractive markets
for a phosphate fertilizer complex based in Togo involving production of
phosphate rock, phosphoric acid and finished fertilizer products.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
43.       The first serious interest in a phosphate fertilizer project in
Togo was in 1974 when two international engineering companies from Belgium and
France presented the Government with a preliminary proposal to build a phos-
phate fertilizer plant in Togo. The Government subsequently asked a French
consortium of consultants to undertake a project feasibility study and review
the offers. They submitted their report in January 1977. In 1977 and 1978,
several other proposals were presented by various engineering consortia but
no satisfactory basis was established for initiating a project.
44.       In November 1978, the President of Togo indicated that he would
welcome Bank participation in the project and a fact-finding mission visited
Togo in December 1978 to review the information available. It established
that previous project proposals were sub-optimal because they were based on
the processing of high-grade rock which commands a premium on the export
market, and it suggested that the project should be based on lower grade rock
to be economically justified. Subsequently, Bank consultants visited Togo in
July 1979, to study the geological and mining data available at OTP, and
recommended that the feed material for the project be taken from a new area,
Dagbati, with deposits of lower quality. Although rock in these deposits has
a phosphate content comparable with that of the rock now exported by Morocco
and other suppliers, it contains a substantial amount of impurities which
would make it less acceptable for export sales. It was further recommended
that about 200,000 tpy of the low-grade phosphate slimes now recovered
from existing rock beneficiation operations also be used as feedstock for the
project. The combined use of the Dagbati rock and recovered slimes to
manufacture phosphoric acid for an expanding export market was considered to
offer Togo the most economically attractive use of its low-grade phosphate
resources.
45.       In November 1979, the Government initiated in consultation with the
Bank a program of additional studies, and further geological and engineering
work was carried out by OTP to establish the project's main parameters.
These preliminary studies, financed under the Technical Assistance Credit
(Credit No. 930-TO), indicated that there are adequate phosphate rock reserves
at Dagbati to support a commercial-size phosphoric acid and phosphate fertil-
izer project (Map IBRD 15657). Such a project would include a one million tpy
rock beneficiation plant, a 330,000 tpy phosphoric acid plant, with partial
conversion of the acid into triple superphosphate, and its cost including
infrastructure was estimated at about US$500 million. Given the large size



- 12 -
of the investment envisaged and the reasonable prospects that an economically
justified phosphate fertilizer project would emerge, the Government has
decided to proceed with a detailed feasibility study to resolve outstanding
technical, market/marketing and economic issues, undertake basic design and
engineering, and determine the best project implementation arrangements. It
has confirmed its intention to ask for Bank Group assistance for the financing
of the phosphate fertilizer project, and requested IDA assistance for the
financing of the preparatory work under the proposed Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project. The project was appraised in February 1981. Credit
negotiations were held May 11-13, 1981, with a Togolese delegation led by
Ambassador Y. Grunitzky. There is no separate appraisal report for this
project. Supplemental data are contained in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The main objectives of the project are to determine the technical
and economic viability of a phosphate fertilizer project in Togo for the
manufacture and export of phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers from the
Dagbati rock and recovered slimes. The project would include the following
major items:
(a) Detailed evaluation of the phosphate deposits at Dagbati which
appear to be of adequate quality and quantity to support a phos-
phate fertilizer project. Further geological work would be carried
out to define more precisely the reserves in these deposits, develop
a mining plan and assess mining equipment requirements. Experi-
.mental work would be carried out to establish the optimal bene-
ficiation process for this rock;
(b) Laboratory and pilot plant tests on Dagbati rock and on phos-
phate slimes recovered from the existing rock beneficiation plant,
and determination of optimum processing conditions for the manu-
facture of phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers;
(c) Further evaluation of other potential phosphate rock reserves
in Togo;
(d) Estimation of investment and operating costs of the full-scale
mining and processing operations taking into account location
and infrastructural requirements such as fresh water, railways
and port facilities;
(e) Market analysis, marketing strategy and shipping arrangement
studies to determine prospects and economics of exporting phos-
phate fertilizer products;
(f) Preparation of a feasibility report based on the above studies
including determination of optimal project scope; and
(g) If the feasibility report confirms the technical and economic
viability of a phosphate fertilizer project in Togo, prepar-
ation of basic engineering and contract documents, and study of
project organization.



- 13 -
47.       Detailed terms of reference for the works to be carried out under
the project are given in Annex IV. The project would be executed in two
phases to ensure that the costlier parts of the work are carried out only
after studies of the first phase confirm the technical and economic viability
of the full project. The second phase would include preparation of preliminary
basic design and engineering work to enable the estimation of capital and
operating costs for the final project with sufficient accuracy to permit
subsequent investment decisions.
Phase I
48.       Rock Tests.  Preliminary screening tests and comprehensive tests on
the physical and chemical properties of the Dagbati rock would be carried out
by several international laboratories. Feed materials for the preliminary
tests would include recovered phosphate slimes from existing rock beneficiation
operations, and the tests would determine the most promising feed material
mixtures and conditions for the comprehensive pilot plant tests which would
follow. Concurrently, tests would also be carried out to determine the
optimal beneficiation process for the Dagbati rock.
49.       Mining Studies.  It has been established that there are sufficient
reserves at Dagbati (20 million tons of concentrate) to justify a commercial-
size phosphate fertilizer project. Further work is required to (i) estab-
lish a mining plan; (ii) estimate mining equipment requirements and rock
transport facilities; and (iii) estimate overall investment and production
costs for the mining, transport and beneficiation of the Dagbati rock.
50.       Preliminary Technical and Economic Viability.  The economic attrac-
tiveness of the phosphate fertilizer project based on the Dagbati rock and
recovered slimes would be assessed in relation to that of directly exporting
the rock. The optimum size and product mix of the project would be determined.
Preliminary design criteria would also be established for the manufacture of
phosphoric acid, and main offsite facilities and infrastructure requirements
would be evaluated, including those for utilities and effluent disposal. An
interim report would be prepared to assess the results of Phase I, and recom-
mendations made for any additional studies or experimental work as required.
Phase II
51.       Phase II would only be executed if Phase I has confirmed a poten-
tially economic phosphate fertilizer project. The following studies would
be executed:
52.       Infrastructure.  Consultants would determine the optimum  location
for the phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizer plants, as well as railway
transport and port facility requirements. For each location, needs and
supplies for fresh water and power requirements, as well as the environ-
mental impact of effluent disposals of gypsum and fluorine compounds, would
be investigated.
53.       Market Study.  Although general market information is available, it
would be reviewed in light of the specific project proposal. A specialized
consultant would, therefore, review world markets, identify potential markets



- 14 -
for the project, and define a marketing strategy for the export of phosphoric
acid and phosphate fertilizers. The consultant would also review the current
world sulphur situation and recommend the most promising sources of sulphur
for the project. In addition, alternative organizational arrangements for
shipping phosphoric acid, which requires specialized vessels, would be reviewed.
54.       Further Evaluation of Potential Deposits.  Equipment would be
purchased to undertake geological surveys and core drillings, and analytical
tests would be conducted to assess the quality and quantity of potential
phosphate reserves adjoining Togo's main deposits to help detennine the
long-term strategy for the sector.
55.       Basic Engineering, Financial/Economic Analysis, and Feasibility
Study. On the basis of preliminary basic design and engineering, consultants
would prepare detailed capital cost estimates for the phosphate fertilizer
project including those for the mine, infrastructure and utility facilities,
and processing plants. They would also develop estimates of operating costs
for the project and execute detailed economic and financial analyses. Finally,
they would propose arrangements for project execution including appropriate
organizational arrangements and time schedule for main project activities, and
subsequently assist in the initiation of project implementation. This would
include preparation of contract documents, prequalification of bidders,
evaluation of bids, and recommendations for awarding of contracts for the
phosphate fertilizer project; the Government and OTP, however, have agreed to
consult with the Association before initiating these activities (Section
2.02 (e) (iii) of the draft Project Agreement). The consultants would prepare a
full Feasibility Report that could be used for discussions with financing
sources that may be interested in participating in the phosphate fertilizer
project.
Project Cost and Financing
56.       Detailed cost estimates for the project were prepared by OTP and
reviewed by the Association in light of its experience with similar projects
elsewhere. The total financing required for the project is estimated at
US$8.9 million (exclusive of taxes from which the project is exempt) of which
US$5.8 million represents the foreign exchange costs. Phase I is estimated to
cost US$2.3 million, Phase II US$5.6 million, and interest charges during
project implementation US$1.0 million. These estimates include 10% for
physical and 15% for price contingencies on the basis of annual inflation
rates of 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982 and 7.5% in 1983. The proposed Credit of
US$5.7 million would cover the estimated foreign exchange component of the
project (excluding the foreign component of interest during implementation,
estimated at US$0.1 million). OTP would finance the remaining costs of
US$3.2 million. Proceeds from the Credit would be on-lent by the Government
to OTP in SDRs for 10 years including 3 years of grace at 11% interest, as
enunciated in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and OTP. The
Government has agreed to limit its levies on OTP's revenues (para. 39) so that
OTP would maintain a 1.3 debt service coverage ratio (Section 4.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government has also agreed to cover
any shortfall in project financing.



- 15 -
57.        To help assure prompt initiation of the project, up to US$700,000
would be provided to help finance costs incurred after March 1, 1981, for
contracting technical advisory services and starting the tests and studies
mentioned in paras. 48 and 49 above. These costs would be financed under an
advance from the Project Preparation Facility, approved in March 1981, and
would be refinanced from the proposed Credit (Section 2.02(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
58.        An estimated 285 man-months of foreign consultants and 75 man-
months of local staff will be required for project execution. The average
cost of foreign engineering and technical consultancy services, including per-
diem and reimbursable costs, is estimated at US$10,000 per man-month; the
average cost of local personnel and operators is estimated at about US$4,000
per man-month. The cost of consultants is considered reasonable in light of
the specialized work to be undertaken.
Project Execution
59.        The project would be executed by OTP in accordance with the terms
of a Project Agreement between OTP and the Association. As mentioned, OTP is
an experienced and well-run mining company with qualified executives in key
senior positions.  OTP has decided to create a Project Unit to supervise
project implementation and has designated the project manager. Formal
creation of the Project Unit and appointment of the project manager and a
mining and beneficiation engineer with qualifications acceptable to the
Association are conditions of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, OTP has agreed that the
Project Unit would be staffed with an economist and financial analyst and a
chemical engineer with qualifications acceptable to the Association no later
than March 31, 1982 (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Project Agreement) two
months before scheduled start of Phase II of the project (para. 61). The
proposed organizational arrangements for the execution of the project are
shown in Annex V.
60.        To assist OTP in carrying out the project, specialized consultants
have been contracted in consultation with the Association to provide technical
advisory services for studies that concern rock mining and phosphoric acid
manufacture. In addition to assisting OTP to execute Phase I of the proposed
project, their services would include (i) drafting the terms of reference and
the selection of consultants for the tests and studies to be undertaken in
Phase II, (ii) supervision of their work; and (iii) reviewing the conclusions
of such tests and studies. In addition to the services of a specialized
consulting firm that would study the project market and marketing aspects,
the services of an engineering firm would be required for the execution of
Phase II of the project. OTP has agreed that the appointment of the market
consultants would be finalized before June 30, 1982, (Section 2.02(b) of the
draft Project Agreement). Appointment of the engineering firm would be a
condition of disbursements for Phase II (para. 4(b)(ii) of Schedule I of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Also, disbursements for Phase II of the
project would only commence if the results of Phase I justify proceeding
further (para. 4(b)(i) of Schedule I of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.        It is expected that Phase I of the feasibility study, with preliminary
rock tests initiated in January 1981, would be completed in about 16 months and
that OTP would prepare its report presenting the technical and economic justifi-
cation of the project by May 1982. Proposals for the consulting jobs of
Phase II are expected to be invited in December 1981, and selection of the



- 16 -
market consultants and the engineering firm finalized by June 1982. It is
expected that Phase II would be completed in 10 months, with the Feasibility
Report submitted by April 1983. The implementation schedule for the various
components of the project is given in Annex VI.
62.       After completion of the feasibility study included in Phase II and
before taking a decision to proceed with the phosphate fertilizer project, the
Government and OTP would afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views on the full project implementation and financing (Sections 3.02
of the Draft Development Credit Agreement and 2.02(e)(iii) of the Draft
Project Agreement).
Selection of Consultants, Procurement and Disbursement
63.       The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
of the consultants for the market study would need to be acceptable to the
Association (Section 2.02(a)(i) of the draft Project Agreement). The selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of the
engineering firm that would execute Phase II of the project would also have to
be acceptable to the Association (Section 2.02(a)(ii) of the draft Project
Agreement). The equipment financed by the Credit for the evaluation of other
potential deposits (para. 54) is estimated to total US$500,000 and would be
procured after international competitive bidding, except for a limited amount
of small items (costing less than US$50,000 individually and together totalling
less than US$250,000) which would be procured on the basis of price quotations
from at least three qualified suppliers. Disbursements of the proposed Credit
would be made against 100% of the foreign exchange expenditures for services,
and against 100% of the foreign expenditures (and if purchased locally, 90% of
local expenditures) for equipment eligible for IDA financing.
Benefits and Risks
64.       On the basis of Bank Group experience with similar projects in other
producing countries, there are strong grounds to believe that an economic
phosphate fertilizer project can be developed in Togo. Emerging production
and trade patterns favor projects such as the one envisaged to produce inter-
mediates and finished phosphate fertilizers near the mine head. In addition,
there are some specific advantages for Togo which make the project look
particularly attractive. OTP is already among the lowest-cost phosphate
rock producers in the world. Conditions for mining the Dagbati deposits
should be similar to those encountered for deposits now under production, and
favorable production costs should also prevail for the new mine. The deposits
are well situated with regard to rail and port facilities, and the new
infrastructural requirements for the project are expected to be well below
those for most other new phosphate fertilizer projects. In addition, Togo is
well located to supply major growing phosphate markets, particularly South
America, for which Togo would be the nearest major source of processed
phosphate fertilizers. As it would be able to offer both high-grade rock and
processed phosphates, Togo's marketing operations would also benefit from
increased flexibility and easier market penetration. Finally, the project
would greatly assist in increasing Togo's revenues from its phosphate resources.
It would ensure that lower grade rocks and low-value slimes are upgraded and
exported as phosphoric acid and finished fertilizers, without affecting sales
of high-grade premium rock. This would properly orient the rational, long-term
development of the sector.



- 17 -
65.       A phosphate fertilizer project would make a significant contribution
to Togo's balance of payments with anticipated annual gross revenues of about
US$200 million in 1981 terms. The proposed Engineering and Technical Assis-
tance Project would help ensure that the estimated UJS$500 million phosphate
fertilizer project--probably the most important investment ever planned by
Togo--is properly prepared and executed. Although the Togo phosphate fertil-
izer project would be highly capital-intensive and would create only about
1,500 direct new jobs, a substantial work force would be required during
construction. Also, more job opportunities would be created as the project
stimulates additional investments in the area. In addition, current fertilizer
use in Togo is low, and the availability of domestically produced phosphate
fertilizer is likely to stimulate increased fertilizer consumption and help
raise farmers' productivity.
66.       The major risk facing the project is that, if the feasibility
study were to conclude that the final project is not technically and eco-
nomically viable, the investments made in the feasibility study would not be
recovered (apart from those concerning the evaluation of Togo's other potential
phosphate deposits). This risk has been minimized by initiating the study
only after substantial core drilling and rock processing tests have been
completed, and economically-sized phosphate deposits have been proven at
Dagbati.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Togo
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Office Togolais
des Phosphates and the Association, and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
68.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement and draft
Project Agreement are referred to in the text and listed in Annex III.
Special conditions of disbursement for Phase II of the project would be
(i) agreement between the Association, the Government and OTP that the results
of Phase I confirm the technical and economic viability of the phosphate
fertilizer project (para. 60); and (ii) appointment of an engineering firm
acceptable to the Association to execute Phase II of the proposed project
(para. 60). Special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be the signing
of the subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and OTP with terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association (para. 56) and the establishment and
satisfactory staffing of a Project Unit within OTP (para. 59).



- 18 -
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 4, 1981



- 19 -                                    ANNEXI
Pase 1
TABLE 3A
TOGO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TOGO                          REFERENCE GROUOS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Kt.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             56.0
AGRICULTURAL      24.0                                MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Ab   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  80.0       160.0     340.0                260.0                   868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     23.0         67.0      96.0                 80.0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      1.5         2.0       2.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 9.8         13.1      16.5                 17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      4.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       12.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2135
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EM.                       27.0       36.0       43.0                 27.4                    61. 7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     64.0        83.0      96.0                 82.6                   126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.4        45.0      46.0                 44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                        53.0        52.4      51.3                 52.2                    52.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6        2.6       2.7                  2.8                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.7       2.7                  2.7                     2.7
URBAN                              5.5         5.6       5.7                  6.8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.0         49.0      50.0                 47.4                    46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0         22.0      19.0                 19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5         3.3       3.3                  3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         99.0       101.0      83.0                 91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  93.0        95.0      90.0                 90. 2                   92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         44.0        46.0       48.0                53.0                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       11.0        12.0      13.0                 18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     41.0        32.0      27.0                27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0         42.0      46.0                 45.3                   50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         177.0          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         17.0      16.0                 23.2                    31. 0
URBAN                              ..          ..      49.0                 58.0                    66.8
RURAL                              ..          5.0      10.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          1.0      15.0                28.9
URBAN                              ..         4.0      36.0                 67.0
RURAL                              ..          1.0     12.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        35130.Ojc   27940.0   18360.0              30910.4                 14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    5341.0jc    4170.0   2040.0                5793.2                  3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            598.Ojc    651.Ojd   705.0                1198.9                  1161.5
URBAN                            111.O/c    125.0/d
RURAL                           1166.0jc    1781.0jd
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        24.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..       5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         5.8
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 20 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
TOGO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TOGO                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRES
- MOST RECENT ESTMATE) M
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOGF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLIMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 44.0        72.0      106.0                 57. 7                    61. 7
MALE                 63.0        100.0     135.0                  74.2                     69.2
FIMALE               24.0         44.0      78.0                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0         7.0       27.0                 10.0                     20.6
MALE                  4.0         11.0      41.0                  13.7                     29.2
PIMALE                1.0          3.0      12.0                   7.1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  10.0/e       10.0        8.0                  6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            63.0        58.0      61.0                  45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                            ..        25.0      38.0                  25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        10. 0c      12.0       18.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0. 3        4.0       6.0                   3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.0        23.0      23.0                  31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..       0.7                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0         7.0        3.2                  4.6                     24.2
CINEKA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2           ..        1. 0                  ..                      0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       689.0       870.2    1016.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.2        42. 1     41.0                  33.5                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              79.5        73. 3      69.0                 80. 7                    54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.1        10.9      14.0                   8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.4        43.8       42.4                 42.2                     38.8
MALE                                 56.1        52.2       50.9                 55.1                     48.4
FEfALE                               35.4        35.9       34.3                 29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1. 1       1.1                  1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCaKE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     243.0                 138.2
RURAL                               ..           ..      118.0                 86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      121.0                107.0
RURAL                               ..           ..      121.0                 65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      42.0
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
mong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962;  /d Government hospital establishments;  L Including teacher training.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 21 -                                                                         ANNX I
Pane 3
DIPrNITIOIIS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the date or  dree  from  s.urc.s gor-         y jdged the mas   sthoottativ  sod reliable, it should also be noted tho  tbsp say net be totr-
nationaly compenhls because of th. lack of standardised dof.tmittn   end co--ept  used by differet coutries inoletn   tbe dais.  The data are,noe
the1mes, ..eetul to dec.rbe erdera of magnitude, ledicate trende, and ch-cacorto  cortomjor diff .re...e betoe.                    conrin
The refrec  groupsare (1) ibeh _          country grouP of the subit country and (2) a country group  itb  enmeht bigbhr avrgeicmeoo  the coutry group
of the sbjet  onty(et _fo  'Capa  Surplus Oil inporoses' group where  'Middle I-oos  Nooch Africa an  Middl  tet   scoenbcueo  atIrngr
seaie-cltucslaffiniies).   I  the cferenc  group date the average  er -pynut=   osightederteic un   foreahidctrudsenolyhna
lerhalfo  the conre   oagru   a   esfr   than  edictr                      ic  the  esrg  of c           iee a-ong the indicetoro deperde cc the avilability o
data and is tot unifur, cation sea  be eoarcised to relati.g  -trges of on  indicator to ano.ther.  These.. erergne era only use ful in  tnpa .n  -1-vlu
of one indi-nto   ra  s tine     ng the country ta  caferenc  grupe..
LAND AREA (thunsad sq.k..)                                                                      opatineoPsisa-fpuleItion dividod by cano   on  raiacng phy-
Total - Total  sursce. ares comprising land a-s. ad inland eaters.                             sici_     ulfied fro   a  "edlol  chevi an univerity leve.
Aari-tcuvra1 - tetisate of ngricl1tura1 ama. und tamporurily or pormnetly                    Prulatie   Per tO.reIna Pere-  - Population divided by nuber of pracioing
for crops, pastoree, market and kitcbnc garden  or cc lie fellow; 197? data,                sae  n  female grsdete   ams  practical curses,. codussnnren
Inp Mlatio   Hn ooevita   d-  otl  urban  end rual- Pop.leti-  (total.
GNfP PER CAPIT II U  )) - GNIP per ca pits  _siates at curomrhet prices, -e1-                    echo, andi rural  divided by tho.ir r-pnctive nbeof hospital bode
colured by sam   iover-i"   cubod aa World hank Atlus (1977-79 basis); 1960,                   avilable inpblic and private general and epeciulised hospital and in-
1970,ad  iSSde.-                                                                              habilitaton--: cetr . nopitsla era en-blih-aets permnetly staffed
by at i tt oe  hyican.  tEtubliebhente pooviding proncipelly ruetdta1
infRf iS505PIon   it CPITA- Annul cnapinof cu-riatonergy  (coal                         cueoeno           lded.  tra-I hopital. hoee,include health  ed medial
and ligoiti.pcoe, naua  gnod bydr                       ...uc . u.dgoheralalc                  cantors no eraetly stffed by aphysician  (but bp a andicu  asiet
cricicy)  .cAlgaao   oe              tantprcapt;16,170.n   96tre  midefe, et.) ebich offer t-petient acc-odetio  and provide 
darn.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~litmnd range of medical facilliti-.  For statistical purpon urban hospi-
tals inclde WHfO. priocipat genera  ad npectlieed hospitals, end   -1ra
POPILATIONI AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                 hoptl   oa    r.rura  hspicaoed-mdical end maerity Metera
Tora1 Population, Mid-ba  (illco            A. buo  July 1; 1960. 1970, and 1978             Amsin    r          pSsita1 Bed -Totd  number of edm.i...n to or discharges
dato.                                                                                       fro   hoa.pittlt divided by the nobr of bsde.
Iche- Ppculatc   icecceo:tof  cocal) - Ruti  of urban no totelpp1           ett
different defntoso   ra   cenmyafc   oprbiiyo   ae                                      EUIl
...ncoutclet; 1960, 1971, and 1979 do.~:-                                               Avnaa  tSi He.t..nhbd  pre.s.ns Pur huse hold  - total, urban, and oura-
Poonlotion Pruincticon                                                ~~A householdcnot fa group of individualu.   thor  lIving qoarter
..puleiloc it y-nr 2001 - Current rpul..~oot  prjctoee    na  o   90                       cd tbetr maic nn.lu.  A boardor or lodier may at may oct h ot1 tldedit
rural population by age and eon aud choi   caiyan-etility rae.                            the h-utebld for  tnetinticl1 porponee.
fro jeitonI  parnt-c f1 ornotulity rates: cmprine of three. .eve.. a..                  Averag  nubeA      fprusPer roa  - total, urban, utdrul-AvraenI-
lu   i  epcacya   ic   iocreoicguith  -outry'e par  a pica I..t                           hr  fpron  e   on  Ic  l  urban, ad   ruo locpied  -ocvtion_l
leve, ad fnl   Ieepcao  etblo                    t77.5 years.  The p-eru-              deelliogs, ronpocrvey.        ..llinge r  'donrpvmt ttoitucoen-
meenfor ferilicy rac  alo bare th.c.e level  aeuntng decline in                       unoccu pied p-rr.i"
fettility according to ioco-   -loya.ad past family planninlg performnc.                Acco..n to tlectriciiy (peren  of deellinc) - total1,ur.~ban, and ruvel 
mobh countryech,. onoign-d  ono of tbhe  tie-binatione of  -otality                       C..nvantio..al deeling  Titeecriityitlvnqattet  n                         _retoge
Ald fetiliyoed   o  projection purpes.                                                    of totol, urban, adrrldoloorpt oy
stteionar   rclin-IcatacIon..ry popolotito  thberc ing no groth  iocs
the birth cote Is oqul  tohtb  d-ath rate, and also  tha aetaructur  re-    EDUCATION
mato  n..c.ntani.  Thin In acileo  only oftc-  fartiltyostee  decline to                ndjuute;d tcrull.e.t Rtatto
ofoncrPlcsitoeimacy    The  nainneypplation siewsonolet o  al   ge t tho  rnr  levl anprstge  ofrePeciv
estimated on the basia of the  rjce  cratreceof the population                              prnr   coluo  oonlo;nrmlyicueP hIde   gd61
In the year 100, u-d the rate of decline of fertility r-to to replete-                      yea,rs ho  odiuoned for different loogthn of princy enotln; for
nent level.                                                         counor~~ies oth  oovr        ducaion onolunt ma   nce  III Percent
Yea  tcstin..ary pupulotiut in nea be hd - The mar when stticcry population                    since non ...pupilo on    lou  rubve  the official echool ego.
sire hue bean.. mahad.                                                                    Secondary ochool -total. mao andfe e- Computd as above; secondary
?poplation Dsneity                                                                               oooiorqir Itbt      for_ ene  faPprocedpimary tuatruction;
Pnr nn. ka..- Mid-your popoletion per oqure kiloenter (150 boctaren) of                         ooidetgncl vot.n.l  or tahor tra,in ing  ine.truiuofa   o
ttal. araIsal   f1 ....17 yerso   pg;cre pondec  coree  urn gnslp
Potn.  ha.                  1-iutun   ad - Coapu-d an ohov  for agiricltorul land              ec fud 1d
only.                                                                                     V ..atiomal erol         (eret o  enodoy   - .Voctiumo  inetituti..e
PPopulaion toe Structure icerc...t) - Children (0-14 years). working-ago (11-                    include tecbhial,indora,   orohcpor                     hich  Prr-t  indep..-
64 yearn)1,nod retired (65 years andoe)a  perce..cagee of nld-year popa-                       dently or on P deatets of secodary tcsitoiione.
lacion; 10,Iv7c, and_ 197  duO.                                                             Pucol-teacher ratio -pn r. ad .....tdnry - Ttal etodec-  enrolled in
Population irovh hat  (por.ten) - coral  - Onnuo  grouth braces of tota  aid-                    pesry  nod necodanyl leve   dividad by  owbern  f t-uh-t  in the
yeuc  ,popolticee icr 1950-60, 1960-701. ad 1970-78.                                           coresoning  ecel..
Pocuuttion Crouch hate (p.r-rc       - urbec -.Anulgrowhra--  of urban popo-                   Adlti lltraoytate  (prercet) - Litterot  aduln  (able tc read nod wits)
1ati_n  for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970l.anpre7aeof8e    dl pouaion aged IS y.nre andovr
Crude Birth hate (our tho...a.d) - Annual  Ive birth Per thousand of mid-yaur
pou in    91,1570, nt  1978  dte.                                             CONtSUMPTION
Crude lec  Sate  cctunad    Annua  deuthe per choausa.d of mid-yea                           Pan..snuer Ca (rev thosand peplnti.on  - P....nger cure comprise motor
popaloti; 1960, 1970, and 1978 dato.                                                         consaiglnata   ih                  onn; nnlnld-  enhl..cto, hoern... and
Cr.e. Recr-d-cciu  bin--Average nube Iof du-ghte1rna woanill beer in                           nilttrvhil
her  -ama  -pc-du-ti-e period ifab.ePeen                pretag-ecfcsr                     Radio Receiver  (cer tbcaad ool              )-All types of  -ooiver  for rad
tiyrtes;usully IIrn-yer  -vergn  ending in  9 19190,an,97.                             bracast   eea   ubi2ehhuado   oplto;ecoa    ai-
fIlflnina-A.cepiorn : nnual (taad)               .nua.ume.o.cepos                        esd r--iv-r  in  -cutrine und In years oboergistration of rsdin sen
of hrcb-ontrlUdvie   -ne   upices ofntional family planing program.                     onin ftt;da   crentpcemyotbcmaalesce at
Penily Plaaniua-Dasra( ereot of mridwmn   Porce..ntgs of maried                          coatre ablnd11cscg
unmoc of child-heaing ago (15-A4 year) who onbict-hu..irtl devic.. to                     TV haeivr   (pe  thousand poculanion) - TV reciv-c  for broadcastti
allmarid non  In  -am   gc group.                                                            geea   ulcprthousand population;. encldes uolionnnd TV roceiv-rn
FWD AND NUTRITION                                                      ~~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~in conrisad In yeare uhen registration of TV sets  -on  to effect.
tinoacr  irulctn  pe  tho-eud  cplto)- Shoun oh.eseaectoa
Inden of Pond Prodncio  e   CuIo(997-l)-lden of per capita annul                               tico . of "ail  ganrulSnesne              er,dfed 7a    eidclpub-
prduction of all food codie. prdc1necldsse  adfe 1                                         lication dev-ted prinarily to rtording genra  nes ft' is  eadl             n
Is on clen.dar year baoin.  Coomditien cuter pi_ary goods. (g. euabI...e.dty  i   naper  a   en  four timnoanoa.k.
inetnad of -ugac)  hich ace edible and  -oiaeuctec   (.. cffee and                        Ci sAnna  Atitendance per Capitanor, Year - hose.d an ohs nunhr of
nea are olluded) . Aggregt  prdcto  of eac h.counry Ia heedO                                 tickets sold doring the  -nr, Icuing adsls one to drin-inclio-e
nationol avrage producer Pric  wIgs; 1961-65, 19t70, und 1978dot.%sdmhlnuia
Percertesuly  f  aloina(crce_t of r..otren_t) - Computed from
encgeq Ivotofntod .oppliea  -valeble In coutry per .a.Pits                          LAnR FORCt
p.r day.  A-uiIablo sppite  com.prise dometic production, imports lees                  Total Llabo  Purr. (thousands) - tEonowicallyhactiveprc-              incldin
onPorca, and change  in stok.  NesppIes eacludsaimali teed, sed,                         amdfre   o   nalydbtecuighueie,ouet,ec
quatities uned in food procesig, ad icoana in ditibutio.. Rqte.eiiin    nvcoecatrr mntcmaal;16,17   n
aosreti-atd by PAr hannd on phytiolngioslneeds for  bemal                                                                                     19ti,19787dats
tinyand hoslth c...eiderinoeotrm,s taltpecture, body -eightn, age                       Pe_le (Prc.     t    F- Pe    labcr f..cro  percen.tage of total labor farc..
and 0-  distribotioc or population, -ud eIowing 10 perceno foc waste at                  siotoe(eren  - Labr form .it temn,f                    osnr hn_n   n
bh.eehod level1; 1961-65  1970, and 1977 date.                                            fiohing an porcencaga8 of ttol labor force  1960.1970 ond 1978 date.
Per capita aucclv ct protein  (areas crc day) - Protein content of pec capita  Industry (percen.t) - lbo  frce in   I        _ig  cotrutio, mafctcuring
net nupply of ford per day.  Net eop,ly of food isdfinedRa ee   On                         .ad electricity, eaerad gases. percentge  fitllbcfro.90
qoico_enn  0for nil coo..tri-n esubliehed by USiDA, proide for minimu97 o  1979 de.
a Lunn.   o f 60 gRum  of noct  protein per doy end 20 g-am  or animal and              F.arc~i;tainRtVcret       oa,mae   n                     ao-Priiaino
polun prote.In, of which 10 gram  ohoold be animal prtet.    These stand-                 activity rates urn conputad.as total, male, en  femal  labo  torf eeI
unoo  proten as ,on .vecag  7fcc the   ~I..    -tld  popan  by 3n it - teTid              per-encge  of rota, male and fenal  Popnlti_u or allsges respectively;
acrid I rood Surr,e; 1961-61F1970iand1977 data                                             1960, 1970, and 1971 dens.  Th.at are ILI' opariiainraten reflectiuo
Pen capita trotoin surrl  fro  animal and aP.       Prtein supply of food de         age-se   cutr   ttepouait   n   ogtieted                             u   si
rivod foom aninalo and pulses Ic grana per day; 1961-65,  970 am   9?   at. t pnmc  ned-ncy SRoi  - hafaf populuotn under 11 and 65 andoe
Ci dP (aeb-7Mraiytt rttosn)-A An.uel deahs per thonsand it                                  ccattllhrfre
age grop 1-4 year, cc  blhidrec in this ae9rop; for- et.developing  ou--
trcon dat  derived frun life cables; 19 60, 970 and 197  data.NCOMEs DISTRfIBUTION
Pecnusof Priaelcm   bth In ..ob  aod find) - Received by richeet
hEAlTH                                                                                           T t              '       w%                                    .r.t          r
Llf   npecta..cy  tt Dinthfcv) - Average nuben of y.c- of life remining                       1 percet, riahe-   fpret   ornt211per-n, andpors  hO p.rcen
an birth; 1960, 1970 end 1979 data.
inat  otlity hat  (Per thoosand)  - Anul deatnbe of infants under one year    POVyRTY TARGET GROUPS
oft. age pe  th-uan  lIve bttoEtimatnd Abaclute Pove rty Incm  Level (1SO Per  opct:) - urhe  and tore -
Ats ocSfeattr:eca   f  ooaio,                   ttl   oa,an   ue      .                  Abenltos poverty mose level  in that incom   ee   beo"ba                   Inia
unher' of  epe(oe, urba,adua) wit  r_aeonale.a.....etoefe                                     urtoal  adequat  diet plun netia1 nun-food requirement  is not
onccePPlY (includen trrated nurface women or unrmted hat unontainsted                    sfrda ly.
eatr acth tancht from proetd boeol                 pr.ings,ad sn tar  wels  na            SEtinetedteetv  yvy Incmelee (:150 mrI 00m       ubnad  ea
perentge  ofth Icrepercie ppuatins   lon   rhe  aea  policRual  eltiv   poety ioose leve  to. o..-third of _verag  per  a pits
footain or ,_edpoit-ouated non mre rh- 200 metera from a house may be                      perseml in-n  of the conry    rban leve  In derived from  the rnral
considered ankoo  oltin re-oble  c                 fs  c  that h..:..  In rural steen        lee   itb adjue.tne for hihr cost of living in urhu   res
reannebe aces  anld cony that the  ouelf   r  ebers ofrcA  h.unebold                 E=tatin d pplto  Ost             g.bslut  Poverty  ncm  leel(erbol-co
fanIly' nuocer oeedn.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' _ 
rua  -nmbrc  re-rl- (otso,fuban, antruvsl)served   yderron
pi Nrvi-ed  iia                         -dostslltticnsb



AMNEX I
-22                                      Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980
US$ million               Annual rate of growth (%  current prices)
1975-80
GNP at market prices                 1,052.8        99.1             11.3
GDP at market prices                 1,062.4       100.0             11.4
Gross domestic investments             272.8        25.7              9.9
Gross domestic savings                 141.9        13.3             17.5
Current account balance               -172:3       -16.2              _
Exports (G + NFS)                      384.3        36.2             22.2
Imports (G + NFS)                      536.2        50.5             17.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value added              Labor force           Value added per worker
US$ million                Thousand                  US$           I
Agriculture                            249.5        26.0        750          79.0        332.7        33.1
Industry, construction and
public works                         195.2        20.4         24          3.0       8,133.3       808.2
Government                             107.1        11.2         39          4.1      2,746.1        272.9
Commerce and transport                 322.8        33.7         67          7.0      4,817.9       478.8
Other services                          81.4-        8.7         70          6.9      1,162.8        115.6
GDP at factor costs              956.0       100.0        950        100.0      1,006.3       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CFA billion            o Of GDP
l99 l70   1975      1980
Revenue                              32.9      62.0      24.9      27.8
Tax receipts                      31.4      52.0      23.7      23.3
Other                              1.5      10.0       1.2       4.5
Expenditures                            0      66.4      26.5      29.8
Current budget                    22.6      540       17.0   - 24.2
Investment budget                  9.1       7.4       6.8       3.3
Other                              3.3       5.0       2.6       2.2
Special accounts                      0.3       -         0.2       -
Annex budgets                         0.3       1.0       0.2       o.4
Overall deficits                     -2.7      -5.4      -2.0      -2.4
Memo item :
GDP current prices                132.3    223.1    100.0    100.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES             1973      1974      1975        76      1977       1978      197980
(Billion CFAF outstanding end period)
Money and quasi money                15.9      30.5      28.2      41.2      48.1      64.9       73.8      68.7
Bank credit to public sector         -1.9      -2.5       1.4       1.2       1.9       6.2       11.2       6.4
Bank credit to private sector        13.3      16.3      24.6      32.2      44.6       51.6      57.8      59.6
(Percentage or index number)
Money and Quasi money as % of GDP    17.5      22.6      21.3      27.8      25.2       32.5      34.8       --
Consumer price index (1975   100)    75.1      84.7    100.0    111.6    136.7    137.3    147.6    155.3
Annual percentage change in
Consumer price index               -        12.7      18.0      11.6      22.4       0.2        7.5       -
Bank credit to public sector       -       -31.5       -       -14.3      58.3    326.3        80.6       -
Bank credit to private sector      -        22.5      51.3      29.7      38.4      15.6       13.3
2   As of end September 1980.



- 23 _
ANNEX I
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS                Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                        1975      1976       1977      1978       1979      1980
(U-S$ milli-on)
Exports (G * NFS)                         141.2     158.9      195.1     257.5      250.9     384.3
Imports (G + NFS)                        -242.9    -212.5    -300.4    -519.9    -524.8    -536.2
Resource gap  (deficit   -)              -101.7     -53.6    -105.3    -262.4    -273.9    -151.9
Interest payments (net)                    -1.9      -3.3       -5.7     -24.3      -29.0     -27.6
Workers' remittances                        3.3       5.4        5.3       5.3        7.1        7.1
Other factor payments (net)               -14.o      -8.4      -13.0     -13.2      -23.8     -28.6
Net transfers                              18.7      16.7       20.3      22.1       28.6      28.6
Balance on current account                -95.6     -43.2      -98.4    -272.5    -290.9    -172.4
Direct foreign investments                  4.8       6.3        8.1       8.8       10.5       9.5
Net MLT borrowing                          50.5      55.6      113.8     246.o      290.0     195.7
Capital grants                             19.1      15.0       15.0      25.7       26.2      35.7
Other capital (net)                        14.0     -16.7      -32.5       4.0      -31.4     -42.8
Other items, n.e.i.                        15.4     -15.0      -31.7       4.4      -33.3     -45.7
Change in reserves (increase   -)          -8.2      -2.0       25.6     -16.4       29.0      20.0
Net reserves (end year) j/                 38.8      58.1       33.7      50.4       28.8      51.4
Petrol imports as % total imports           -         -          9.0      11.4       11.9      23.9
Petrol exports as % total experts           -         -          -        20.6       22.0      32.2
2    Net foreign assets of the Central Bank
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (average 1975-80, recorded)
us$ million  
Phosphate                                               97.1            41.7
Cocoa beans                                             40.5            17.4
Coffee                                                  23.3            10.0
All other commodities                                   71.9            30.9
Total                                        232.8          100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31, 1980
US$ million
Public debt (disbursed) incl. guaranteed               869.6
Non-guaranteed private debt                              -
Total outstanding and disbursed                        988.o
EXCHANGE RATES (CFAF per uS$)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980  /                       Year            Period average       End of Period
%          1973                 223                  230
Public debt, incl. guaranteed           36.3         1974                 241                  222
Non-guaranteed private debt               -          1975                 214                  224
Total outstanding and disbursed          -          1976                 239                  248
1977                 246                  235
1978                 226                  209
I       Ratio of debt service to X (G - NFS)          1979                 212                  201
1980                 210                  226
1981                235                   _
IBRD/IDA LENDING,  March 31,  1981 (us$ million)
IBRD _    IDA
Outstanding and disbursed             53.0      44.8
Undisbursed                            -         39.2
Outstanding including undisbursed    53.0       84.0
%'  $53.0 million of which $3.5 million CIMAO loan
to Togo and $49.5 million loan to CIMAO with the
guarantee of Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo.



ANNEX II
Page 1
- 24
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1981)
Amount - US$ million
(less cancellations)
Bank     IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Three credits and one loan fully disbursed           3.5      18.40         0
638-TO  1976  Togo Maritime Region Rural
Development                               9.45         3.96
693-TO  1977  Togo Third Highway                           10.00         0.92
741-TO  1977  Togo Rural Development
in Cotton Areas                          13.21         4.39
810-TO  1978  Togo Feeder Roads                             5.80         2.89
930-TO  1979  Togo Technical Assistance                     2.20         2.09
945-TO  1979  Togo Cocoa/Coffee
Development II                           14.00        13.97
1018-TO  1979  Togo First Education                         11.00        11.00
Total                              3.5      84.06        39.22
of which has been repaid              0      0.11
Total now outstanding               3.5     83.95
Amount sold                           0         0
of which has been repaid              0         0
Total now held by Bank and IDA   3.5        83.95
Total undisbursed                                        39.22
B. Statement of Bank Loan Guaranteed by Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo
1295-WAF 1976 CIMAO - CIMAO Regional
Clinker                        49.5                       0
C. Statement of IDA Credit for Regional Projects - Benin, Ivory Coast,
Niger, Senegal Togo, Upper Volta.
969-WAF 1980  BOAD Project Preparation Credit               3.0          2.92
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 2
- 25 -
D. Projects in Execution *
Credit No. 638-TO Maritime Region Rural Development Project; US$9.5 million;
Credit of June 16, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The purpose of the project is to improve and diversify production of
upland crops (maize, cassava, groundnuts, cowpeas and cotton); develop lowland
rainfed rice and vegetables; rehabilitate smallholder coconut plantings; and
provide the necessary support services and infrastructure for about 20,000 farm
families. Adverse weather conditions, difficulties in developing a technology
appropriate to the depleted coastal soils and insufficient supervision of
extension works have delayed implementation of the project. Infrastructure
development has been satisfactory. A project monitoring and evaluation unit
has recently been established.
Credit No. 693-TO Third Highway Project; US$10.0 million; Credit of
April 1, 1977; Effectiveness Date: September 13, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project provides for the reconstruction of the Aneho-Tabligbo
road (45 km), the construction of the Agou-Notse road (51 km), the provision
of technical assistance for improving transport planning and road maintenance,
and preinvestment studies for a follow-up project. Implementation of the
project has been satisfactory and is by now practically complete. The
implementation of the technical assistance component has been slower than
expected.
Credit No. 741-TO Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas; US$14.0 million;
Credit of October 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project aims at increasing cotton production from 7,000 tons to
34,000 tons and foodcrops grown in rotation with cotton from 40,000 tons to
57,000 tons (maize and sorghum); and strengthening of SOTOCO, the agency in
charge of the project. The project is progressing well. Over 45,000 farmers
are now involved in the project. 22,000 tons of seed cotton were produced in
1980. The area planted to improved foodcrops was 23,000 ha. Credit repayment
by farmers has been good. 215 km of feeder roads have been constructed and
120 wells have been drilled. Extension of the project, with greater emphasis
on foodcrops is under consideration. SOTOCO financial management has improved
*    These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems and actions being taken to remedy them. They should be read
with the understanding that they do not present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
- 26 -
considerably over 1980. However, its financial situation remains unsatisfac-
tory, because of delays in the payment of the Government's contributions.
Credit No. 810-TO Feeder Roads Project; US$ 5.8 Million; Credit of June 28,
1978; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project consists of a four year program for the improvement
and maintenance of about 1,000 km of feeder roads, technical assistance to
establish a Feeder Roads Unit in charge of the program, and consultant ser-
vices to study a follow-up feeder roads program. The equipment provided to
the Feeder Roads Unit is now fully operational, while efforts are being made
to ensure that future work programs adhere more closely to what has been
foreseen under the project. Implementation of the project has suffered from
serious institutional difficulties, but the Government has recently agreed to
undertake corrective measures.
Credit No. 930-TO Technical Assistance Project; US$2.2 million;
Credit of June 22, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 23,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project provides for two advisers in the Ministry of Planning
for a three year period each and for short term consultants to carry out
specific project related and macroeconomic studies. The first adviser is
expected to counsel on general economic and public finance questions, while
the second adviser is expected to assist in selecting major new investments
and in finding ways of improving existing large projects. The first adviser
has served for over a year. The search for the second adviser is drawing to a
close with a suitable candidate expected to be appointed shortly.
Credit No. 945-TO Second Cocoa and Coffee Development Project; US$14.0 million
Credit of July 23, 1979; Effectivenes Date: July 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project is a continuation of the first Coffee-Cocoa project. It
provides for the planting and maintenance of a further 7,500 ha of coffee and
4,000 ha of cocoa by 17,000 smallholder farmers, marketing, storage and extension
services, applied research, associated foodcrop development, and construction of
300 km of feeder roads. Coffee planting for 1981 is expected to be ahead of
target. The cocoa program has been delayed by an outbreak of capsid disease,
and by land tenure problems.



ANNEX II
Page 4
- 27 -
Credit No. 969-WAF Project Preparation Credit to Banque Ouest Africaine de
Developpement; US$3.0 million; Credit of January 25, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
The objective of the project is to finance feasibility and detailed
engineering studies by external consultants of regional development projects,
which a priori have a high probability of success. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily. BOAD is a well managed institution, but its financial situa-
tion will have to be carefully monitored.
Credit No. 1018-TO First Education Project; US$ 11.0 million; Credit of
September 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Construction of training institutions is progressing on schedule.



- 28 -                                 ANNEX III
Page 1
TOGO
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: 10 months
(b) Project prepared by: OTP and the Association
(c) First presentation to the Association: October 1980
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: January 29, 1981
(e) Completion of Negotiations: May 13, 1981
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 1981
SECTION II: SPECIAL IDA IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
To help assure prompt initiation of the project, up to US$700,000
would be provided to help finance costs for contracting technical
advisory services and starting tests and studies. These costs
would be financed under an advance from the Project Preparation
Facility approved in March 1981, and would be refinanced from the
proposed credit (para. 57).
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
The following principal agreements have been obtained from the
Government and OTP:
(a) from the Government
(i)    the credit funds would be transfered to OTP by the Govern-
ment for 10 years including 3 years of grace at 11%
interest rate (para. 56);
(ii)   the levies on OTP's revenues will be limited so that OTP would
maintain a 1.3 debt service coverage ratio during project
implementation (para. 56);
(iii) agreement among the Bank. the Government and OTP that the
results of Phase I confirm the technical and economic
viability of the full phosphate fertilizer project would
be a condition of disbursement for Phase II of the
project (para. 60); and



- 29 -                                   ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv)   after completion of Phase II of the project, the Govern-
ment and OTP would exchange views with the Association prior to
making a decision to proceed with the full phosphate
fertilizer project (para. 62).
(b) from OTP
(i)    the selection, qualification, experience, terms of
reference and conditions of employment of the
engineering firm that would execute Phase II of the
project would be acceptable to the Association (para. 63).
Qualification, terms of reference and condition of
employment of all other consultants would be acceptable
to the Association (para. 63);
(ii)   appointment of market consultants would be finalized
before June 30, 1982, and that of the engineering firm
would be a condition of disbursements for Phase II
(para. 60); and
(iii)   consultation with the Association prior to the
initiation of pre-contracting activities (para. 55).
(iv)   the Project Unit would be staffed with an economist and
financial analyst and a chemical engineer with qualifications
acceptable to the Association no later than March 31, 1982
(para. 59).
(c)  as conditions of effectiveness, the subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and OTP with terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association would be signed (para. 56); and a Project Unit
would be created within OTP and qualified staff acceptable to the
Association would be appointed (para. 59).



- 30 -                                 ANNEX IV
Page 1
TOGO - PHOSPHATE FERTILIZER ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR FEASIBILITY STUDY
Background
Togo is a major producer of phosphate rock and exports about three
million tons of high grade rock to all parts of the world. In order to extend
the scope of its phosphate operations, Togo is currently considering the manu-
facture of phosphoric acid and possibly phosphate fertilizers to meet a growing
demand in the export market for these products.
Togo rock, however, as currently mined and sold on the export market,
is a very high grade product and commands a premium price. It is not intended
that this high grade rock be used for the manufacture of phosphoric acid but
that other lower quality phosphate resources in the local mining area should be
exploited. Normally, phosphoric acid manufacture in plants situated near a mine
show best advantage when processing lower grade rocks which have a relatively
low export value and which can therefore also be costed to the phosphoric acid
manufacturer at relatively low cost.
To assist Togo in assessing the optimum feed material for its phos-
phate project, consultants carried out a study of the geological and mining
data available at the Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP). They assessed presently
declared figures of reserves as regards quantity, quality of ore and costs, and
examined the possibilities of exploiting a lower grade of rock to be used as
feedstock for phosphoric acid manufacture.
The consultants recommended that the feed material for the phosphoric
acid plant be taken from a new area of the deposit called Dagbati, which has the
potential to produce an average beneficiated grade of rock of 75% BPL but contains
substantial amounts of iron and aluminum impurities. This proposal coincides with
OTP's own development plan to mine the Dagbati reserves. Reserves are estimated at
about 20 million tons of concentrate and are expected to form an ample basis for
an economic sized project. In addition, it is known that there is the possibility
of exploiting a much lower grade of phosphate rock in a second phosphate formation
now known as "Bed 23", which could form the basis of a second stage phosphate
fertilizer project.
Apart from the ore from the Dagbati deposit, Togo has also started
to recover a low grade phosphate product by classifying the slimes reject from
the existing rock production at the beneficiation plant at Kpeme. This concen-
trate could also be used for phosphoric acid manufacture, and the feasibility
study will determine the most economic way of utilizing the two potential
feed materials.



- 31 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 2
Objectives
The Government of Togo through OTP wishes to carry out a comprehen-
sive feasibility study on the proposed phosphate fertilizer project. The main
objectives of the study are the following:
(i) to determine the technical, financial and economic
viability of a phosphate fertilizer project in Togo
based on the exploitation of rock from the Dagbati
deposit and with recovered phosphate from the slimes
from the beneficiation plant at Kpeme;
(ii) to present an appropriate plan of exploitation of
the mine at Dagbati, the beneficiation of the ore,
and production of phosphate intermediates and ferti-
lizers with engineering design, equipment lists and
manpower levels to a degree of detail sufficient for
an accurate prediction of project schedule, costs
and benefits;
(iii) to present an implementation plan for the project
defining appropriate implementation and procurement
procedures;
(iv) to provide a comprehensive and documented compilation
of all other aspects concerning the project and pre-
pare capital cost estimates, market, financial and
economic analyses which could be presented to
potential equity participants and sources of finance,
for financing and implementation decisions.
The study will evaluate the viability of a project based on 1,000 tpd
production of P205 as phosphoric acid. It should also investigate a range of
product mixes of phosphoric acid, triple superphosphate, diammonium phosphate,
including either one or more of these products, depending on both production
costs and potential markets for Togo phosphates.
Sufficient preliminary design and engineering work should be carried
out to enable the preparation of realistic (i.e. sufficient accuracy to permit
subsequent investment decision) capital and operating cost estimates for the
project including the mine, the beneficiation process, the phosphate processing
facilities and the infrastructural requirements. This second phase work,
however, will be initiated only after earlier work has established the basic
technical and economic viability of the mining and processing operations.
The study will identify and evaluate the effect of the new develop-
ments on the existing phosphate operations, and how the two can be coordinated
to assure optimum utilization of resources and the possibility of using common
facilities and operations such as the railroad, pier, office facilities and
other services and utilities.



- 32-                                ANNEX IV
Page 3
Consultant Requirements
To ensure the objectives of the study are fully met, OTP proposes to
engage the services of highly qualified consultants to assist them in carrying
out the various studies on rock testing, mining, phosphoric acid manufacture,
marketing, etc., and in the coordination of the work and final preparation of
the feasibility study. The details of consultant requirements are given in the
Scope of Work below.
Schedule of Work
The work under the feasibility study is divided into two phases.
Phase IIwill be initiated only after Phase I confirms the economic and tech-
nical viability of exploiting the Dagbati deposits together with recovering
phosphate values from the existing beneficiation plant slimes. It is expected
that completion of the full feasibility study will take about 26 months. Phase
I will begin in early 1981 and will take about 16 months. Phase II is expected
to take about 10 months after the award of the contract for the main consultant
services which should take place in June 1982.
Scope of Work
The specific areas to be covered by the feasibility study will in-
clude but are not limited to the following:
PHASE 1
(A) Assessment of Dagbati Phosphate Rock for Phosphate Fertilizer Production
Separate terms of reference have already been prepared and proposals
invited for the testing of Dagbati rock as such, and also mixed with varying
proportions of recovered phosphate from the beneficiation plant slimes. The
rock and mixtures will be tested for the production of phosphoric acid, triple
superphosphate and diammonium phosphate. In consultation with the Association,
OTP has engaged a technical advisor to review the results of these tests in
order to assess their implications for plant design, storage, transport, invest-
ment and production costs.
(B) Beneficiation Tests
Although preliminary work on the beneficiation of Dagbati rock in-
dicates that the rock can be upgraded in a similar manner to that currently
used in Togo, albeit with a somewhat lower yield, further development work will
be required to obtain the necessary design parameters for the beneficiation
plant and information on yield, investment and production costs. It is proposed
that separate specialized consultants with appropriate experience in phosphate
rock beneficiation be engaged to carry out this development work and to deter-
mine the optimum process and plant design.



ANNEX IV
- 33 -                                Page 4
(C) Preliminary Engineering/Financial/Economic Study
OTP with the help of its technical advisors will carry out these
studies.
a. Existing studies on the Togo Phosphate Project. Many
studies have been carried out in the past few years on
this subject. The consultant will review this work to
see what is useful for the current feasibility study.
b. Availability of phosphate raw materials. Study the
potential sources of phosphate rock for phosphoric
acid manufacture, including the Dagbati deposit and the
longer term prospects for exploiting "Bed 23". For each
of these potential reserves, review all available data
and then propose, as appropriate, the need for any
supplementary geological surveys, core drillings and
analytical tests that may be necessary to prove the
quality and quantity of reserves for the phosphate
project, and which will be carried out during Phase II.
Assess the availability and quality of phosphate con-
centrate recovered from the slimes from the existing
beneficiation plant at Kpeme, and also the potential
phosphate recoverable from the slimes of the new bene-
ficiation plant that will be needed to upgrade crude
ore from Dagbati.
c. Development of a phosphate rock mine plan and bene-
ficiation process.
(i) Preparation of a geological map to establish pre-
liminary mining plans and the optimum method to
exploit reserves to ensure consistent feed materials
throughout the project life.
(ii) Specification of equipment and mining methods,
including the cost of bringing power to the site for
the mining operations.
(iii) Estimation of new transport facilities required
to extend the present railway system to the Dagbati
deposits, and to provide loading facilities similar
to that now used at Hahotoe.
(iv) Estimation of overall investment requirements
for the mine and the cost of producing rock and
transporting it to the beneficiation plant at Kpeme.
(v) Preparation of process flow sheets and
material balances for the beneficiation plant. This
will be based on the existing practice at Kpeme and
on the results of the tests now being organized by
OTP on the Dagbati ore.



- 34 -                                 ANNEX IV
Page 5
(vi) Estimation of overall investment requirements
and production costs for the beneficiation of Dagbati
ore.
d. The manufacture of phosphoric acid and/or phosphate
fertilizers.
(i) Preparation of process flow sheets and material
balances for the most promising scenarios with varying
product mix.
(ii) Specification of main items of process and off-site
facilities including those for utilities and effluent
disposal.
(iii) Availability and cost of providing process and
cooling water facilities at Kpeme for the new facilities.
(iv) Specification of additional main power and super-
vision requirements at Kpeme, taking into account the
existing facilities.
(v) Estimation of investment and production costs for
phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers.
e. Overall assessment of first phase of feasibility study.
Review all the information and data gathered by carrying
out the aforesaid, and determine the optimum size and
product mix of the project. Determine the technical and
economic viability of such a project located at Kpeme and
using the port facilities at Lome for the import of
raw material and export of finished product, and preparation
of a report to help make investment decisions for the Togo
Phosphate Project. Recommendations should be made for
any additional studies or experimental work that will
be required under Phase II.
PHASE II
Phase II will be executed after Phase I has indicated a potentially
economic phosphate fertilizer project. OTP will engage an engineering firm
(hereafter called the main consultant) to carry out the main feasibility
study. The marketing study will be carried out by specialized consultants
while mining and transport studies between Dagbati and Kpeme will be carried
out by OTP.
(D) Marketing Study
Consultants will be engaged to examine the market prospects for the
project using, to the extent possible, existing information from other sources
(including from the UNIDO/FAO/World Bank Fertilizer Working Group), and also
to look at the availability of sulphur.



ANNEX IV
Page 6
- 35 -
a. Marketing of products from the Togo Phcsphate Fertilizer Project.
(i) Review all available information and conduct
detailed analysis of the phosphate products export
markets. This will include historical trade data
by country for phosphoric acid, triple superphos-
phate and diammonium phosphate. Identify likely
export markets for phosphate products from Togo.
(ii) Prepare phosphate demand projections for 10
years on a global basis and on a country-by-country
basis. Prepare supply projections for the next
five years based on new planned capacity, and pre-
pare a speculative list of new plant capacity
possible at various potential export sources for 10
years. Analyze supply, demand and balances.
(iii) Prepare import/export matrices on international
phosphatic intermediates and fertilizer trade, and
identify the role of Togo phosphates in the future
international trade market.
(iv) Review and analyze all available information on
current and prospective rock and product prices,
transportation costs, likely sources of supply to
prospective customers.
(v) Assess likely landed prices of Togo phosphate
products from the project to potential markets, and
compare them with projected import prices from com-
petitive sources. Assess the importance of other
factors affecting demand, such as product quality,
the ability to supply both rock and phosphate
products, etc.
(vi) Recommend suitable organizational arrangements
for the handling, storage, transportation and dis-
tribution of Togo phosphates to export markets, and
particularly how these will link in with existing
arrangements for selling Togo phosphate rock.



ANNEX IV
- 36 -                                 Page 7
b. Availability of Sulphur
(i) Review available relevant information on current world
sulphur situation including sources of supply, markets and
emerging supply/demand balances.
(ii) Estimate the future cost of supplying sulphur to the
major centers of phosphoric acid production on the basis
of total cif values from the sources most likely to deter-
mine overall market prices.
(iii) Review and recommend the most promising sources of
sulphur for a new phosphate project in Togo.
(E) Further Evaluation of Potential Deposits
OTP will undertake supplementary geological surveys, core drillings and
analytical tests to assess the quality and quantity of potential phosphate
reserves, near the main deposit. This work may necessitate the purchase of
drilling equipment. Studies will be carried out to establish the possibility
of beneficiating the rock of these beds as for bed 23.
(F) Site Selection
The main consultant will carry out comprehensive studies to determine
the optimal location of the plant and port facilities. He will compare
three scenarios, taking into account the possibility that adequate reserves
may exist in Togo that would justify the implementation of a new project,
similar to that now being considered. The three scenarios are as follows:
(i) The phosphoric acid plant located at Kpeme. Sulphur
imports and finished products exported by way of a new
pier at Kpeme.
(ii) The phosphoric acid plant located at Kpeme. Sulphur
imports and finished products exported by way of the
existing port facilities at Lome.
(iii) The phosphoric acid plant located in the industrial
area behind the Lome Port, with sulphur imports and
finished products exported by way of the existing port
facilities at Lome.
In doing these comparative analyses, the consultant will assess. in
particular, the differences on the project's investment and operating cost
and the impact on the environment due to effluents. Conclusions and
recommendations concerning the optimal location of the plant and port
facilities will be reviewed by OTP and the World Bank before final locations
are decided.



ANNEX IV
- 37 -                                Page 8
(G) Basic Engineering: Financial/Economic Analysis, Contract Preparation
For the analyses below, all information and data needed by the
main consultant on rock mining and transport between Dagbati and Kpeme will
be given by OTP. The main consultant will execute the following studies.
a. Preparation of basic design data and cost estimates.
(i) Preparation of the basic engineering design for
the Togo Phosphate Project selected as described in
paragraph F (i) and F (ii) above. This should be
sufficient to enable the selection and sizing of
all major equipment and machinery that would be
required for mining beneficiation, phosphate pro-
cessing, storage and transportation.
(ii) Preparation of detailed estimates of capital
costs and operating costs for the mine, benefic-
iation, phosphate processing and storage, trans-
portation, utilities and other infrastructure
required for the project.
(iii) Analysis of the environmental impact of the
project such as the effects of gaseous liquid and
solid effluents from both the beneficiation and
phosphate processing plants, to ensure that the
project will meet both local and international
standards.
b. Project implementation arrangements and schedule.
(i) Propose arrangements for project design, engineering,
procurement, construction, commissioning and operations,
including guarantees and bonuses/penalties for process
performance, schedules, specific consumptions, etc.
(ii) Design suitable organizational and administrative
arrangements for the efficient management and supervision
of project construction and operations, including a
detailed assessment of needs of foreign staff and consul-
tants by categories and duration.
(iii) Indicate total staff requirements for the mining,
processing and other operations, broken down by cate-
gories as appropriate, to identify sources and plan
training programs.
(iv) Develop a practical, economic and expedient plan for
the implementation of the project, and draw up a detailed
time schedule.



- 38 -                                  ANNEX IV
Page 9
(v) Present implementation plan for the project defining
appropriate procurement procedures for contractors and
equipment. The consultant would prepare draft invitations
to bid and propose to OTP corresponding bid evaluation
criteria. Finally, it would prepare a draft contract as a
basis for negotiations with the selected general contractor.
c. Capital and operating costs.
(i) After an interim review on the basis of the findings in
Sections A and B above, provide a detailed capital cost for
the project, including mining, processing, utilities, infra-
structure, working capital and interest during construction,
all with a breakdown of cost items between local and foreign
costs. The cost estimate should have sufficient accuracy on
the basis of preliminary design and engineering work carried
out by the consultants to enable investors to make an invest-
ment decision on the subsequent project; provide an
explanation on the assumptions used in the estimation.
(ii) Provide estimates of operating costs (including mainten-
ance and transportation to the port) for the project, with
detailed breakdown. The estimate should be based on both
local and international prices.
d. Financial and economic analysis
(i) Evaluate the financial viability of the overall pro-
ject on the basis of cash flow projections and
internal financial rate of return calculations. The
basic assumptions used in the financial evaluations
should be fully explained. The computation should in-
clude a risk analysis to evaluate the sensitivity of the
project to critical factors.
(ii) Evaluate the economic viability of the overall pro-
ject on the basis of internal economic rates of return.
For this purpose, all inputs and outputs should be
evaluated at their economic opportunity cost, rather than
at domestic market prices which may reflect market im-
perfections. For internationally tradeable goods, CIF
international prices can be used as representative of
opportunity costs. Estimates of future international prices
for major inputs and outputs will be reviewed by the World
Bank. Appropriate risk analyses should also be made; the
assumptions used in the evaluation should be fully explained.
(iii) Prepare projected financial statements (Balance Sheet,
Income Statement and Cash Flows) for 15 years, in constant
prices. Assumptions on price deflators will be reviewed by
the World Bank.



- 39 -                                 ANNEX IV
Page 10
(iv) Evaluate the impact of the project qn Togo and identify
direct and indirect social and economic benefits. Consider
possible changes in some of the parameters of the project and
its infrastructure that could have a favorable impact on Togo.
Analyze the social and economic benefits and costs of these
changes in order to permit a decision on the desirability of
executing them.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1981



- 40 -                               ANNEX V
TOGO
PHOSPHATE ENGINEERING
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
President OTP
ISecretary General
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
UNIT                                          I
Project Manager                           | Technical
Advisors for
I.ining and
l  .  P                         _   _       l~~~~~~~~~ Phosphoric Acid
I    Mining          Industrial/          Economist/           PhStudies
I   Engineer       Chem. Engineer        Fin. Analyst          Sui
Market Consultants and Engineering Firm
for Execution of Feasibility Study
Industrial Projects Department
May 1981



TOGO
PHOSPHiATE ENGINEERING AND
l'ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Feasibility Study
-      - PHASE I                                     4PHASE 11
ITEM                            MONTH   1 2 3   4   5,  6    7   8   9   10  11  12  13  14  15   16  171    920   21  22  23  24  25  26
1. Pi eliminary and Beneficiation Rock Tests
2. Comprehensive Rock Tests
3. Preliminary Mining Studies
4.Preliminary Technic-il/Econormic Studies
and Interim Report
5. Market Studies
6. Infrastructural Studies                                                                                                                                                                F
7. Mine Studies and Mining Plan
8. Evaluation of Potential New Deposits
9. Preliminary Design/Engineering
10. Estimation of Capital/Operating Costs
11. Financial/Economic Analy-sis
12. Project Implementatation Arrangements
13. Preparation of Final Report
World Bank - 22641
Industrial Projects Department
May 1981






b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?o5  o           Z
!2  z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
z       0Cc
a                   0~~~~~~~~~~
c                                                 0:
z~~~u                         0
0                                     -~~0    0. 0   R  C
D             4 i
(5      0  0-.s2 -c        0  0-
~~  ~   ~      ooooo 0 -    000    >
E              Z o 
b        2                     H   $':>'~~~~~~~~
'QL.<(M.     0
X    0~~
-           qA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



