OFFIC1AL
MFIUMTS       CREDIT NUMBER 1169 TO
*                                     LDOUME~NTSJ
Development Credit Agreement
(Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC 'OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1169 TO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   Q):4;o          , 1981, between REPUBLIC
OF TOGO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) any financing so provided by the Association would be
refunded, if the Association so requests, out of the proceeds of
any credit by the Association or loan by the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development which may later be granted to
the Borrower, or any political subdivision thereof, or any enter-
prise owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or
benefit of the Borrower or of any such subdivision or any subsi-
diary of such enterprise, for the carrying out of any project for
which studies or designs have been carried out under the Project;
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Office Togoiais
des Phosphates with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will relend to the Office Togolais des
Phosphates the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
.(D) pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 8 , 1981,
and July 20, 1981, between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association has granted to the Borrower an advance in various
currencies equivalent to seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000)
(9          for the purpose of assisting the Borrower and the Office Togolais
des Phosphates in the preparation of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Office Togolais des Phosphates;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section. 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the. Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and the. Office Togolais des Phosphates of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes the Schedule to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Office Togolais des
Phosphates pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time;
(c) "OTP" means the Office Togolais des Phosphates, a wholly
government-owned company established and existing under the laws
of the Borrower.
(d) "Project Unit" means the project unit to be established
within OTP in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (a)
of the Project Agreement.
(e) "Phosphate Fertilizer Project" means a project for the
manufacture and export of phosphoric acid and phosphate ferti-
lizers on the basis of the phosphate deposits at Dagbati and
low-grade phosphate slimes recovered from existing rock beneficia-
tion operations, the economic and technical viability of which is
to be determined on the basis of the studies and activities under
the Project.
(f) "Advance" means the advance in various currencies
equivalent to. seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000) granted to
the Borrower by the Association pursuant to an exchange of letters
dated June 8, 1981 and July 20, 1981.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to four million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) After the Effective Date of this Agreement, the Associa-
tion shall withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself, on
behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Advance withdrawn and outstanding, together with the
accrued service charges and other charges, if any, thereon. Any
amount of the Advance remaining unwithdrawn shall automatically be
cancelled on the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1991, and ending May 15,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of the Board of OTP is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause OTP to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all actions necessary or appropriate to
enable OTP to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
OTP under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and OTP under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association. Such terms and conditions shall
include, inter alia, that the proceeds of the Credit shall be
relent to OTP for a term of 10 years, includ-ing a grace period of
three years, at an interest rate of eleven per cent (11%) per
annum, and that the proceeds of the Credit so relent shall
be used by OTP for the purposes of the Project and in accordance
with Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the


﻿-5-
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) To the extent that the aggregate of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to OTP pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section
and the amount to be contributed by OTP out of its own resources
pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement is insuffi-
cient to meet all expenditures necessary to complete the Project,
the Borrower shall make, or cause to be made, available to OTP all
necessary funds promptly as needed.
Section 3.02. Upon completion of Parts B.1, .2 and 3 (a) of
the Project, the Borrower shall consult with OTP and the Asso-
ciation on the conclusions and recommendations relating thereto
and shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed
implementation of the Phosphate Fertilizer Project, including
pre-contracting activities, and its financing.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenant
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take no action which would,
on the basis of a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expen-
ditures of OTP, cause the projected internal cash generation of
OTP for any fiscal year during the execution of the Project to
be less than 1.3 times the projected debt service of OTP in such
fiscal year on all debt of OTP. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by OTP maturing more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(b) "internal cash generation of OTP" means gross income
of OTP from all sources less all operating and administrative
expenses of OTP excluding depreciation of assets and interest and
other charges on debt;
(c) "debt service" means the aggregate amount of amortiza-
tion (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on debt; and
(d) the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast by OTP
for each fiscal year prior to the start of such fiscal year


﻿-6-
prepared on the basis of a draft forecast submitted to the
Association for review and which duly takes into account the
Association's comments, if any, on such draft, provided that no
event has occurred since the preparation of such draft forecast
which has or may reasonably be expected in the future to have a
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future
operating results of OTP.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) OTP shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of OTP under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that OTP will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(c) the statutes of OTP dated July 10, 1974, as amended by
Ordonnance No. 80-17 dated February 4, 1980, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of OTP to carry out
the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of OTP or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and OTP; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed on
behalf of the Borrower and OTP; and
(b) the Project Unit has been established in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of the Project Agreement and
the Project Manager and the mining and beneficiation engineer
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of the Project Agreement have
taken up their positions.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Board of Directors of OTP and the Minister of
the Borrower at the time responsible for mines, and is legally
binding upon OTP in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Board of Directors
of OTP and the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible
for mines, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and OTP in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 0                     is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Se tion 12.0 of the Ge eral Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date on which the Project Agreement shall terminate, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible
for economy and finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:                          )
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 'Economie et des Finances
B.P. 387
Lome, Togo
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFINANCES                         5286
Lome, Togo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For OTP:
Botte Postale 379
Lome
Togo
Cable address:                        Telex:
Phosphat - Lome                    5214 FOSFAT - TO


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By
Authorized Representat e
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                )s/ A>x        cC   k&    x
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
finapced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures          0
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment for Part              420,000        100% of for-
B.4 of the Project                            eign expendi-
tures and, if
procured lo-
cally, 90% of
local expen-
ditures
(2) Consultants and experts'        420,000        100% of for-
services for Part A                           eign expendi-
of the Project                                tures
(3) Consultants and               2,510,000        100% of for-
experts' services                             eign expendi-
for Part B of the                             tures
Project
(4) Refunding of the Advance        590,000        100% of amount
outstanding
(5) Unallocated                     860,000
TOTAL               4,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of


﻿- 11 -.
another country from the territory of which goods or services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures:
(a) prior to June 30, 1981; and
(b) under Categories 1 and 3 until: (i) the Association
shall be satisfied, on the basis of the studies and activities
carried out under Part A of the Project and of such other con-
siderations as it shall deem relevant, that the Phosphate Ferti-
lizer Project appears technically and econcmically viable; and
.(ii) OTP shall have appointed engineering consultants to assist it
in carrying out Part B of the Project in accordance with Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures.


﻿6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
0


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The principal purpose of the Project is to assist the Bor-
rower in determining the technical and economic viability of the
Phosphate Fertilizer Project.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Phase I
1.   Rock Tests on the Phosphate Deposits at Dagbati
(a) Preliminary and comprehensive tests on the physical and
chemical properties of the phosphate deposits.
(b) Tests to determine the optimal beneficiation process.
2.   Mining Studies
On the basis of currently known reserves of phosphate depos-
its at Dagbati:
(a) establishment of a mining plan;
(b) estimation of requirements for mining equipment and
rock transport facilities; and
(c) estimation of overall investment and production costs
for the mining, transport and beneficiation of the rock in said
deposits.
3.   Preliminary Studies for Phosphate Fertilizer Project
(a) Preliminary assessment of technical and economic
viability of the Phosphate Fertilizer Project, particularly in
light of the possibility of directly exporting the Dagbati rock,
and determination of optimum project size and product mix.
(b) Determination of preliminary design criteria of
facilities for the manufacture of phosphoric acid and phosphate
fertilizers.


﻿IL4I
- 14 -
(c) Evaluation of principal requirements for offsite
facilities and infrastructure, including utilities and effluent
disposal.
(d) Preparation of a report to assess the results of the
Phase I activities and studies and, if necessary, to recommend
and draw up terms of reference for further studiei and experi-
mental work.
Part B:   Phase II                       .
1.   Infrastructure for the Phosphate Fertilizer Project
(a) Determination of optimum site location. for the phos-
phoric acid and phosphate fertilizer plants, port and railway
facilities.
(b) Assessment of needs and supplies of power and fresh
and salt water.    -
(c) Evaluation of the environmental impact of effluent
disposal of gypsum and fluorine compounds.
2.   Market Studies
(a) Review of world markets for phosphoric acid and phos-
phate fertilizers and development of an export marketing strategy.
(b) Review of the supplies of sulphur in the world and
determination of the most promising sources of sulphur supply for
the 2hosphate Fertilizer Project.
(c) Review and evaluation of alternative arrangements for
shipping phosphoric acid.
3.   Feasibility Report and Initial Implementation of the
Phcsphate Fertilizer Project
(a) Preparation of a complete feasibility report for the
Phosphate Fertilizer Project, including, inter alia:
(i) basic engineering design;


﻿(ii) detailed capital cost estimates (including the
mine, processing plants, and infrastructure and
utility facilities);
(iii) detailed estimates of operating costs;
(iv) detailed economic and financial analyses; and
(v) organizational arrangements and time schedules.
(b) Pre-contracting activities for the Phosphate Fertilizer
Project including, inter alia, preparation of bid and cc-ract
documents, prequalification of bidders, evaluation of bids and
recommendation of contract -awards.
4.   Evaluation of Potential Phosphate Reserves
Geological surveys, core drillings, beneficiation and rock
tests to assess the quantity and quality of potential phosphate
reserves near the main known deposits with a view to determining
the long-term strategy for the phosphate sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1983.
41


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


