Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18872-UZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$29.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
FOR AN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
April 20, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 1999)
Currency Unit = Soum
1 Soum =US$ 0.0074
US$ 1 = 135 Soums
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                   Adaptable Program Loan
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CTC                   City Transport Commission
CTD                   City Transport Department
ERR                   Economic Rate of Return
FSU                   Former Soviet Union
FY                    Financial Year
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
IFC                   International Finance Corporation
JSC                   Joint Stock Company
MOF                   Ministry of Finance
NPV                   Net Present Value
PIP                   Public Investment Program
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
SOE                   State-Owned Enterprise
VAT                   Value Added Tax
UAART                 Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport
UATT                  Uzavtotrans Taminot
Vice President:   Johannes Lirm, ECAVP,
Country Director:   Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Sector Manager:   Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Task Team Leader:   Jean-Charles Crochet, ECSIN



UZBEKISTAN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       6
3. Benefits and target population                                                     6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          12
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                      14
5. Social                                                                             16
6. Environment                                                                        16
7. Participatory Approach                                                             17
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     18
2. Critical risks                                                                     18
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     19



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            19
2. Other                                                                              19
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         22
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        30
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  31
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              36
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      39
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    49
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  50
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            52
Annex 11: Urban Passenger Transport Development - Strategy Statement                     54
MAP(S)
IBRD 30846



UZBEKISTAN
Urban Transport Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: April 20, 2000                             Team Leader: Jean-Charles Crochet
Country Manager/Director: Kiyoshi Kodera         Sector Manager/Director: Eva Molnar
Project ID: P050508                              Sector(s): TU - Urban Transport
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Private Sector; Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
X Loan         O Credit        0 Grant        CIl Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$29.0 million
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                              Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75 %
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                  Local         Foreign        Total
GOVERNMENT                                                    2.45           0.00          2.45
IBRD                                                          0.00          29.00         29.00
IDA
Total:                                                        2.45          29.00         31.45
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
Responsible agency: UZAVTOTRANS
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2001        2002         2003       2004        2005
Annual     1.5          14.0         9.0        3.0         1.5
Cumulative     1.5         15.5        24.5       27.5        29.0
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD F-,D Re M.&,R 200D



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Efficient and sustainable urban passenger transport services in Samarkand (population 400,000),
Namangan (380,000), Bukhara (270,000), Nukus (250,000) and Almalyk (120,000).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(i) Adequacy of the supply of urban passenger transport services in the five cities to satisfy demand;.
(ii) Adequacy of urban transport operators' management of their operations and maintenance of their
vehicles in the five cities;
(iii) Allocation of bus route franchises in the five cities on the basis of a sound competitive bidding process;
(iv) Quality of the planning of urban transport systems and administration of franchise contracts by the city
administrations in the five cities;
(v) Ability of the efficient transport operators in the five cities to fully recover their costs (including the
cost of transporting privileged passengers), and generate a reasonable profit.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17376 UZ                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/10/98
Given that the Govemnment is cautious in liberalizing the economy and has implemented only partial
macroeconomic reforns, the Bank's general strategy for Uzbekistan, as expressed in the latest CAS, is to
create incentives for deeper structural reforms through carefully selected investment operations in sectors
where the Government is willing to experiment with reforms, in parallel with a continuing policy dialogue.
In this context, one of the four major objectives which the Government and the Bank Group have agreed to
work on is the removal of inefficiencies in resource utilization in the municipal services, infrastructure, and
social services.
The proposed project is fully consistent with this strategy. It is included in the CAS and fits the objective of
removing inefficiencies in municipal services and infrastructure. It is also in a sector, urban transport,
where the Government has taken forceful measures in the past two and a half years to improve the
regulatory and institutional framework and to open the provision of services to the private sector (as is
explained later). It is expected that the proposed project will help satisfactorily complete the recent sector
reforms in five pilot cities, as well as improve the delivery of services in these cities by providing much
needed transport capacity and improving the capability of urban transport operators.
-2-



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government has often expressed the view that the urban transport sector is among the country's
priority sectors. Indeed, Uzbek cities have special features (shared with most other cities in the former
Soviet Union) which make urban passenger transport of special importance for their population. These
cities are unusually spread out with low overall population densities and long distances between residential
and work areas. Commerce, markets and social services are also not within walking distance of people's
residences in most cases. In addition, the climate is difficult, with cold temperatures during the winter and
very hot summers. Finally, there are few alternative means of transport (car ownership is about 65 vehicles
per thousand people, one of the lowest in the former Soviet Union, and motorcycles are beyond the reach of
most of the population). For all these reasons, urban passenger transport is essential for access to jobs and
services, and, more generally, for the efficient functioning of the labor and product markets as well as the
effectiveness of social and political life. This is particularly relevant for those with unstable employment
and uncertain access to support networks, who constitute the majority of the poor.
Until about two and a half years ago, urban passenger transport services were provided almost exclusively
by companies of the Uzavtotrans group. Uzavtotrans, the Uzbek State Corporation for Automobile
Transport, is a very large holding company which took over seven years ago most regulatory and
operational functions of the former Ministry of Automobile Transport. It provides international and
domestic freight and intercity passenger transport services in addition to urban passenger transport. Many
operting enterprises of the Uzavtotrans group have now been established as joint stock companies.
However, only about 10-20 % of these companies' capital has in general been sold to private investors
(mostly employees of the companies) and the central organization of Uzavtotrans has responsibility for the
remaining State-owned share of the capital. This responsibility is carried out by regional management
subsidiaries of Uzavtotrans called the Oblasttrans. These keep the operating companies under relatively
strict supervision.
Starting with the Urban Transport Law of April 1997, the Government has implemented some radical
changes in the organization and regulation of urban transport services in Uzbekistan. Increasing
responsibility has been delegated to the city administrations to organize and manage the provision of urban
transport services on the basis of exclusive bus route franchises. These franchises are allocated through a
competitive tendering process open without any restrictions to the Uzavtotrans operating companies (herein
referred to as the Joint Stock Companies, or JSCs) as well as to private companies and small
owner-operator associations. The tendering process is in each city under the responsibility of the City
Tendering Commission (CTC), chaired by a Deputy Mayor, with all technical work (starting with the
planning of routes and services) carried out by the City Transport Department (CTD). The CTCs and
CTDs perform under relatively precise instructions and control from the central Government, particularly
the newly created Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport (UAART), which has authority at
the national level for sector regulation and licencing. This franchising system has been implemented by
steps over the past two and a half years, and continuously improved with the assistance of the Bank and
international consultants. The system is now in place for most public transport routes in almost all
important cities except Tashkent. In general, a healthy competition has developed (particularly for the
rapidly growing minibus services) and private operators have gained a substantial share of the public
transport market. In the five cities which would participate in the project, private operators (including the
informal owner-operators who have developed since the mid 1990's) now function under the franchising
system and provide on average about 50% of all urban transport services.
The Government has also progressively (i) reduced the number of citizens entitled to fare exemptions (now
mainly veterans and invalids, who constitute about 5% of all passengers), (ii) increased fares paid by
- 3 -



passengers who benefit from reduced fares (students, school children, and pensioneers, who generally
constitute about 20% of all passengers), and (iii) increased fares paid by all other passengers to about the
cost recovery level.
Recently, as a condition of Board presentation of the project, the Government has in addition implemented
some key improvements to the franchising system in the five project cities. These include in particular: (i)
a better standard form of contract for bus route franchises, which adequately defines the respective
responsibilities of the transport operators and their clients (the city administrations), provides remedies in
case of disputes, and includes a process for adjusting passenger fares fairly to reflect inflation in the price
of inputs; and (ii) measures to ensure that transport operators, private as well as State-owned, are
compensated for the transport of passengers who benefit from fare exemptions or reduced fares.
There are still some important issues, however, which the Government will need to address in the coming
years to increase the efficiency and sustainability of the urban passenger transport sector in the five project
cities, in particular as explained below.
(i) The regulatory and institutional framework for bus route franchising should still be improved, taking
lessons of experience into account. In particular, the evaluation procedures and criteria for the competitive
tendering of bus route franchises should be adjusted and refined to ensure that selected bids are the most
economic. The institutional capability of the CTCs and CTDs (in terms of systems and procedures,
equipment, as well as staff numbers and competence) also need to be developed in order to ameliorate the
planning of urban transport services and the administration of franchise contracts. In addition, the
remaining, often informal, links between the CTD/CTC and the Oblasttrans, and between UAART and
Uzavtotrans need to be fully severed.
(ii) The condition of the bus fleets needs to be improved rapidly. Although the JSCs in the project cities
have more than a thousand medium size and large buses on their books, only about two hundred have not
exceeded their service life. As a result, bus availability is low (on average, 60% of the buses considered
operable) and the number of daily breakdowns is extremely high (of the order of 25% of the buses starting
service each day, and sometimes more). Partly for this reason, the JSCs have lost about 50% of the market
to private transport operators in the past few years. However, because they lack capital and are not
creditworthy, these private operators typically own one small bus (generally a microbus manufactured by
Daewoo in Uzbekistan, or a second hand Soviet made van) funded from family savings. These buses are
not appropriate for large volume public transport and are more costly to operate.
(iii) The managerial and technical capability of the JSCs and the private transport operators is generally
low. They need improvement in accounting and financial management, in vehicle maintenance and stock
management, and in their tools, equipment and facilities.
(iv) Although the Government has the intention to privatize the JSCs, it has made little progress in this, to a
large extent because the JSCs are presently in poor financial situation and not attractive to any investor.
The Government is aware of these issues and has expressed its intention to design and implement with the
assistance of the project adequate measures to correct deficiencies. In order to make its policies explicit
and define the actions to be taken, the Government has adopted a strategy for the developement of urban
passenger transport services in the project cities for the next five years. This stategy (see Annex 11), which
is acceptable to the Bank, was issued on April 17, 2000, as a condition of Board Presentation of the
project. In addition, as a loan condition, the Government would (a) by November 30, each year starting in
year 2000, review the technical and economic efficiency of the urban bus route franchising system in the
-4-



project cities and discuss the result of such review with the Bank, and (b) by March 31, the following year,
issue instructions to the City Tendering Commissions in the project cities, acceptable to the Bank, to
improve the methodology for evaluation of bids for bus route franchises, the terms of the bus route
franchise contracts, and the procedures for supervision of the bus route franchise contracts.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would address selectively most of the issues presented above in Part B.2, by concentrating on
the measures which are critical in the next few years to improve the delivery of urban passenger transport
services to the population and to establish a sound framework of policies and incentives for the sector's
sustainable development.
In particular, the project would provide technical assistance, training, and equipment for improving bus
route franchising regulations, strengthening related institutions, improving mechanisms for compensating
urban transport operators for fare privileges, and developing the technical and management capability of
transport operators, whether State-owned or private. The project would also include the provision of new
vehicles and the rehabilitation and repair of existing ones. Both are critical for the cost effective delivery of
urban transport services.
The project would not include assistance for privatization of the JSCs because such privatization does not
seem feasible in the medium term and might lead to some weakening of the JSCs' corporate governance.
Instead, it is felt that the Government and the Bank should concentrate for the time being on the
improvement of the institutional, financial, and regulatory framework for the sector, in particular because it
would ensure open entry to the market for urban transport services and promote efficient competition,
which are prerequisite for improving the JSCs.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would include: (i) provision of new buses and the establishment of a commercial leasing
scheme for their allocation to competent private and State-owned operators on the basis of full cost
recovery; (ii) rehabilitation and repair of existing buses of the JSCs; (iii) strengthening of urban transport
operators through the provision of technical assistance, training, and office and workshop equipment; (iv)
improvements in the institutional, financial, and regulatory framework for urban transport services through
the provision of technical assistance, training, and office equipment; and (v) support to the Project
Implementation Unit in project management and procurement through the provision of technical assistance,
training, office equipment, and funding of its incremental operating costs.
Indicative             Bank-       % of
Component                    Sector         Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
|__________________  _(US$M)    Total     (US$M)  financing
1. Provision of New Buses and                            23.46       74.6      23.14       79.8
Establishement of a Leasing Scheme
for these Buses.
2. Rehabilitation and Repair of                           4.83       15.4       3.22       11.1
Existing Buses.
3. Strengthening of Urban Transport                       1.42        4.5       0.90        3.1
Operators.
-5 -



4. Improvements in the Institutional,                    0.32        1.0      0.32        1.1
Financial, and Regulatory Framework
for Urban Transport Services.
5. Project Management.                                   0.63        2.0      0.63        2.2
6. Refunding of PPF Advance.                             0.50        1.6      0.50        1.7
Total Project Costs                    31.16       99.1      28.71      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.29        0.9       0.29        1.0
Total Financing Required                     31.45      100.0     29.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key reforms supported by the project in the five project cities are: (i) the improvement of the bus route
franchising system (including bidding procedures, bid evaluation, and franchise contracts); (ii) the
strengthening of the City Transport Departments' ability to plan the urban transport system and administer
the franchise contracts; and (iii) the implementation of an adequate policy for compensation of the transport
operators for the carrying of privileged passengers.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the project would be the improved quality, reliability, and sustainability of urban
transport services in the five project cities. These improvements would in turn translate into better access to
employment, markets, social services, and social networks for the residents of the project cities, a total
population of approximately 1.4 million people, many of whom are poor and highly dependent on urban
transport services. The project is also expected to develop a track record which would later help for the
development of the bus leasing sector in Uzbekistan.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. 2000 - 2004
Executing Agencies. Uzavtotrans would have overall responsibility for implementing the project. For this
purpose, it has already set up a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to perform the monitoring,
disbursement, accounting, supervision, coordination, and reporting functions related to the project. The PIU
would also have responsibility for procurement of all consultants' and training services. Procurement of all
project goods would be the responsibility of Uzavtotrans Taminot (UATT), a large subsidiary of
Uzavtotrans specialized in procurement of new vehicles, spare parts, and supplies for all daughter
companies of the group.
In addition, responsibility for implementation of each project component would be as follows: (i) the bus
leasing scheme would be established and managed by UATT, which would also have responsibility for the
establishment of the new bus maintenance centers; (ii) rehabilitation and repair of the existing buses would
be carried out by the JSCs with spare parts procured by UATT; (iii) strengthening of the JSCs and the
private operators would be carried out by the central office of Uzavtotrans and the JSCs; and (iv)
improvement of the institutional, financial, and regulatory framework would be the responsibility of the
Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport assisted by the Interministerial Commission on
tendering of public passenger transport and in coordination with the City Administrations of the fivc project
cities.
UATT and other agencies and enterprises involved in the project would provide to the PIU all the
- 6 -



information it would require for fulfilling its supervision, coordination and reporting functions.
At Negotiations, it was agreed that: (i) as a condition of loan effectiveness, the PIU would be strengthened
with such structure, functions, and staffing acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the PIU would be maintained
until completion of the project. PIU strengthening would include in particular: (i) training of staff in
procurement and disbursement matters; (ii) making staff salary and benefits comparable to those offered to
staff in similar positions in other organizations; and (iii) purchase of necessary office equipment.
Channeling ofIBRD Assistance. The Borrower would be the Government of Uzbekistan. Proceeds of the
loan (except for those corresponding to Project Component 4 - Improvements in the Institutional, Financial,
and Regulatory Framework) would be passed on to Uzavtotrans by the Ministry of Finance under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank. These would include an interest rate equal to that of the Bank loan
to the Governnent, a maturity of ten years, a grace period of two years, and a 1% front-end fee.
Uzavtotrans would bear the foreign exchange risk. Signature of a subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to
the Bank, between the Ministry of Finance and Uzavtotrans would be a condition of loan effectiveness. It
is expected that, in turn, the central management of Uzavtotrans would conclude agreements with UATT
and the JSCs in the project cities for the repayment of the specific parts of the loan proceeds from which
they would benefit.
Financial Management and Auditing. The accounting and financial management systems of the PIU were
assessed as part of the projecVs pre-appraisal. It was concluded that they needed to be strengthened in
order to meet international standards and provide accurate and timely information on project resources and
expenditures as mandated by the Bank's Operational Policy 10.02. This strengthening is being carried out
in accordance with an action plan agreed at Negotiations. The action plan includes two main stages. First,
the PIU has taken action to ensure that minimum Bank requirements are met before Board Presentation.
This includes in particular: (i) the preparation of an operations manual that describes the allocation of
responsibilities to PIU staff and documents the PIU's internal controls (this manual is based on and
complements the instructions which already exist in Uzavtotrans); and (ii) the purchase of computers and
installation in the PIU of a computerized accounting and project management system (with a chart of
accounts specific to the project) that can produce reports in a format and substance acceptable to the Bank.
Second, the PIU's financial management system will be further strengthened and the capability of the PIU
in accounting, record keeping, reporting, and, more generally, project management, developed so that it can
prepare, starting on June 30, 2001, quarterly Project Management Reports acceptable to the Bank.
The project financial statements, the Special Account, and the Statements of Expenditure would be audited
at the end of each fiscal year during project implementation, in accordance with international standards on
auditing, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Selection and engagement of auditors for the
first year of project implementation would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The audit would include: (i)
an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and
other financial transactions; (ii) a determination as to whether the PIU has maintained adequate
documentation on all relevant transactions; (iii) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are
eligible for financing; and (iv) identification of any ineligible expenditures. Copies of the audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the country's fiscal year. Terms of
Reference for the audit and the selection of the auditor would be reviewed by the Bank every year.
Leasing and Maintenance Arrangements for the New Buses. It was agreed at Negotiations that the new
buses would be leased by UATT to private and State-owned operators under operational and financial
policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank, based on sound business principles, and detailed in an
agreed manual of policies and procedures. These would include in particular: (i) transparent and uniformly
-7 -



applied procedures for appraising potential lessees, fixing the level of lease payments, covering against
risks of damage or loss, supervising that buses are properly used, and dealing with cases of inadequate
performance of their obligations by lessees; (ii) full cost recovery, with depreciation and a financial return
on fixed assets in line with standard practices included in the calculation of cost; and (iii) the prompt
retrieval of leased buses in case of termination of a lease agreement. UATT would also maintain adequate
financial management systems for this purpose. Preparation of the manual and establishment of financial
management systems, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement of loan proceeds
allocated to the purchase of new buses. UATT's financial statements related to the bus leasing operations,
and the extent to which UATT has consistently applied its operational and financial policies and
procedures, would also be audited every six months during the first two years of project implementation
and every year thereafter by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
It was also agreed at Negotiations that the new buses would be maintained under a maintenance contract
acceptable to the Bank, and that the Government would provide all necessary authorizations to the vehicle
maintenance enterprise(s) for the import of spare parts and supplies necessary for the maintenance of these
buses during the post-warranty period. It is anticipated that the maintenance contract (which would be paid
out of UATT's leasing revenues) would be with the bus supplier. Finally, it was agreed at Negotiations
that the Government would prepare not later than December 31, 2003, a plan acceptable to the Bank for
privatization of the new bus fleet and the leasing organization and would take actions for the
implementation of this plan under a timeframe agreed with the Bank. The project would include services
for preparation of the privatization plan and support in its implementation. It is understood that the plan
would be consistent with the lease contracts and, in particular, any commitment that the lessees may have
received contractually from the lessor that they may purchase the buses at the end of the lease period.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Quarterly progress reports would be prepared by the PIU and furnished to the
Bank within thirty days from the end of each quarter. Agreement would be reached with the Government on
the substance and format of the reports during the project launch workshop. Progress on achievement of
agreed project performance indicators would be reported annually. A Mid-Term Review would be carried
out jointly with the Government in May 2002 to monitor procurement and implementation progress against
schedules, and review implementation capacity.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Specific investment loan (SIL) versus adaptable program loan (APL). The Bank considered an APL
approach, especially in view of the Government's desire for a larger loan ($60.0 million) and a wider
coverage of cities. The first phase would have covered the five project cities and the second phase a much
larger number of regional centers, once institutional, financial, and regulatory reforms would be fully
implemented. This approach was not retained, however, since there was uncertainty as to whether the
leasing mechanism used for the first phase would be appropriate for the second phase. In addition, it was
felt that once reforms would be implemented, the sector should be amenable to private sector funding, for
example with the participation of IFC. An APL approach was also considered just for the five project cities
with a smaller first phase focused on completing reforms and rehabilitation and repair of the existing bus
fleet, and, once this would be achieved, a second phase focused on the establishment of a leasing company.
This approach was also not retained because of the need for a prompt increase in the capacity of the bus
fleets in the five cities, and the Government's expectation that Bank financial assistance would recognize
the progress achieved so far in sector reforms.
-8 -



Number of cities to participate in the project. The Government initially proposed to include a large
number of cities (12 to 24) in the project. After discussions with the Bank, it has agreed to initially include
five cities, to keep the reform program and Bank support focused. The five selected cities vary in
population size and economic base, and provide a good geographical coverage of the country. This allows
many of the variations which can be expected across other cities to be reflected in the results of this project.
In this way, conclusions reached and lessons learnt would be relevant to most Uzbek cities.
Arrangements for making new buses available to transport operators. Various options to channel the new
buses to transport operators were examined for their compatibility with the long term objective of creating
a competitive, privately supplied market. Options included: (i) creation of a State-owned bus pool with
buses leased to private and State-owned transport operators under full cost recovery; (ii) development of a
bus leasing company owned by commercial investors (particularly commercial banks); (iii) development of
intermediary financing for vehicle purchase by operators through a line of credit; and (iv) development of a
guarantee arrangement to support private sector vehicle leasing. After discussions with the Government and
the private sector, it was concluded that the limited size of the market, together with the unfamiliar legal
and political systems, was likely to preclude efficient direct foreign investment in the bus industry in the
short run. It was also concluded that, given the lack of experience and track record with the bus route
franchising system, its remaining shortcomings, and general economic uncertainty in the country, any
options involving a line of credit and commercial bank loans to transport operators would be implemented
very slowly at best. Because of the requirements for collateral, this option would also most likely exclude
the independent private transport sector, and hence may limit competition in the sector. Operating lease
arrangements were found a sound way to avoid this bias, as well as to ensure that buses were well
maintained and operators forced to consider the full costs of their vehicles in making franchise bids.
However, extending finance to commercial leasing companies was found premature at this stage, due to the
unwillingness of potential investors to bear the presently high risks of vehicle leasing in Uzbekistan. All
these considerations being taken into account, it was therefore found necessary at this stage for the
Government to underwrite the leasing arrangements. The option retained in the project provides such
support for a few years, during which the franchising arrangements would be strengthened, financial
sustainability established, and leasing experience gained, so as to later provide a satisfactory basis for
purely private financing arrangements.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
T                 .Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                        Project                   (PSR) Ratings
_________________________________  .  __________________________   (Bank-financed   projects   on _ly
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                       Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Strengthening the regulatory and    Kazakhstan Urban Transport          S              S
institutional framework for urban bus  Project (completed)
services, improving cost recovery,
strengthening transport operators, and
improving the condition of the bus
fleets.
-9-



Same as above (except for the     Russia Urban Transport Project     U             U
strengthening of the regulatory   (on-going)
framework).
Same as above (except for the     Budapest Urban Transport          HS             U
strengthening of the regulatory   Project (on-going)
framwork).
Same as above (except for the     Turkmenistan Urban Transport       S             U
strengthening of the regulatory   (on-going)
framework).
Same as above (except for improving   Kyrgyzstan Urban Transport
the condition of the bus fleets).  (planned)
Other development agencies
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank is playing an important role in the improvement of urban transport services in Central and
Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union. Past and present Bank projects have made important
contributions towards these objectives. However, the experience has underscored (to varying degrees) the
following key issues: (i) the speed with which sector reforms are likely to progress depends on the
Government's understanding, commitment, and ownership of the reform program; (ii) project execution
agencies generally have a weak implementation capacity, and have been slow in gaining familiarity with
Bank procurement procedures; (iii) insufficient attention has usually been given to the maintenance of the
vehicles acquired through the project; (iv) State-owned enterprises have generally been slow to understand
and accept their deficiencies in management and financial practices and need support to implement
corrective measures; (v) financial problems (especially those related to fare policies and compensation for
special fares which are politically sensitive) have been the most difficult to address, particularly in the
context of drastic fiscal constraints and decreasing per capita income; and (vi) inadequate fiscal and
political decentralization may be an impediment to urban transport reforms.
The unsatisfactory ratings of the Russia and Budapest Urban Transport Projects are due to circumstances
which in essence are independent of these projects. In Russia, a disagreement between the project cities and
the Central Government over the repayment of their subsidiary loans (which have increased substantially
after the mid 1998 devaluation of the Rouble) has led to the dismissal of the Project Implementation Unit
and a stop in project implementation. A new PIU has now been nominated, part of the loan undisbursed
balance (US$25 million) has been cancelled, and the remainder of the project is being restructured with a
view to completing it by the middle of 2001. In the case of the Budapest Urban Transport Project, the
unsatisfactory allocation of responsibilities between the Budapest municipality and the Central Government
over fare policies and provision of subsidies (as mentioned in (vi) above), as well as political discord
between the two, has resulted in the main public transport enterprise of Budapest, BKV, being underfunded
and not able to meet a main (operating ratio) loan covenant.
To the extent possible, the design of this project incorporates these lessons of experience. The Government
has demonstrated in particular an up-front commitment to sector reforms by implementing in the past two
- 1 0 -



and a half years major changes in the institutional, financial, and regulatory framework for urban transport
services. It has also agreed to review lessons of experience with these reforms and formulate further
improvements in the organization and regulation of the sector on an annual basis with the Bank. New
vehicles would not be provided directly to State-owned enterprises, but would be made available to both
private and State-owned operators through a commercially based leasing scheme. Maintenance of the new
vehicles would be entrusted to a separate maintenance contractor. Technical assistance would be provided
as part of project implementation to strengthen the management and financial systems of the bus companies
and the planning and procurement capacity of the Project Implementation Unit. Measures to improve
financial sustainability of urban transport services have also been implementated prior to the project's final
approval.
The design of the leasing scheme also uses the experience of IFC with leasing in Central Asia in general
and Uzbekistan in particular. New bus leasing operations will be run by an existing organization (UATT)
rather than a new one which may have been very slow to start. UATT was selected because of its
experience with urban transport operations and contract administration, and will be strengthened by
technical assistance. Also, giving the present lack of bus dealerships and maintenance capability in
Uzbekistan, operating leases rather than finance leases will be used.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government is strongly committed to making the urban passenger transport sector commercial,
competitive, and financially sustainable. For this purpose, as explained earlier, it has implemented some
major policy changes in the past few years. In particular, it has:
(i) enacted a framework law on urban transport (April 1997) creating the basis for competitively tendered
bus route franchises as well as decentralization of urban passenger transport planning and monitoring
fLnctions to each City Administration;
(ii) introduced the franchising system on a few bus routes in the five pilot cities late in 1997, including
needed institutional arrangements, and designed and implemented progressive refinements since then;
(iii) progressively extended the franchising system to cover all urban transport services throughout the
country, except Tashkent, by the end of 1999;
(iv) established in 1998 the Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport to rationalize the licensing
of transport operators and progressively take over road transport sector regulation;
(v) encouraged the private sector to develop associations and participate in tendering for bus route
franchises; and
(vi) issued a strategy, acceptable to the Bank, for development of urban passenger transport services in the
project cities in the next five years.
The reform process has been led by the Cabinet of Ministers. Numerous meetings have been held over the
past two and a half years with staff at the regional (Oblast) and city (Hakimiyat) levels and with the private
bus operators to explain the reform agenda and discuss and assist with implementation of refonrs.
The Government has also shown its commitment to the project itself The project is the result of a request
by the Government to the Bank to design a program for improving urban transport operations in all main
- 1 1 -



cities in the country except the capital, Tashkent. Project preparation was supported by a PPF advance.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The role of the Bank in Uzbekistan's urban transport sector is essentially two fold. First, drawing upon its
international experience and particularly its experience in working with other CIS countries, the Bank is in
a strong position to assist the Government in formulating the strategies necessary to ensure that efficient
and sustainable public transport services are available to city residents. Second, the Bank can assist the
Government in implementing these strategies through direct Bank analytical support,
supervision/enhancement of the technical advice and training provided by consultants through the project,
and helping correct the course of action whenever necessary in view of the experience.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$7.8 million; ERR = 60.4 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The economic analysis of the investment in the new buses compared the "with project" solution with the
alternative of delaying investment in new vehicles for three years and providing a reduced level of service,
eighty per cent, in the interim with the existing fleet at relatively high maintenance costs. This alternative
was selected as it is the most stringent from the economic standpoint.
The main quantifiable economic benefits accounted for were benefits due to savings in time for passengers,
and operational and maintenance cost savings for bus operators. Maintenance cost savings were estimated
by using costs required to maintain a vehicle in good condition over its economic life. Also included in the
analysis were small benefits from improved comfort levels and reduction in overcrowding. Other benefits,
naamely reduction in unreliability of service and environmental improvements, were not quantified. Due to
lack of reliable information on which to base travel growth estimates, travel demand was assumed to
remain constant over the investment horizon.
A comprehensive financial and economic model was used for the economic analysis. The net present values
were calculated from incremental costs and benefits of the proposed investments. The overall net present
value of investment in new buses is US$7.8 m, based on a discount rate of 12%. The ERR for the
investment in the new buses is 60.4%. On a city by city basis, the results were as follows:
Sarnarkand   Bukhara     Almalyk      Namangan   Nukus          Overall
New vehicles
NPV US$ (m) 2.6           1.9          1.0         1.1           1.2          7.8
ERR %        59           60           58          66           62           60
Sensitivity analysis showed that the project justification is robust and the economic return remains well
above the assumed opportunity cost of capital. If capital costs increase by 20%, savings in maintenance
costs decrease by 30%, value of time is reduced by 50%, and there is no generated demand due to new and
rehabilitated buses, economic rates of return remain well above 12%, as shown in Annex 4.
- 12 -



The investment in bus rehabilitation, which is a much smaller part of the project was also analyzed. The
economic rate of return for the rehabilitation of the Turkish made Belde buses, which accounts for the bulk
of the rehabilitation undertaken under the project, was found to be slightly above 15%, as also shown in
Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 2.7 million; FRR = 9.2 % (see Annex 4)
A financial analysis of the bus leasing operations was carried out on the basis of relatively conservative
assumptions regarding maintenance cost, depreciation, and cost of funds (which are the main costs by far in
operating leases). Simplified assumptions were also made regarding the development of the leasing
business. In addition, the analysis was carried out for a homogeneous fleet of nine meter buses. Revenues
(lease rentals) were estimated on the basis of a standard model used by leasing companies known to the
project preparation consultants. This model produced monthly lease rentals varying from about US$2,300,
the first year, to about US$1,800 the fifth year. Down time due to maintenance or unused time between
leases was assumed to be 6%. On this basis, the leasing scheme turns a profit every year. The cumulated
funds balance over the first five years, taking account of losses during the scheme's settling-in period before
operations start, would be about US$3.3 million.
The calculation was carried out in US$ under the assumption that the lessees would make payment to the
lessor, UATT, in Soums at the official exchange rate. This is acceptable since UATT's main costs (spare
parts, interest payments, depreciation) will de facto be in US$ expressed in Soums at the official exchange
rate. All fluctuations in the official exchange rate would be passed on to the lessees. As could be expected,
the profitability of the scheme over a five-year period depends very much on the ability of UATT's clients
(the urban transport operators) to pay adjusted rentals in case of currency devaluation. This in turn would
depend on the clients' ability to raise passenger transport fares above the rate of inflation. During the past
two years, the Government has been willing to regularly increase passenger fares to meet rising operating
costs, and it may be assumed that this will continue. However, in case of a major devaluation, it is likely
that, in order to cushion the social impact, UATT will be able to raise lease rentals only gradually. A two
year grace period in the repayment by UATT and Uzavtotrans of their subsidiary loan from MOF would
provide a financial cushion which would allow UATT to maintain liquidity during the price adjustment
period. The down side of this cushion is that the net worth of the leasing scheme at the time of its
privatization (expected to take place in 2004) could be negative. The implied subsidy would not be felt by
the State until later because of the long grace and repayment periods of the Bank loan to the Government.
The lease rentals produced by the above mentioned model and validated by the analysis, were then used to
calculate the operating cost of a standard nine meter bus in urban transport service. Operating costs were
based on actual costs of the JSCs regarding fuel and lubricants, tires, personnel, and overheads. Assuming
that each nine meter bus would carry on average 1100 passengers per day (which is realistic if bus routes
are properly designed and operations adequately organized), the cost per passenger trip would be US$0.12
in 1999 terms, an average result for a country with very low labor costs. At the official exchange rate in
May 1999, this was equivalent to about 13 Soums per trip, well below the then prevalent fare of 20 Soums,
which provides an acceptable margin for profits and risks. These results would not be affected in
substance by a decision to procure, instead of nine meter buses, a mix of seven, nine, and twelve meter
buses as anticipated earlier in project preparation, or only seven meter buses as recently decided by
Uzavtotrans.
The analysis therefore shows the leasing scheme to be financially sound. The main risk relates to currency
devaluation.
- 13 -



Fiscal Impact:
The project would not result in increased recurrent costs for the Government as project goods would be
operated by commercial companies. However, the project could impact Government finances in two ways.
First, as the system of compensation for fare exemptions and discounts has been rationalized, the
Government may have to spend more than it has in the recent past on compensation payments to transport
operators. The total amount of compensation that will need to be provided in the next few years by the
central Government may be estimated at US$1.0 million equivalent annually for the five cities, which is
very small compared to the State budget. Second, as explained above, gradual adjustment of lease rentals
in case of a major currency devaluation, would reduce the net value that the Government would realize
from the leasing scheme at the time of its privatization. The Government has the ability to control both
impacts by better targetting fare privileges and by allowing speedier fare adjustments.
3. Technical:
Uzavtotrans and its consultants carried out during project preparation and appraisal an analysis of options
regarding the size and technical standards of the buses to be procured, and the pros and cons of procuring
one single bus type compared to a mix of different bus types. This included a review of the international
bus market and thorough surveys of passenger demand in the five project cities. On this basis, it was
agreed to procure a medium size (about seven meter) bus with simple and proven technologies, and
technical standards which minimize the costs of operating and maintaining the buses while ensuring that a
satisfactory level of comfort is offered to the passengers. This selection is well justified. To limit the
purchase to one bus model would make procurement easier and faster, which is important given the lack of
expericnce in Uzbekistan with international competitive procurement and the present shortage of urban
buses in the project cities. It would also ensure that there is a fleet of identical buses in each city, which is
large enough to achieve scale economies in maintenance. In addition, medium size buses are easier to
operate and would put lower financial requirements (in terms of down payments and collateral for example)
on small private operators.
Draft bidding documents, including technical specifications, have already been prepared taking into account
the experience gained in previous bus procurements under Bank financed projects. Before launching the
bidding process, the bidding documents would need to be revised in order to incorporate the results of an
on-going consultation with manufacturers of the selected bus type, as well as provisions for maintenance
services to be provided by the winning bidder during and after the warranty period.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The distribution of responsibilities for carrying out the project is presented in Section C4. The project
executing agency, Uzavtotrans, is a large organization issued from the Uzbek Ministry of Automobile
Transport. It is highly decentralized with a small central office controlling more than 250 autonomous joint
stock companies. It is also the main custodian of expertise in urban transport services in the country.
Throughout the transition period, since 1992, despite extremely difficult financial and operational
constraints, Uzavtotrans has maintained a high degree of organization and discipline. It has managed to
retain a good part of its staff, usually skilled and competent, and these have succeeded in making ends meet
in sometimes admirable ways. Uzavtotrans, however, still has management weaknesses, and its
information systems are sorely lacking. The project includes assistance to address these problems within
the JSCs.
- 14 -



UATT, which would be in charge of procuring project goods and managing the bus leasing scheme, is
Uzavtotrans' subsidiary organization for all procurement activities. Having to deal with a very large
number of suppliers (many of them outside Uzbekistan) and clients, and the intricate payment systems used
in the Former Soviet Union, UATT is organized, well versed in financial matters, and has the potential to
grow. It also has a good knowledge of the passenger transport business, although no previous experience
in the operating lease business (there is not a single operating lease company in Uzbekistan). UATT will
therefore need to be supported by technical assistance, continuously during the first year of project
implementation and at regular intervals thereafter. This assistance will also train UATT's staff and prepare
the manual of operational and financial procedures and policies mentioned earlier in Section C4. This
manual will rule the way in which the leasing operations will be carried out. As mentioned earlier, also,
UATT's financial statements with regards to bus leasing, as well as the degree to which it will have
complied with the stipulations of the manual, will be audited every six months during the first two years of
the project and annually thereafter.
An assessment of Uzavtotrans' and UATT's procurement capacity was carried out during project
preparation. Based on the assessment's findings, an action plan was prepared, which includes a schedule
for designation of procurement committees, definition of detailed internal procurement arrangements,
provision of training, and recruitment of international procurement assistance. The main objective of this
plan is to enhance Uzavtotrans' capacity to conduct competitive procurement and apply Bank procurement
guidelines under the project. The action plan was finalized and agreed upon with the Borrower during
Negotiations.
b. Project management:
The PIU is a newly created unit, and it lacks knowledge of the Bank procurement guidelines and practices,
as well as disbursement procedures. Although it has functioned well during the preparation of the project,
it will need to be strengthened for project implementation. Actions needed to do so were agreed at
Negotiations and loan effectiveness will be conditional on their implementation (Section C4). In addition,
the PIU (as well as UATT) will need assistance in project management, procurement, and contract
administration; this will be provided by a foreign consulting firm under the project.
It is proposed that the loan finance 100% of the PIU incremental operating costs during project
implementation. The rationale for this is the following: (i) there is doubt that, in this period of drastic
resource constraints, the PIU would be financed adequately if a share of its incremental operating costs is
left to local funding sources; (ii) satisfactory functioning of the PIU is critical for the sound and timely
implementation of the Project; (iii) PIU incremental operating costs are of the order of only 0.7% of total
project costs; (iv) these costs will decline considerably after the first three years of project implementation;
and (v) PIU incremental operating costs are costs to be incurred for the creation of capital assets, and
should be viewed as investment costs (in the same way as the costs of setting up the leasing unit), and not
as recurrent costs.
- 15 -



5. Social:
The project is expected to have a positive social impact since it will lower the cost and increase the quality
of a service, public transport, which the population of the five project cities considers as essential. In order
to assess the projects social impact, a social assessment (SA), including a household survey and a survey
of urban bus operators, was carried out in 1998 as part of project preparation. The SA was in particular
used to: (i) prepare a socio-economic profile of public transport users; (ii) identify travel behavior of
households and their valuation of time; (iii) assess public perception of service standards provided by
different transport modes; (iv) identify the most critical interventions to improve urban transport services,
and (v) assess specific concerns of the private bus operators in operating and maintaining large buses.
The household survey, which was carried out in Samarkand and Almalyk, indicated that about six per cent
of the average monthly family expenditure of $74 equivalent was spent on transportation. Work trips
constituted the largest share of bus passenger trips, followed by trips to the market. Affordability of
motorized transport emerged as one of the main concerns of passengers, especially lower income ones. This
concern was reflected in the high share of personal trips for which people preferred walking. The project
would potentially address this concern, as the vehicles to be provided would be medium size buses with a
lower cost per passenger than the minibuses which, in the past few years, have replaced the larger vehicles
while charging higher fares. This is of special interest as about 34 per cent of the surveyed population in
Samarkand and Almalyk has declared a monthly family expenditure below $36 equivalent. The project
would also improve the frequency and reliability of urban transport services which is generally essential to
facilitate people's mobility. The survey data also revealed that women walked more than men; to the extent
that larger vehicles are more affordable than smaller vehicles, the project is likely to benefit women as a
group.
It was agreed that, under the project, the social assessment would be repeated in 2002 in order to (i) update
knowledge of the social impact of urban transport in the project cities, and (ii) review changes resulting
from the project, particularly on the mobility of lower income groups and their access to jobs and social
services.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: B
As shown by an environmental analysis carried out during project preparation, the project would not result
in any major negative environmental impact. Instead, a number of environmental benefits are expected to be
realized as explained below. First, the current vehicle stock consists of end-of-life vehicles (LAZ, LiAZ,
PAZ, RAF, KAvZ, Ikarus and Belde) which are predominantly gasoline-powered engines (except for
Ikarus and Belde) with high emission levels. The project would provide new vehicles and therefore help
gradually decommission old vehicles. Each replacement vehicle has the potential to perform significantly
better in terms of emissions, noise and fuel consumption than the existing vehicles which it replaces.
Second, although each vehicle would operate more kilometers per annum due to higher availability, the
overall number of kilometers operated is unlikely to increase, if compared to a few years ago, so that
improved emission levels and fuel consumption would not be offset by increased use. Third, better
maintenance, supported by improved maintenance facilities and equipment, would ensure that existing
vehicles remain within their specifications throughout their operating life.
The generation of wastes such as scrap metals, used parts, tires, oils, and batteries (including in particular
those due to the decommissioning of old buses) is the main potential environmental concern related to the
project. There is a developed body of regulations and instructions in Uzbekistan regarding the disposal and
recycling of wastes in particular related to road transport vehicles, and these are known and implemented at
the local level. However, in the current context of resource shortages, there are shortcomings in
- 16 -



environmental practices, and some improvements would in any case be desirable. At Negotiations, the
Government agreed to prepare not later than December 31, 2000, an Environmental Management Plan.
(EMP), acceptable to the Bank, for the project, and to take actions for implementation of the EMP under a
timeframe agreed with the Bank. The EMP would comply with the requirements under Operational
Policy/Bank Procedures/Good Practices 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), and address, inter alia, the issue
of waste management. It would be available prior to arrival of the new buses and rehabilitation or repair of
the existing ones. The EMP would include a monitoring plan, the results of which would be summarized
annually in the PIU's project implementation progress reports.
As part of the technical assistance provided by the project, consultants would also help the Government
improve the recycling and recovery of urban transport related wastes in the five project cities. Their work
would include: (i) a review of existing waste management practices and the extent to which they comply
with environmental regulations; (ii) a review of recycling opportunities in terms of financial and
technological constraints; (iii) a review of the adequacy of concerned staff and facilities; and (iv) the
preparation of recommendations for improvements, and assistance in their implementation.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of the project would be the residents of the project cities. Their socio-economic
profile, urban transport needs, and views on priority improvements in the sector were analyzed through a
social assessment (see Section E 5 above).
b. Other key stakeholders:
State-owned and private urban transport operators have been consulted throughout project preparation,
especially in the assessment of their capabilities and the condition of their assets, and the identification of
priority investments. The social assessment included in particular a survey of private bus operators. The
project component for improving the institutional, financial, and regulatory framework for urban transport
services was also designed with the main stakeholder, the Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River
Transport, in consultation with the administrations of the project cities.
Participation of key stakeholders as well as academic institutions thoughout project preparation,
implementation, and operation has been, and is expected to continue, as presented in the Table below. The
social assessement has been the main vehicle for consulting with the residents of the project cities and the
academic institutions.
Preparation       Implementation        Operation
Beneficiaries/community          IS/CON             CON/COL            CON/COL
groups
Academic institutions             CON                 CON                 CON
Central and local governments    IS/CON/COL           COL                 COL
IS:    Information Sharing
CON: Consultation
- 17-



COL: Collaboration
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The long term sustainability of the main project investments would depend on the sustainability of the
urban transport sector in the project cities and, therefore, on the full implementation of the reforms which
the project would be promoting, particularly the financial reforms. This has been and would continue to be
the main focus of the Bank dialogue with the Government in the sector, especially through the annual
reviews of the franchising system. The Government policy in these regards is well spelled out in its urban
transport strategy statement of April 17, 2000. In the medium term, the sustainability of the investment in
the new buses would also depend on the quality of the operational and financial management of the leasing
scheme. This would be in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank. Preparation of
a manual of operational and financial policies and procedures, and establishment of financial management
systems for the leasing scheme, acceptable to the Bank, are conditions of disbursement of loan proceeds
allocated to the purchase of the new buses. The degree to which these policies and procedures are applied
would be subject to regular audits by independent auditors.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk         7777       Risk-Rting--      T     RXik Minimization Measure 
From Outputs to Objective
1. Insufficient political and institutional  S        1.1 Annual review of the franchising system.
will within the Government, Uzavtotrans,              1.2 Regular audits of the new bus leasing
and the transport operators to use the                scheme.
new/improved systems and procedures                   1.3 Bank continuous dialogue with senior
(for bus route franchising, bus leasing,              Government decision makers, particularly as
and enterprise management), and to fully              part of the implementation of the Government's
base decisions on their results.                      urban transport strategy statement.
1.4 Dissemination of information on
international best practice and potential benefits
from taking action.
2. Inadequate increase in transport fares   S         2.1 Same as 1. 1, 1.3, and 1.4 above
following a devaluation of the national
currency.
3. Formal and informal barriers to entry    M         3.1 Same as 1.3 and 1.4 above.
into the urban transport business.
4. Constraints put on entrepreneurship      S         4.1 Same as 1.3 and 1.4 above.
and investment in the sector by the                   4.2 Commitment by the Government to provide
Government's general economic policies,               all necessary authorizations to the vehicle
and restricted access to spare parts for              maintenance enterprise(s) for the import of
bus maintenance.                                      goods necessary for the maintenance of the new
buses.
From Components to Outputs
- 18-



1. Disruptive reorganization of             N         1.1 Bank continuous dialogue with senior
Uzavtotrans, and the JSCs and the City                Government decison-makers on the efficiency of
Administrations in the five project cities.           administrative organization, and the benefits of
better corporate governance.
2. Low willingness of managers and staff    M         2.1 Mid-term project implementation review.
of the Central and City Administrations,              2.2 Dissemination of information on
Uzavtotrans, and the JSCs to learn new                international best practices and potential
knowledge and to implement new systems                benefits from change.
and procedures.                                       2.3 Bank continous dialogue with the managers
of the concerned organizations.
3. Inability of sector organizations to     S         3.1 Same as 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3 above.
retain or hire competent staff in sufficient
numbers.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are risks associated with the ownership of the new buses and management of the leasing scheme
being entrusted to a State corporation, Uzavtotrans. However, other options, especially that of providing
Bank funds to a joint stock leasing company owned by commercial investors (especially commercial banks)
have been considered and not found feasible at this time. The risks of State ownership would be mitigated
by the establishment of strict operational and financial policies and procedures, the auditing of the extent to
which these would be applied, the contracting out of bus maintenance, and the privatization of the new
buses and the leasing scheme after four years.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i) PIU to be strengthened with structure, functions, and staffing acceptable to the Bank.
(ii) Independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to be selected to undertake the audit of the project
financial statements for the first year of project implementation.
(iii) Signature of a subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to the Bank, between the Ministry of Finance
and Uzavtotrans.
2. Other [classiiy according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition of Disbursement (for loan proceeds allocated to the purchase of new buses)
Preparation of a manual of operational and financial policies and procedures, and establishment of a
financial management system, acceptable to the Bank, for the new bus leasing scheme.
Loan Covenants
- 19 -



(i) PIU to be maintained during the entire life of the project with funds, facilities, and resources,
including qualified and experienced staff, necessary, as may be deemed by the Bank, for successful
implementation of the project.
(ii) Uzavtotrans to carry out an action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the PIU's
financial management system in order to enable the PIU, not later than by June 30, 2001, to prepare
quarterly Project Management Reports acceptable to the Bank.
(iii) The Government, (a) by November 30, each year starting in year 2000, to review the technical and
economic efficiency of the urban bus route franchising system in the project cities and discuss the
result of such review with the Bank, and (b) by March 31, the following year, to issue instructions,
acceptable to the Bank, to the City Tendering Commissions in the project cities, to improve the
methodology for evaluation of bids for bus route franchises, the terms of the bus route franchise
contracts, and the procedures for supervision of these contracts.
(iv) New buses to be leased to private and State-owned transport operators in accordance with
operational and financial policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(v) New buses to be maintained in accordance with a maintenance contract acceptable to the Bank.
(vi) The Government to provide all necessary authorizations to the vehicle maintenance enterprise(s)
for the import of spare parts and supplies necessary for maintenance of the new buses during the
post-warranty period.
(vii) UATT's financial statements related to the bus leasing operations and the extent to which UATT
has consistently applied its operational and financial policies and procedures, to be audited every six
months during the first two years of project implementation and every year thereafter by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
(viii) The Government to prepare not later than by December 31, 2003, a plan acceptable to the Bank
for privatization of the new bus fleet and the leasing organization in the project cities and take actions
for the implementation of this plan under a timeframe agreed with the Bank.
(ix) The Government to prepare not later than by December 31, 2000, an Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) acceptable to the Bank, and take actions for the implementation of the EMP under a
timeframe agreed with the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Draft bidding documents for the purchase of new buses have already been prepared, but need to be revised,
particularly in order to incorporate the results of an on-going consultation with bus manufacturers (see
Section E 3). This is expected to be completed shortly.
- 20 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Dg 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
(  L_  \                     _   _ k      __                    _
Jean-  arles Crochet              Eva Molnar                         Kiyoshi Kodera //i
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country ManagerlDirector
- 21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UZBEKISTAN: Urban Transport Project
4    e Perff   ance'
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Removing the            1.1 Increased level of cost    1. Bank economic and sector  1. Complementary measures
inefficiencies in resource  recovery.                 work.                      are taken in other spheres
utilization in the municipal   1.2 Strengthened institutional                    (agriculture, credit, efficiency
services, infrastructure, and   capacity.                                        of markets, governance, etc) to
the social services.       1.3 Introduction of                                   raise the living standards of
competition between service                          the poor.
providers and increased
privatization of services.
- 22 -



Key Performnance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. Efficient and sustainable   1.1 Supply of urban passenger 1. Bank supervision missions  1. Senior decision makers are
urban passenger transport    transport services in the five   assessments.        convinced of the effectiveness
services in Samarkand,     project cities is adequate to                          of the changes introduced
Namangan, Bukhara, Nukus,  satisfy demand.             2. Updated social assessment. through the project and
and Almalik.                                                                      willing to scale-up these
1.2 Urban transport operators 3. Annual survey of urban  changes to other cities and
in the five cities adequately   transport operators.  possibly other sectors.
manage their operations and
maintain their vehicles.
1.3 Bus route franchises in
the five cities are allocated on
the basis of a sound
competitive bidding process.
1.4 City administrations in
the five cities take sound
decisions regarding the (i)
planning of their respective
urban transport systems and
(ii) the administration of
franchise contracts.
1.5 Efficient urban transport
operators in the five cities
fully recover their costs
(including the cost of
privileged passengers) and
generate a reasonable profit.
- 23 -



Key P,e rftKormance
Herarchy of Objectives                  tors    _     Moniorg & Evaluation    Critical Assumpions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. New modem urban buses   1.1 About 350 new buses are  1. PIU quarterly and annual   1. There is the political and
are made available to urban   available by mid 2002.   reports.                   institutional will within the
transport operators        1.2 Sound leasing                                      Govemment, Uzavtotrans, and
arrangements are in place to  2. Bank supervision missions  the transport operators to use
provide the buses on a full cost assessments.         the new/improved systems and
recovery basis by mid 2001.                            procedures (for bus route
franchising, bus leasing, and
enterprise management), and
to fully base decisions on their
results.
2. Increased availability of    2.1 About 60 existing "Belde"                     2. The cost impact of a
existing vehicle fleets    buses are rehabilitated by end                         devaluation of the national
2002.                                                  currency are reflected into
2.2 Most existing buses with                          transport fares within a
remaining service life are                            reasonable period of time.
operable by mid 2002.
2.3 Daily Availability of
operable buses is increased
from about 60% presently to
75% by end 2002.
3. Increased capability of  3.1 Better financial                                  3. Entry into the urban
urban transport operators.    management and maintenance                          transport business remains
systems/procedures are in                              widely open.
place in the JSCs by end of
project.                                               4. General economic policies
3.2 Sufficient tools and                               do not restrain
equipment are available to the                         entrepreneurship and
JSCs for maintenance of their                         investment in the sector, and
bus fleets by end of project.                         in particular, do not restrict
3.3 About one hundred and                              access to spare parts for bus
fifty staff of JSCs and private                        maintenance.
operators are trained in
financial management, vehicle
maintenance, and bus route
franchising by end of project.
- 24 -



4. A sound bus route          4.1 Sound systems and
franchising system is in place  procedures are in place in the
city transport departments to
(i) plan urban transport
services; (ii) competitively
tender bus route franchises;
(iii) compensate urban
transport operators for the
transport of privileged
passengers; and (iv)
administer franchises by end
of project.
4.2 About seventy five CTC,
CTD, and UAART staff are
trained in subjects (i) to (iv)
above by end of project.
- 25 -



W0X*                  ~~~~Key Peroiiiaice
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Provision of new buses and $23.46 million           1. PIU quarterly and annual   1. There is no disruptive
establishment of a leasing                             reports.                   reorganization of Uzavtotrans,
scheme.                                                                           and the JSCs and the City
2. Bank supervision missions  Administrations of the five
assessments.               project cities.
2. Rehabilitation and repair of $4.83 million                                     2. Management and staff of
existing buses.                                                                   the Central and City
aAdministrations,
Uzavtotrans, and the JSCs are
willing to learn new
knowledge and implement
new systems and procedures.
3. Provision of technical  $1.42 million                                          3. Competent staff in
assistance, training, and                                                         sufficient numbers are
equipment for strengthening                                                       retained or hired, as
urban transport operators                                                         necessary.
4. Provision of technical  $0.32 million
assistance, training, and
equipment for improving the
regulatory, institutional, and
financial framework for urban
transport services
5. Project management      $0.63 million
- 26 -



Annex 2: Project Description
UZBEKISTAN: Urban Transport Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$23.46 million
Provision of New Buses and Establishment of a Leasing Scheme:
1. In recent years, the available fleet of medium size and large urban buses in the five project cities has
been declining at about 10% per annum because of lack of funds for capital replacement and maintenance.
On average, such buses are nearly 10 year old, and in most State enterprises, nearly two-thirds of the bus
fleet exceeds the planned life of 8-10 years, and about 30% of the fleet is over 12 years old. As a result,
there is a shortage of operable buses, which has constrained residents' mobility and encouraged the use of
mini- and micro-buses which are far more expensive to operate on bus routes with sizable passenger
demand. The objective of this project component is therefore to provide new buses to satisfy the estimated
passenger demand on these bus routes. Calculation of requirements for new buses in each of the cities,
prepared by project preparation consultants, has followed three steps: (i) estimation of the total number of
buses required to satisfy passenger demand in the base year (1998); (ii) estimation of the total number of
currently operable buses, including those which can be returned to service with rehabilitation and body
overhaul; and (iii) calculation of requirements for new buses by subtracting (ii) from (i). With relatively
conservative estimates of passenger demand and assuming a high utilization factor, it was concluded that
the total requirement was for about three hundred and fifty seven meter equivalent new buses. The total
cost of these buses (including contingencies) is estimated to be $ 20.45 million (net of custom duties, local
taxes, and VAT, as is the case for all costs in the project cost estimate). Draft technical specifications have
been prepared which emphasize sturdiness, proven and simple technologies, and easy maintenance.
Assumed unit prices are based on discussions with manufacturers.
2. The buses will be owned by Uzavtotrans and leased to private and State-owned operators on a
commercial basis, including especially full cost recovery. Uzavtotrans' procurement unit, Uzavtotrans
Taminot (UATT), will have responsibility for leasing and maintenance of the buses, and, therefore, will
need to establish the leasing scheme in detail at the beginning of the project. This will include among other
things: (i) preparation of an operations manual covering in particular policies and procedures for selection
of lessees, calculation of lease rentals, and administration of lease. contracts; (ii) establishment of
appropriate accounting, financial management, and information systems for the bus leasing operations; (iii)
developing procedures for supervising the maintenance of buses; and (iv) developing a small group of
competent staff and strengthening UATT's management capability. The bus leasing operations will also be
submitted to a regular technical and financial audit every six months during the first two years of the
project and annually thereafter. For thes purposes, the project includes the provision of technical assistance
and training services as well as office equipment. The cost estimate is $0.58 million for the services and
$0.06 million for the office equipment
3.     The buses will be maintained under a maintenance contract with the bus supplier. This contract
will be paid out of the bus leasing revenues. However, in order to limit risks to the supplier and ensure the
lowest possible maintenance costs, the project includes the setting up of the maintenance centers (including
provision of facilities and workshop equipment), and the establishment of an initial stock of spare parts.
The cost estimate is $0.29 million for the facilities, $0.29 million for the workshop equipment, and $1.52
million for the spare parts.
4.     The project also includes services for (i) ensuring that the new buses are manufactured in
-27 -



accordance with stipulated quality assurance procedures and conform to the technical specifications; and
(ii) preparing a plan for privatization of the new bus fleet and leasing scheme before December 31, 2003.
The cost estimate for these services is $0.27 million.
Project Component 2 - US$4.83 million
Rehabilitation and Repair of Existing Buses
4.     Capital Repair. As a result of insufficient preventive maintenance in the past, the operating costs
of buses have increased while their performance and availability have decreased substantially. "Capital
repair" (i.e. a full rehabilitation) is therefore necessary to restore the full technical performance and earning
potential of the vehicles and reduce the cost of operation. The viability of such an exercise depends both on
the anticipated cost of capital repair in relation to the replacement price of a new vehicle, and age of the
vehicle in relation to its potential economic life-cycle. Basic judgement used in estimating the number of
buses to be rehabilitated is that any bus of CIS origin that has alteady been in operation for half its optimal
life would not be economic to rehabilitate, whereas the breakeven point for non-CIS bus comes at 60% of
its life-cycle.
5.     Given the types of buses operating in each of the participating cities and their age profile, it is
estimated that mostly Turkish Belde buses, procured in 1993, will fall within the economic criteria defined
above. Performance of these buses has been hampered by lack of spare parts throughout their life. It is
estimated that capital repair can be done to 60 Belde buses at an average cost of US$16,500 each. 17 buses
of 7m length can also be rehabilitated at an average cost of US$6,200 each. Total cost of capital repair
(including contingencies) is estimated at US$1.15 million.
6.     Intermediate OverhauL The objective of intermediate overhaul is to raise the standard of
presentation and comfort of the bus in order to increase its level of passenger acceptability. It would
include such items as: repairing and re-upholstering all seats, repairing and re-covering floor and steps,
reinstating all stations and grabrails, repairing door operating mechanisms, repairing cracked windows and
windscreens and repainting inside and outside. Such works are relatively labor intensive and can be carried
out comparatively cheaply. The total cost of intermediate overhaul on the existing bus fleet in the five cities
is estimated to be US$1.27 million.
8.     Spare parts for emergency repairs and reconstitution of an adequate stock This component
includes spare parts to quickly return existing buses to service and improve their service conditions. For
lack of funds, JSCs have kept expenditures on spare parts to a minimum for more. than five years, with the
bulk of maintenance expenditure being deferred as long as possible. As a result, the operable bus fleet has
decreased to record low numbers, and reliability has been very poor. Maintenance activities in all JSCs are
also supported by negligible stock levels and spare parts are acquired as and when needed, which results in
unnecessary delays. The approach to estimate spare parts requirements includes: (i) preparation of a
schedule of missing parts for all vehicles still within their economic life; and (ii) identification of parts
requirements for the planned maintenance program and predicted unit failures in relation to planned fleet
activity. The total costs of required spare parts is $ 2.42 million.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.42 million
Strengthening of Urban Transport Operators.
9.     The project includes the provision of consultants' services and training to (i) improve the financial
and maintenance management of the JSCs and the private transport operators (in particular their
accounting and cost estimating systems, ability to prepare bids for bus route franchises, and vehicle
- 28 -



maintenance policies and organization); and (ii) design and implement measures to improve environmental
practices of the JSCs and related organizations, including in particular the recycling of materials and safe
disposal of wastes. The estimate is $0.23 million.
10.    To complement these services and increase the quality and efficiency of the JSCs' vehicle
maintenance operations, the project includes (i) improvement of workshop buildings (at a total estimated
cost of $0.52 million), (ii) provision of tools and workshop equipment (at an estimated cost of about
$30,000 for each of the seventeen JSCs operating in the five project cities, or $0.52 million in total) and
(iii) provision of office equipment and software (at a total estimated cost of $0.16 million).
Project Component 4 - US$0.32 million
Improvement of the Institutional, Financial, and Regulatory Framework for Urban Transport
Services
11.   The project includes consultants' services and training to (i) help the Central Government improve
urban transport policies and regulations, assist city administrations in the management of urban transport,
and monitor developments in the sector; (ii) improve the capabilities of the city transport departments
(CTDs) of the five project cities in all their activities, in particular the collection of data, planning of urban
transport investments, designing of bus routes, administration and supervision of the franchising system,
and improvement of fare policies; and (iii) update the social assessment which was carried out in 1998, in
order to deepen the CTDs' knowledge of the population's urban transport needs. The estimated cost of
these services is $0,23 million.
12.    To strengthen the CTDs, the project also includes the provision of office equipment and software
for an estimated cost of $0.09 million.
Project Component 5 - US$0.63 million
Project Management
13.    In order to help the PIU procure goods and services for the project, administer contracts, improve
its financial management systems, and generally manage the project, the project includes consultants'
services and training for an estimated cost of $0.35 million and office equipment and software for an
estimated cost of $0.06 million.
14.   The project also includes the incremental activities of the PIU related to project management
(estimated to cost about $0.23 million) comprising in particular office rental, operation and maintenance of
office equipment, travel, provision of utility services, communications, and supplies, audit of project
accounts, and provision of adequate staff, based on an annual budget acceptable to the Bank.
-29 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UZBEKISTAN: Urban Transport Project
I. Provision of New Buses and Establishment of a Leasing   0.36         19.99        20.35
Scheme for these Buses.
2. Rehabilitation and Repair of Existing Buses.            1.07          3.13          4.20
3. Strengthening of Urban Transport Operators.             0.48          0.75          1.23
4. Improvement of the Institutional, Financial, and Regulatory  0.03     0.24          0.27
Framework for Urban Transport Services.
5. Project Management.                                     0.20          0.35          0.55
6. Refunding of PPF Advance                                0.00          0.50          0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                        2.14         24.96         27.10
Physical Contingencies                                    0.21          2.50          2.71
Price Contingencies                                       0.10          1.25          1.35
Total Project Costs               2.45        28.71         31.16
Front-end fee                     0.29         0.29
Total Financing Required               2.45         29.00         31.45
All costs are net of custom duties, local taxes, and VAT.
- 30 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
UZBEKISTAN: Urban Transport Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
1. The two main project components for which an economic analysis was undertaken are: (i) bus
rehabilitation (or "capital repair"), and (ii) purchase of new vehicles, in the five project cities of
Samarkand, Namangan, Bukhara, Nukus, and Almalyk. The economic analysis focused on the calculation
and comparison of costs and benefits brought about via rehabilitation and purchase of new vehicles for
public transport. Urban public transport in other urban areas would not be affected by these investments,
though the sector will benefit from the regulatory and institutional changes that the project is expected to
bring about. The main results of the analysis are presented below.
Economic Analysis of Bus rehabilitation
2. For the economic analysis of the rehabilitation of the existing vehicles owned by the JSCs in the five
cities, the age and mechanical condition of the buses in the five cities was first assessed. Life cycles of each
of the vehicle types was then estimated under the two scenarios of preventive maintenance and corrective
repair; variations were included for corrosive repair in Bukhara and Nukus. The financial costs of
rehabilitation are presented in Table 4.1. For each of the vehicles, the following scenarios were compared:
(i) capital repair to allow completion of economic life, (ii) operate as is for three more years and then
replace, (iii) replace immediately. Option (ii) was not economic and therefore discarded. The results of the
cost-benefit analysis, based on a comparison of (i) and (iii), are shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.1: Financial cost of rehabilitation (US$ '000)
Vehicle Type             Number                    Total Rehabilitation Cost
Belde                    60                        918.0
PAZ                      22                        136.4
LAZ                      28                        274.4
Total                    110                       1328.8
Table 4.2: Economic Analysis of Bus Rehabilitation
NPV ('000 soums)            ERR 
PAZ      LAZ       Belde    PAZ       LAZ      Belde
Samarkand                   4,471     11,913    14985    24.9     28.4      15.2
Bukhara                     1,849    24,348              37.5     28.8
Almalyk                     1,677     3,096    4,579     37.5     29        15.8
Namangan                                       14,653                       15.8
Nukus                       5,338     6,823              18.6     44.5     _
- 31 -



Economic Analysis of New Buses
3. The following scenarios were considered as plausible alternatives for the "without project" case. The
first alternative was to assume that the enterprises would be able to replace their fleets in three years,
operating at the current service levels in the interim and continuing to bear high maintenance costs. The
second alternative allowed for a reduced service level of 80% with the existing fleet, and assumed that the
vehicle fleets would be replaced in 2003. The third alternative assumed that the transport enterprises would
be unable to find resources for fleet renewal and the decline in enterprise service would be compensated by
a private sector expansion of minibuses. A comparison of the "without project" options
showed the second option to be the most stringent; this has therefore been used as the "without project"
case.
4. On the basis of the above mentioned values and assumptions, the economic evaluation of the project
yields an economic rate of return of 60.4%. The net present values, at a 12 percent discount rate, amounts
to 1.4 billion Soums. the results are robust to major changes in the assumptions for the economic prices.
Investment in new vehicles has been evaluated separately for each vehicle type, and for each city. Each of
the investments is individually viable - the individual returns vary between 45 to 80%. Table 4.3
summarizes the results of the incremental costs and benefits, both financial and economic. This analysis
was carried out assuming that the new vehicles would be a mix of seven, nine, and twelve meter buses as
was anticipated at that time. The results are not affected in substance by Uzavtotrans' recent decision to
purchase only seven meter buses.
Table 4.3: Financial and Economic Analysis of New Buses
Financial Benefits           Economic Benefits
City                         NPV ('000      ERR (%)        NPV ('000      ERR(%)
I_______-____                 Soums)                       Soums)
Samarkand     7 m            48,167         41             62,572         49.8
9_ 9m         298,628        46.7           377,441        56.3
12m           11,059         67.8           26,244         89.8
Bukhara        7m            27,111         64.6           31,330         75.2
9 m           68,953         37.9           91,471         47.6
12m           192,036        58             217,566        70.7
Almalyk       7 m            17,837         51.9           21,500         60.8
9 m            117,300       46.9           148,006        56.6
12m           3,051          45.4           8,341          63.1
Namangan       7 m           58,035         41.2           74,564         49.4
9 m           93,182         49.9           115,700        59.8
12m           7,626          144.7          14,991         204.8
Nukus          7 m           15,304         27             22,536         34.9
9 m           20,476         57.4           24,570         68.7
12m           154,270        62.6           171,509        78.6
Total         _              1,133,035      49.3           1,408,341      60.4
(1) NPV is calculated at a discount rate of 12%.
The financial values are those which are the basis of the economic analysis.
Main Assumptions:
- 32 -



5. The methodology and key assumptions used in the analysis to estimate total fleet requirements and the
size of investment in rehabilitation versus new vehicles, and to calculate the economic benefits of these
investments are described below.
General Methodological Approach
6. The economic analysis encompasses the comparison of incremental costs and benefits that the proposed
investment will bring about to targeted urban transport systems and consequently to the economy as a
whole. Both costs and benefits are calculated for the situation with and without the project to generate the
incremental costs and benefits over the life of the vehicles. Investments in capital repair and in purchase of
new buses are analyzed separately. The economic appraisal is conducted in domestic currency at the
domestic price level, as the project benefits are non-tradable. All conversions to dollar values have been
calculated at a shadow exchange rate of 180 Soums/$ to take account of the overvaluation of the domestic
currency at the time data was collected for the economic analysis (mid 1998).
7. The number of buses required to service travel demand, in the base year 1998, is calculated for each
city. This number is compared with the existing fleets of the transport enterprises and the supply of vehicles
by the private sector. It is assumed that half the supply of minibuses (including the "Damas", a 7 seat
microbus manufactured by Daewoo in Uzbekistan, which has become extensively used by private
operators), will be replaced by large buses. The number of buses in each city which can be economically
rehabilitated is subtracted from the total vehicles required to service demand; this yields the number of new
buses to be purchased
8. Alternative scenarios were developed for both capital repair and investment in new vehicles. The option
of capital repair to extend the operational life of the vehicles by at least three years was compared with the
alternative of replacing the vehicles immediately. Both the immediate replacement and rehabilitation
alternatives were compared with the base scenario of operating the existing vehicles for three more years
and then replacing them. For new investments, the without project scenario considers a delay in investment
of three years, during which time a reduced level of service, at 80%, is provided. The alternative of large
vehicles being replaced by minibuses, owned and operated by private entrepreneurs, was also considered.
This was rejected in favor of the selected without project case as the latter provided a more stringent test
against the with project case.
Travel Demand
9. Urban public transport in the project cities is provided by a mix of enterprise buses ranging from
seven to twelve meters, private sector minibuses, and trolleybuses. The estimated demand by mode is given
in table 4.4. The share of the private sector in public transport lies between 25% to 68%.
Table 4.4: Estimated passenger demand by mode ('000 /day), 1998
Samarkand     Bukhara           Almalyk           Namangan          Nukus
Buses            91.5           28.0              39.7              44.0              14.2
(enterprises)
Minibuses        104.3          69.5              16.5              52.1              52.0
(private sector)
- 33 -



Trolley buses    16.1           3.6               9.4               17.4              5.0
10. Ideally, the size of a city's vehicle fleet and its required growth over time would be derived from data
on travel demand, expected population and economic growth rates of the project cities, changes in income
distribution, motorization rate, land use planning and related changes in travel patterns. In practice, we do
not have reliable projections for these variables on either an aggregate urban or dis-aggregate city level.
Urban and rural populations are in flux, and for some time urban areas have been net losers of population
due to emigration. The economic crisis in Russia has had an adverse impact on the regional economy, with
differential and uncertain impacts on individual countries. Also no detailed passenger surveys had been
carried out by the time of the economic analysis (they were completed just before Negotiations). For these
reasons, assumptions used in the economic analysis are on the conservative side.
11. It is assumed that there is no growth in travel demand due to the above factors. The project focuses on
replacement of vehicles rather than fleet expansion. Generated demand has been included. It is estimated
that the higher quality of new and rehabilitated buses will have a modest impact on demand of 5% and 2%,
respectively. This demand is expected to be accommodated without running additional vehicles.
12. Based on available surveys, travel demand elasticity is taken to be 0.3. Since passenger travel is
sensitive to bus frequencies, a frequency elasticity of 0.15 has also been included. Passengers attach utility
to the improved comfort of rehabilitated and new buses and disutility to overcrowding. These costs and
benefits, though small, have been assessed and included in the analysis. Passenger benefits of 0,6 soums
and 0.24 soums have been included for new and rehabilitated vehicles.
Public Transport Fares
13. Break even fares by vehicle type were calculated, using the optimal operations and maintenance cost
profile for vehicles. This analysis shows that the lowest break-even fare is provided by the bigger vehicles.
The break-even fare is between 9 and 10 Soums per passenger for a bigger bus, and 16 to 18 Soums for a
Damas (at mid 1998 costs). These fares include depreciation and capital costs (valued at international
prices). At the time of the economic analysis, fares, although they varied by city, were set around 12 Soums
for large buses and 20 Soums for minibuses. The fares were thus quite adequate for cost recovery
(provided that the Government compensates operators for the transport of privileged passengers). Through
continuous fare adjustments, this has been maintained since mid 1998. Any change in the average fare
would affect total demand, and demand elasticities change as one moves up the demand curve.
Financial and Economic costs
14. The total financial cost of bus rehabilitation and purchase of new vehicles is estimated in the economic
analysis at US$21.2 m. The costs included in the financial analysis are operations and maintenance costs,
administrative costs, vehicle depreciation costs, interest on debt, taxes and an allowance for risk and
profits. To calculate the economic costs, the following adjustments were considered. Taxes were discounted
from the pertinent financial costs. Profits have been excluded and passenger time costs have been included
in the economic costs.
15. Vehicle Operating and maintenance costs. There is a complex relationship between expenditure on
maintenance and optimum vehicle life. As a result of insufficient preventive maintenance in the past,
operating costs of vehicles have increased rapidly with age. Rehabilitation of the buses will restore the full
- 34 -



technical performance and earning potential of the vehicles and reduce the ongoing maintenance costs.
O&M costs used in the analysis, for both rehabilitated and new vehicles, are based on estimates required to
maintain a vehicle in good condition over its economic life.
16. Passenger time costs. The time savings of passengers are accounted through the inclusion of the
economic value of time. The value of travel time is considered a function of the local hourly wage rate. It is
assumed that the value of travel time is half the hourly wage rate of 25 Soums. Waiting time is valued at
twice the in-vehicle time.
Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
17. The estimated net present value and economic rate of return are sensitive particularly to two sets of
assumptions: an increase in capital costs and a decrease in maintenance cost savings. A 20 percent
increase in capital costs causes the ERR to drop by 15.5 percent, while a 30 percent reduction in
maintenance costs leads to an overall economic rate of return of 39.4 per cent. A combination of a 20
percent increase in capital costs and a reduction in maintenance costs (16 percent for new vehicles and 30
percent for old vehicles) gives an net present value of 0.74 billion Soums. The ERR is 30.1 percent, well
above the 12 percent cut-off rate.
18. Several other sensitivity tests were completed, including a halving of passenger valuation of time,
exclusion of passenger benefits due to comfort and less crowding, exclusion of generated demand; the
project results are robust with respect to all these changes. The outcomes of these tests are summarized in
Table 4.5 below.
Table 4.5: Sensitivity test results
Test                               NPV ('000 Soums)            ERR (%)
1. Capital costs increase by 20%   1,238,200                   44.9
2. Maintenance costs decrease by   896,522                     39.4
30%
3. Value of time is halved         1,342,399                   57.8
4. Generated demand and passenger   1,028,813                  45
benefits of new vehicles are excluded
5. Capital costs increase 20%, and  740,487                    30.1
maint. costs decrease 16% or 30%
- 35 -



Annex 6: Financial Summary
UZBEKISTAN: Urban Transport Project
Years Ending
June 30
S~~~~1P~~TTpRo    __________
Year 1    Year2  |  Year 3      Year 4     Year 5_ Year 6        Year -7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            2.7       15.0       10.0        3.5        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           2.7       15.0       10.0        3.5        0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.3        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       '0.0       0.0
Total Financing               3.0       15.0       10.0        3.5        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   3.0        14.0       9.0        3.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0         1.0        1.0       0.5        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      3.0       15.0       10.0        3.5        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Numbers are rounded to the first decimal
Financial Management Assessment
Assessment of Financial Management System
Although Uzavtotrans has overall responsibility for project implementation, the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) will be responsible for project accounting, administration of the Special
Account, all loan disbursements, procurement of consultants, and project supervision.
Procurement of goods will be carried out by Uzavtotrans Taminot (UATT) under supervision and
monitoring by the PIU. UATT is a large subsidiary of Uzavtotrans, specialized in procurement of
new vehicles, spare parts, and supplies for all 'daughter' companies of the Uzavtotrans group.
The financial management system of the PIU was reviewed by the Bank and found adequate with
respect to staffing and internal controls. Accounting and administrative policies and procedures
adopted by the management of Uzavtotrans, documented and issued to all its companies, including
the PIU, were also found satisfactory. However, the existing manual accounting system,
particularly because it was not computerized, was originally found not to meet Bank accounting
and financial reporting requirements under OP/BP 10.02.
- 36 -



As a condition of Board Presentation, with funding from the PPF Advance, the PIU therefore
purchased personal computers and a project management software which had already been used
with satisfaction in several FSU countries, including Uzbekistan. A financial consultant was also
recruited to help install and test the software and improve the PIU's operational and financial
management manual.
More specifically the main actions taken included: (a) procurement and installation of accounting
and financial reporting software and personal computers for the project; (b) design of a chart of
accounts for the project to ensure the availability of the information required and for consistency in
classification of financial data; (c) updating of the operational and financial management manual;
and (d) formulation of the audit arrangements which will be applied during project implementation.
The computerized system is commensurate with the size of the project and provides better
classification, compilation, analysis of accounting data, and improved controls over data integrity;
it also ensures timeliness and quality of accounting and financial reporting.
Internal Control Systems
Internal controls within Uzavtotrans on: (a) operation of budgeting system and regular monitoring
of actual financial performance with budget and targets; and (b) clear written administrative,
operational, financial and accounting policies and procedures, are considered adequate. The
following internal controls within the PIU were also streamlined and documented as part of the
above mentioned consultancy: (a) accounting, financial reporting and operation procedures for the
financial management system, including format for the PMRs; (b) procedures on flow of funds as
they relate to responsibilities, processing, and authorization by management of all transactions and
activities relating to the project; (c) control over project assets; (d) budgetary procedures including
monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets and targets, and monitoring of physical
and financial progress; and (e) timely feedback on operation of the financial management system.
Project Accounting and Financial Reporting
A double entry accrual accounting system will be maintained by the PIU to record and report all
project activities. Consolidated Project Management Reports (PMRs) and Project Financial
Statements will be prepared for the whole project and generated from the computerized financial
management system. The format of such reports was agreed with the PIU during project
preparation. PMRs comprising of financial reports, progress reports, and procurement
management reports will be prepared quarterly while Project Financial Statements will be prepared
annually to provide financial information to the Bank and Borrower. The financial management
action plan is included in the PIP and agreed format for PMRs is in project files.
Staffing
The PIU currently has a staff of five, including director, deputy director, accountant, procurement
specialist, and secretary/translator. The PIU will also get support from UATT in the procurement
of goods. In addition, training in financial management, accounting, Bank disbursement, and
procurement procedures is planned. During the key stages of project implementation, the PIU will
be assisted by international project management and procurement specialists.
Auditing Arrangements
- 37 -



The PIU will be responsible for engaging external private auditors before commencement of project
activities to ensure that the audit will be completed on time. The Ministry of Finance confirmed
during project preparation that it had approved three to four international auditing firms from the
'big five' operating in Uzbekistan to carry out audit of Bank projects. The audit will cover Project
Financial Statements, Special Account, Statements of Expenditures and PMRs, and assessment of
adequacy of accounting and internal control systems, in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing. The terms of reference for the audit will be agreed with the Bank.
Readiness for Implementation
(a)    The PIU's accounting and financial management systems are being strengthened to ensure
that they meet international standards and provide accurate and timely information on
project resources and expenditures as mandated by the Bank's OP 10.02. This
strengthening is being carried out in accordance with an action plan which was agreed at
Negotiations and attached to the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The action plan
includes two main stages. First, the PIU has taken action to ensure that minimum Bank
requirements are met before Board Presentation. This included in particular: (i) the
preparation of a simple operations manual that describes the allocation of responsibilities
to PIU staff and documents the PIU's internal controls (this manual is based on and
complements the instructions which already exist in Uzavtotrans); and (ii) the installation
in the PIU of a computerized accounting and project management system (with a chart of
accounts specific to the project) that can produce reports in a format and substance
acceptable to the Bank. Achievements under this first phase were reviewed by a Bank
financial management specialist who issued a "4B" financial management certificate.
Second, the PIU's financial management system will be further strengthened and the
capability of the PIU developed so that it can prepare starting on June 30, 2001, quarterly
Project Management Reports fully acceptable to the Bank. The action plan is being
implemented with the assistance of financial consultants.
(b)    A fully operational PIU is in place and includes a director, deputy director, accountant,
and procurement specialist. Staff will be trained and supported by international
specialists in project management and procurement, the recruitment of which has already
been initiated.
(c)    Private independent auditors will be engaged before commencement of Project activities
to ensure that the audit will be completed in a timely manner.
Risks
A new project management and accounting software has just been satisfactorily installed at the
PIU. Although the system is operational and the staff have been trained, it will take some time
before the use of the system becomes a routine. Consultants financed under the project will
therefore need to continue supporting the PIU during project implementation. To facilitate
progress and staff replacement if required, staff involved in financial management and information
technology in the central office of Uzavtotrans have also participated in the installation of the new
software. The PIU will also be supported by Bank staff at the resident mission on day to day
project implementation, as needed.
- 38 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UZBEKISTAN: Urban Transport Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods financed by the Bank would be conducted in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995, revised January 1996, August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Procurement of consulting services would follow the Bank's
Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999. For procurement under the Loan, the Borrower would use: (i)
the Bank's standard bidding documents for ICB procurement; and (ii) the Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals for Selection of Consultants.
Procurement responsibility would reside with the implementation agency, Uzavtotrans, and, more
specifically, its procurement unit, Uzavtotrans Taminot (UATT), with support, supervision, and monitoring
by the PIU. A procurement capacity assessment of the agency was conducted during project preparation.
Based on the assessment's findings, an action plan (including recommended procurement arrangements and
provision of training and international procurement assistance) was prepared. The main objective of this
plan is to enhance the implementation agency's capacity to conduct competitive procurement and apply
Bank Procurement Guidelines under the project. The action plan was finalized and agreed upon with the
Borrower during Negotiations.
Advance procurement is being carried out by Uzavtotrans. Draft bidding documents for procurement of
new buses, in particular, have already been prepared with assistance from a consultant financed by the PPF
Advance. The recruitment of consultants for assistance in project management and procurement, and in
establishing the leasing unit is expected to start before Board approval.
Advertisement: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the Development Business on
December 16, 1999, announcing the bidding opportunities under this project and inviting interested eligible
suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and request any additional information from
Uzavtotrans. The GPN was also published in the local press. In addition, two requests for expressions of
interest for the consultants' services mentioned in the previous paragraph were published in the same
Development Business isssue
Table A and Al provide details of procurement arrangements for main expenditure categories, including
goods and consultants' services. Table B provides information on thresholds for prior review and
procurement methods. Table D refers to the assessment of Uzavtotrans' capacity in procurement and its
technical assistance requirements. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of
the main procurement actions is presented in Table E.
Procurement methods (Table A)
(i) Goods
International Competitive Bidding (ICB): would be used to procure goods (including about 350 buses,
spare parts, tools and equipment) for contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more each.
International Shopping (IS): would be used for procuring spare parts, workshop equipment and office
equipment estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$500,000. Under international shopping, the Borrower shall obtain quotations from at least three
- 39 -



suppliers in two different countries.
National Shopping (NS): would be used to procure locally available goods for contracts to cost less than
US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000, with at least three quotations obtained
from local suppliers.
Direct Contracting (DC): would be used, subject to the Bank's prior approval, to procure spare parts of a
proprietary nature for the existing fleet of buses up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000.
(ii) Services
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS): would be used to hire consulting firms to provide technical
assistance and training under contracts estimated to cost above US$100,000.
Selection based on Consultants Qualifications (CQ): would be used for hiring consulting firrns to
provide technical assistance and training under contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 each, up
to an aggregated amount of US$200,000.
Individuals: would be hired to provide legal, procurement and expert assistance in urban transport and
privatization up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000. Individual contracts would be below US$50,000
each.
(iii) PIU Incremental Operatin! Costs
Items for operation of the PIU (US$230,000) would be procured in accordance with an agreed annual
budget and schedule, and with prior Bank approval.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
16t unC8    :Procuriment Methods              .      Total Cost
Expenjditu  Catgoy                          1t   NCB      Ote       __________
1. Works                          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.80          0.80
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                          25.25          0.00          1.10          1.65          28.00
(25.25)        (0.00)        (1.10)        (0.00)_      (26.35)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00          1.63          0.00          1.63
(consulting services and          (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.63)        (0.00)         (1.63)
training)                                                 __      __
4. Incremental Operating          0.00           0.00          0.23          0.00          0.23
Costs
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.23)        (0.00)         (0.23)
5. Front-end fee                  0.00           0.00          0.29          0.00          0.29
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.29)        (0.00)         (0.29)
6. Refunding of the PPF           0.00           0.00          0.50          0.00          0.50
Advance                          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.50)        (0.00)         (0.50)
Total                          25.25          0.00          3.75          2.45          31.45
(25.25)        (0.00)        (3.75)        (0.00)        (29.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
Includes goods to be procured through international and national shopping, direct contracting, consulting
services, training, and PIU incremental operating cost.
- 40 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                 Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCS       QBS       SFB       LCS       CQ       Other     N.B.F.  Total Cost
category     _
A. Firms           1.23      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.20      0.00      0.00       1.43
(1.23)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.43)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.20      0.00      0.20
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.20)
Total   1.23     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.20      0.20       0.00      1.63
(1.23)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (1.63)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
-41 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All the ICB goods contracts, the first IS and NS contracts, all direct contracts, all consulting contracts for
firms, and contracts exceeding US$ 20,000 for individuals, will be subject to prior review. For the other
consultants' assignments, TORs and CVs of the individual consultants will be subject to prior review by the
Bank.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
, R~~~~~oi~rc Vle                                                 CS t-rcs *Subj P ectw to
1. Works
2. Goods                    >or = $100,000              ICB                 All ($25.25 mil.)
<$100,000          International Shopping  First contract ($0.1 mil.)
(aggregate $0.5 mil.)
<$50,000            National Shopping    First contract ($0.05 mil.)
(aggregate $0.1 mil.)
(aggregate $0.5 mil.)   Direct Contracting    All contracts ($0.5 mil.)
3. Services                   >$100,000                 QCBS                 All ($1.23 mil)
Firms
<$100,000
(aggregate $0.2 mil)           CQ                  All ($0.2 mil.)
Individuals
(aggregate $0.2 mil.)     Individuals          All contracts above
$20,000 ($0.1 mil.)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 27.43 million or
98% of Bark financed
contracts
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Ex-post review would cover one out of five contracts not submitted to prior review.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project.
-42 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                  23.83              100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost),
and 80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
2. Consultants' Services and Training      1.50                        100%
3. Refunding of Project Preparation        0.50             Amount due pursuant to Section
Advance                                                     2.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement.
4. PIU Incremental Operating Costs         0.20                        100%
5. Unallocated                             2.68
Total Project Costs                       28.71
Front-end fee         0.29          Amount due pursuant to Section 2.04 of
the Loan Agreement.
Total                                     29.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements will be fully documented, except that Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be used for:
(i) contracts for goods of less than US$100,000 equivalent; (ii) contracts with consulting firms of less than
US$100,000 equivalent; (iii) contracts with individual consultants of less than US$20,000 equivalent; and
(iv) training and PIU incremental operating costs. Full documentation in support of each SOE will be
retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which
the last disbursement was made for the relevant SOE. This information will be available for review by
Bank missions during supervision, and by auditors. The minimum application size for payments directly
from the loan account and for issuance of special commitments is 20% of the current Special Account
authorized allocation. When the PIU has gained experience with its financial management system and has
shown full effectiveness with financial management as well as with preparation of project management
reports (PMRs), the Bank may agree to change the disbursement method for one based on PMRs. The
decision would be taken at the mid-term project implementation review.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish and maintain, under conditions
acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account (SA) in US$ in a commercial bank. The selection process and
criteria for selection of the commercial bank would follow Bank standard procedures. During the early
stage of the project, the initial allocation of the SA would be limited to US$0.2 million. However, when the
aggregate disbursements and sum of all outstanding special commitments under the Loan have reached the
level of US$7.5 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$0.4
-43 -



million. Replenishment applications would be submitted at least every three months, and include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The authorized allocation for the SA
would be reviewed if a PMR-based disbursement method is used.
- 44 -



Table D
Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance Requirements
Brief Statement
A capacity assessment of the Borrower and its implementation agency, Uzavtotrans, was conducted
during project pre appraisal. It was found that UATT, the procurement unit of Uzavtotrans, had
qualified staff and extensive experience in the procurement of buses and spare parts under
international contracts. However, Uzavtotrans' existing procurement procedures were found not in
accordance with current internationally acceptable principles for public procurement. Therefore, an
action plan was prepared to enable the Borrower to conduct procurement under the project in
accordance with Bank procurement procedures. This plan includes in particular: (i) hiring an
international consulting firm with experience in procurement under Bank rules and project
management to assist UATT and the PIU (the request for expressions of interest for these services
was included in the December 16, 1999, issue of Development Business); (ii) defining the
composition of the Government's tender committees for the project as well as all internal procedures
related to procurement under the project not later than 45 days after Loan signing; (iii) training
selected staff of Uzavtotrans in Bank procurement (in the second quarter of year 2000); (iv) using
Bank standard bidding documents under the project; and (v) organizing a project launch workshop
shortly after Loan signature. This action plan was agreed at Negotiations and attached to the Agreed
Minutes of Negotiations
Country Procurement Assessment Report:    Are the bidding documents for the procurement
A country procurement assessment has not yet
been conducted. However, he Bank is currently
assisting the Government with the preparation   Bidding documents for new buses and requests
of its Public Procurement Law.            for proposals for technical assistance in project
management and procurement, and in
establishment of the leasing unit are in an
Iadvanced stage of preparation.
TRAINING INFORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT ON PROCUREMENT
Estimated   Date of       Indicate ifthere is procurement subject  Domestic    Domestic
Date of    publication of to mandatory SPN in Development     Preference   Preference
Project     General       Business:                           for Goods.  for Works,
Launch      Procurement                                                    if
Workshop:  Notice:        Yes, for procurement of buses and   Yes.         applicable:
consultants' services for: (i) project
September  December 16,  management and procurement, (ii)                  N/A
2000        1999          establishment of leasing unit, and (iii)
improving transport operators and the
sector's institutional, financial, and
regulatory framework.
Retroactive Financing:                                        Advance Procurement:
No                                                            Yes.
-45 -



Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All project documentation which requires prior review will be cleared by a PAS and the relevant
technical staff. A procurement consultant will assist the Government in monitoring the procurement
process and building up in house experience. Procurement information will be collected and
recorded by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank as part of quarterly progress reports prepared
by the PIU. This information will include: (a) cost estimates for individual contracts; (b) timing of
procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for
individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement.
Cofinancing. Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing: N/A
PROCUREMENT STAFFING
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsible for the
procurement in the Project:
Name: Irina Luca Extension: 87092
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
The Field Office will provide back up on the procurement issues to the project team.
- 46 -



TABLE E: Procurement Plan
1.         2.      3.      4.        5.                                    6. Estimated dates
GOODS        Ty    No. of    Est.   Procurem    Pre-quali-      Bidding                              Contract     Contract
pe    Con-    cost       ent      fi-cation     Documents       1.  Invitation         Signing      Signing
tracts   US$     Method                1. Draft to Bank    2.  Opening
Mil.                          2. Bank No        3.  Evaluation and
Objection             Recommenda-
tion.
_____    ______                                   4.  Award
New Buses        G        1     22.0   ICB          No          1. July 15, 2000    1. Sept. 15, 2000   April 15,    April 15,
2. Sept. 1, 2000    2. Nov. 15,2000    2001         2001
3. Dec. 15,2000
4. March 15, 2001
Spare Parts      G        4      1.2    ICB         No          1. Dec. 1, 2000    1. Jan. 15, 2001     June 1,      June 1,
for BELDE                                                       2. Dec. 15, 2000   2. March 1,2001      2001         2001
buses and                                                                        3. April 30, 2001
IKARUS buses                                                                     4. May 15,2001
Spare Parts               1     1.0    ICB          No          1. Feb. 1, 2001  1. April 15, 2001      Sept. 1,     Sept. 1,
for PAZ and                                                     2.Feb.15,2001    2. June 1, 2001        2001         2001
LAZ buses                                                                        3. July 1, 2001
4. August 1, 2001
Equipment for    G        1     0.3    ICB          No          1. July 15, 2000    1. Sept. 15, 2000   April 15,    April 15,
maintenance                                                     2. Sept. 1, 2000    2. Nov. 15, 2000    2001         2001
centers                                                                          3. Dec. 15, 2000
_  =____ _            _______________    4. March  15, 2001
Workshop         G        1     0.5    ICB          No          1. June 15, 2001    I.August 1, 2001    Dec. 15,     Dec. 15,
equipment and                                                   2. July 15, 2001    2. Sept. 15, 2001   2001         2001
tools                                                                            3. Oct. 15, 2001
4. Nov. 15,2001
Office equipment  G       2     0.25    ICB         No          1. Aug. 1, 2001    1. Sept. 1, 2001    Nov. 30,      Nov. 30,
for JSC and city                                                2. Aug. 15, 2001   2. Oct.15, 2001      2001         2001
transport                                                                        2. Nov. 1, 2001
departments                                                                      3. Nov. 15, 2001
Spare parts      G        2     0.15    IS          No          1. June 15, 2001    1. Sept. 1, 2001    Dec 1,      Dec 1,
for BELDE                                                       2. Aug. 1, 2001    3. Oct. 15, 2001     2001         2001
buses                                                                            4. Nov. 1, 2001
Spare parts      G        2     0.15    is          No          1. Nov 1, 2001   1. Nov. 30, 2001       Feb. 15,     Feb. 15,
for IKARUS                                                      2. Nov. 15, 2001   3. Jan. 1,2002       2002         2002
buses                                                                            4. Jan. 30, 2002
Spare parts      G       2      0.1    IS           No          1. Nov. 15, 2001    1. Dec. 15,2001     March 1,    March 1,
for LAZ and                                                     2. Nov. 30, 2001   3. Jan. 15, 2002     2002         2002
PAZ buses                                                                        4. Feb. 15, 2002      _
Office           G       2      0.1    IS           No          1. Jan. 15, 2001    1.Feb. 15,2001     June 15,     June 15,
equipment                                                       2. Jan. 31, 2001    3. April 15, 2001   2001         2001
(leasing company                                                                 4. May 15, 2001
and PIU)
Spare parts for  G       10    0.1      NS                      1. Aug. 1,2001    1. August 31, 2001    Jan. 1, 2002  Jan. 1,2002
LAZ and PAZ                                                     2. Aug. 15, 2001   3. Oct. 15, 2001
buses                                                                            4. Nov. 15, 2001
-47 -



Spare parts      G        4     0.5      DC                     As needed
(misc.)
CONSULTING    Ty    No. of   Est.    Procurem    Pre-           A. Request for   A. RFP sent to short    Contract    Contract
SERVICES         pe     Con-   Cost   ent           qualifi-    expressions of    listed firms          Signing      Signing
tracts   US$    method      cation      interest (SPN)   B. Submission of
Mil.                           B. Draft RFP to    proposals
Bank             C. Bank no objection
C. Bank No       for technical
Objection        evaluation;
D. Opening financial
proposals
E. Bank no objection
for contract
negotiation
F. Bank no objection
to negotiated contract
Technical        CS       1     .300    QCBS        No          A. Dec. 16, 1999   A. April 25, 2000    Sept. 15,    Sept. 15,
assistance to the                                               B. Apr. 15, 2000    B. June 16, 2000    2000         2000
PIU (project                                                    C. Apr. 22, 2000   C. July 14, 2000
management,                                                                      D. July 28, 2000
procurement,                                                                      E. August 12, 2000
training)                                                                         F. August 28, 2000
Technical        CS       1      .500    QCBS       No          A. Dec. 16, 1999   A. June 25, 2000     Nov. 15,     Nov. 15,
assistance and                                                  B. June 15, 2000   B August 16, 2000    2000         2000
training for the                                                C. June 22, 2000   C Sept. 14, 2000
establishment of                                                                  D. Sept. 28, 2000
the leasing                                                                       E. Oct.12, 2000
operations                                                                        F. Oct. 28,2000
Technical        CS       1     .300    QCBS        No          A. Sept. 1, 2000    A. Nov. 1, 2000     May 1,       May 1,
assistance for                                                  B. Oct. 15, 2000   B. Jan. 1, 2001      2001         2001
improving JSC                                                   C. Oct. 25, 2000   C. Feb. 15,2001
and private bus                                                                   D. March 5, 2001
operators as well                                                                 E. March 15,2001
as urban                                                                         F. April 15, 2001
transport
institutional,
financial and
regulatory
framework
Technical        CS       1      .100    CQ         No          A. Dec. 1, 2000    B. March 15, 2001    June 1,      June 1,
assistance to JSC                                               B. Feb. 1,2001   E. April 15, 2001      2001         2001
and private bus                                                 C. Feb. 15, 2001   F. May 15,2001
operators (waste
management)
Technical        CS       1      .150    QCBS       No          B. Aug. 15, 2000   A. Sept. 10, 2000    March 1,    March 1,
assistance for                                                  C. Sept. 1, 2000   B. Oct. 10,2000      2001         2001
quality control of                                                               C. Nov. 20, 2000
new buses                                                                        D. Dec. 10, 2000
manufacturing                                                                     E. Dec. 20, 2000
F. Jan. 15, 2001
Technical        CS       I      .100    CQ         No          A. Jan. 1, 2003  B. April 15, 2003      July 1,      July 1,
assistance in                                                   B. March 1, 2003   E. May 15,2003       2003         2003
privatization of                                                C. March 15,     F. June 15, 2003
bus operations   _ _                                            2003
Individual       CS        6    .200    Other                   As needed
Consultants
G=Goods, CS=Consultancy Services, ICB=Intemational Competitive Bidding, IS=International Shopping, NS=National Shopping,
DC=Direct Contracting, QCBS=Quality and Cost Based Selection, CQ= Selection based on Consultant Qualification Assistance
-48 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UZBEKISTAN: Urban Transport Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       10                           18
First Bank mission (identification)              09/01/97                     09/01/97
Appraisal mission departure                      01/15/99                      10/18/99
Negotiations                                     04/01/99                     02/28/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    08/15/99                     09/30/2000
Prepared by:
Uzavtotrans, with assistance from consultants
Preparation assistance:
US$ 500,000 (Bank Project Preparation Advance)
US$ 65,000 (Italian Trust Fund)
US$ 48,000 (Irish Trust Fund)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Jean-Charles Crochet              Transport Economist
Kenneth Gwilliam                  Urban Transport Adviser
Oleg Borovikov                    Operations Officer
Ajay Kumar                        Urban Transport Specialist
Irina Luca                        Procurement Specialist
Kavita Sethi                      Transport Economist
Njeri Muhoho                      Financial Management Specialist
Hiran Herat                       Financial Management Specialist
Hannah Koilpillai                 Disbursement Officer
Nikolai Soubbotin                  Counsel
Marie Laygo                       Team Assistant
- 49 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UZBEKISTAN: Urban Transport Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, November 1999.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Back to Office reports of identification, preparation, pre-appraisal, and appraisal missions, October
1997, May 1998, December 1998, June 1999, and November 1999.
2. Analysis of Options for Financing the Acquisition of New Buses, note of March 1999 and intemal
message of July 1999.
3. Results of Quality at Entry Review, September 1999, internal memorandum.
4. Procurement Assessment, July 1999, prepared by Irina Luca.
5. Financial Management Assessment, September 1999, prepared by Njeri Muhoho.
C. Other
1. Study of Urban Passenger Transport, Final Report, December 1998, prepared by CIE ConsultIMVA.
2. Study of Urban Passenger Transport, Working Papers, September 1998, prepared by CIE
Consult/MVA.
3. Study of Urban Passenger Transport, Institutional Component, December 1998, prepared by CIE
Consult/MVA.
4. Social Assessment Report, July 1998, prepared by the Center for Social Research "Expert-Fikri".
5. "Designing Competition in Urban Passenger Transport - Lessons from Uzbekistan", June 1999, by
Kenneth Gwilliam, Richard Meakin, and Ajay Kumar.
6. Financial Analysis of Leasing Scheme, July 1999, prepared by CIE Consult.
7. Updated Financial Analysis of Leasing Scheme, February 2000, prepared by Zvi Ranaan.
8. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, March 3, 2000.
*Including electronic files
- 50 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UZBEKISTAN: Urban Transport Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions      disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                Purpose                          IBRD      IDA        Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig  Frm Revld
P009122      1995 Uzbekistan              COTTON SUB-SECTOR IMPROVEMENT       66.00      0.00       0.00     29.15    25.05     3.77
P055159      1998 Uzbekistan              ENT. INST. BLDG.                    28.00      0.00       0.00     26.46     4.06     0.00
P009131      1999 Uzbekistan              FIN. INST. BLDG.                    25.00      0.00       0.00     23.81     1.01     0.00
P009125      1999 Uzbekistan              HEALTH I                            30.00      0.00       0.00     29.18     7.33     0.00
P009123      1994 Uzbekistan              INSTITBLDGtTA                       21.00      0.00       0.00      2.16     2.16     2.16
P009121      1998 Uzbekistan              RURAL W.S. & SANITA.                75.00      0.00       0.00     64.47     0.47     0.00
P049582      1998 Uzbekistan              TASHKENT SOLID WASTE                24.00      0.00       0.00     24.00     7.80     0.00
Total:    269.00      0.00      0.00     199.23    47.88     5.93
UZBEKISTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
March 31, 2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval            Company                             Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic       Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1996                  ABN AMRO Uzbek                       0.00      1.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      1.00      0.00      0.00
1997                   Core Pharrn                         3.35      0.50      0.00     0.00      3.35      0.50      0.00      0.00
1999                   SEF Elma Cheese                     0.58      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                  SEF Fayz                             1.90      0.50      0.00     0.00      1.47      0.50      0.00      0.00
1995                  UZBEK LEASING                        0.00      0.60      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.60      0.00      0.00
1997                   UzCase Agrolease                    5.00      1.00      0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                  UzCaseService                        3.20      0.55      0.00     3.90      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                   Uzcasemash                          6.80      2.60      0.00     4.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:            20.83      6.75      0.00     12.90     4.82      2.60      0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                                 Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic
1999                  ABN-SME                                 5.00        0.00       0.00        000
1999                  Arsin                                  12.26        1.47       0.00        0.00
1999                  Asaka Bank                             10.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
1999                  NBU-SME                                15.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
2000                  SEF Asia Granite                        1.25        0.00        0.40       0.00
1995                  ULCL LTD                                5.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
2000                  Uzbek Leasing RI                        0.00        0.30        0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:             48.51        1.77        0,40        0.00
- 51 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UZBEKISTAN: Urban Transport Project
7  Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Cerntrat   middle-
Uzbekistan       Asia  Income        Development diamond'
Population, mid-year (millions)                         24.1        473       908                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                       870      21190      1,710
G NP (AtlaS method, US$ billions)                       21.0      103        1557
Averago annual g~rowth, 1992.9$
Poputation f%)                                            1.9       0.1        1,1
Labor force I(%)                                          2.7       0.6        i's       N                                Gross
Most recent estImate Itatest year available, 19924$)             ~~per                             primary
Mos rcen etimte(laes Ver vaiabe, t"capita                                             /enrollment
Poverty (% of paopuatiorsbe/ow national povertv line)
Urban population (% of total popuation)                   42         88        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          69         69        68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 five births)                  24         23        38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                19          .          ,Access to safe water
Acceas to safe water (9% of population)                   57          .,       75
Illfiteracy 5. of populat/on age 15+)                      -.         4        14
Grossprimary enrollmernt (%6 of school-apepopulat!on)     78        100       103         -"" UIzb.kistan
Male                                                    79        101       105         -- -Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                  77         9         0
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      H1997]     199$
Economic ratios*
GDP (1.13 billions)                               .         .      13.8       14;2
Gross domestic investment/GOP                     ..       .-    .21~7                                  Trad
Exports of goods and services/GOP                 .        .       27.4 i     22.2Trd
Gross domnestic saVinqs/GOP                       ,        ..      18.7
Gross national sAvings/GOP                        ..17,7                         -
Current account balance/GOP                       .,                4.2       -1.4      Domestic                      Ivsmn
Interest pavments/GOP                             ..01                         01                                     Inavinmes
Total debt/GOP                                    .         .       20.0      23.4t      aig
Total debt servicelexporta s.                                       14.0      13.4
Present value of deb>t/GOP                        .        ..      10.7
Present value of debt/exports                     .
Indebtedness
1977487  1988-98     1997        98   1999.03
(average annual growth)                                                                          Ubksa
GOP                                     ..     -1.8      2.4        3.4        2.0         "~Ubksa
GNP per capita                          ..     -2.1      -0.2       2.0        0.2                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of poods and services..                   ,      7.0      -17.0        3.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                       ~ ~~~~~1977  1987     1997       1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                       .        ..      32.2       31.2 
Industry                                          .        .       26.1       27.
Manufacturing                                   .         -       12.1      1 2. ,0                            9    9      9
Services                                          .        ..      41.7       41.9    .1
Private consumption                               .        ..      60.8       66.4    -15
General government consumption                    .        ..      20.5       2`1.6                _GD          -.OGDP
Imports of goods and services                     .        ..      30.4       23.2
(average annual growth)1977-87  1988-98                 1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (56)
Agriculture                                       .        ..       4.2        3.0    10_
Industrv                                          .        .        2.3        3.6      s                               1
Manufacturing                                                                                93.  .  .s    94   95   96  N9
Services                                          .        ..        1.5       3.5    is -
Private consumption                              ..20 .                          .     s
General government consumption..                            .         ...
Gross domestic investment                                                              30...
Imports of goods and services                     .        ..       -7.3     -23.7              -~'.~Exports   --*Imports
Gross national product                            .        ..        1.9       3.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 52 -



Uzbekistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1977     1987      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          2,000
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..       70.9      29.0    1,500
Implicit GDP deflator                           I.D..70.6                   34.5    1,0003
Government finance                                                                    500
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    0 -       E         I
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       30.3      32.5              93   94   95   93   97   93
Current budget balance                          ..       ..        5.2       6.7             -    GDP deflator  -C-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -1.7      -1.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                197      1987      1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..        ..    3,695      2,944     O,0DD
Cotton                                         ..       ..    1,390      1,133                                  _
Gold                                                             738       671
Manufactures                                   .         ..      370       363     3,0
Total imports (df)                                               41        312
Food                                            .        .,      873       512
Fuel and energy25                                                           16          )
Capital goods                                  .         ..    2,076     2,395  
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..        96        91
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..        .       101       100               E Exports     a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..        ..        95        91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1977     1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                                    3,987     3,148     1 .
Imports of goods and services                                    4,424     3,282     o -          ,
Resource balance                                          .       -437     -134                     94 3
Net income                                       .        ..      -175     -104
Net current transfers2.0                                                    40
Current account balance                                           -583     -195
Financing items (net)                           ..        ..   1,063.0      196      4
Changes in net reserves                          .480.0                       -1    -s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..       ..    1,168      1,167
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                ..        ..      47.5      64.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..       ..    2,760      3,322
IBRD                                          ..        .       155       177
IDA                                            ..      ..          0        0                  G: 419  A 177
Total debt service                               ..        ..5516            446
IBRD                                                              10       11
IDA                                            .        ..         0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   a eo0
Official grants                                         -    18             -           F: 9343
Official creditors                            ..       ..        24
Private creditors                             ..       ..       150
Foreign direct investment                      ..      ..       285                                        E963
Portfolio equity                              ..        .          0        .
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                   ..        ..       75        82      A- IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    -                13       12      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                               0        0      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                      ..      ..         13       12
Interest payments                             ..       ..         10       11
Net transfers                                 ..        ..         3         1
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/22/99
-53 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
UZBEKISTAN: Urban Transport Project
Urban Passenger Transport Development
Strategy Statement
(Forwarded to the Bank under Letter, Dated April 17, 2000, No 06/46-24, from Mr. Ataev, Deputy
Prime Minister)
BACKGROUND
The urban passenger transport services in the medium- and small-size cities in the country are
faced with a number of problems resulting from the aged and deteriorating fleet of the traditional bus
operators. These problems have arisen due to the combination of the inability of the operators to
finance the procurement of new buses received by bus enterprises to provide for vehicle replacement,
procurement of operational equipment and spare parts from internal sources. The collapse of
traditional trade links have further contributed to the problems of the aging vehicle fleet. The
emergence of unsubsidized private sector operations, often using small vehicles has nevertheless helped
alleviate these problems. However, the regulatory, institutional, and financial arrangements that are
being put in place still do not ensure provision of efficient and quality transport services to the
population.
The Government has been faced with the following tasks in the urban transport sector:
improving the quality of transport services provided to the public;
creating a fair regulatory basis for setting up a competitive and commercial transport sector;
establishing a proper financial basis to ensure the sustainability of operating enterprises;
separating regulatory and operational responsibilities to improve efficiency;
strengthening technical and financial capacity of planning agencies; and
creating equal conditions for the private sector.
In order to address these issues, the Government has initiated a number of important structural
changes. The Government is committed to transforming the urban transport into a more commercial
and competitive sector, based on financial autonomy and self-dependency. In the past two years, the
Government has created the legal basis for a number of far reaching reforms to introduce a competitive
environment in the urban transport sector, decentralize decision-making, restructure
management of public companies, reduce exemptions and improve the financial condition of operating
enterprises. Specifically, the Government has:
* enacted a framework law on urban transport (April 1997), creating the basis for competitively
tendered bus route franchises as well as decentralization of urban passenger transport planning and
monitoring functions to each City Administration;
* introduced the system of competitive franchises on a few bus routes in the five pilot cities of
Almalyk, Bukhara, Namangan, Nukus, and Samarkand late in 1997, including needed institutional
arrangements, and designed and implemented progressive refinements since then;
progressively extended the franchising system to cover all urban transport services throughout
the country and completed this process in the first half of 1999;
- 54 -



* established the Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport to rationalize the licensing
of transport operators and progressively take over road transport sector regulation and
responsibility for development and provision of recommendations to the City Transport
Commissions in the design and management of franchises for urban, suburban, intercity and
international routes;
* Substantially reduced the number of nationally established categories of exempt passengers
(from 17 to currently seven);
* encouraged the private sector to develop associations and participate in the bus route tendering
process;
* adopted "the Concept for the Development of Urban Passenger Transport in the Republic of
Uzbekistan"; and
* regularly increased passenger fares in line with increases in the cost of the main inputs.
THE MEDIUM TO LONG TERM STRATEGY OF THE GOVERNMENT OF UZBEKISTAN
The Government is committed to developing a financially, economically and environmentally
sustainable urban transport sector able to meet the transport demand of the city residents in an efficient
and effective manner. Urban transport sector ranks high in Government's priorities because of the
existing problems and the demonstration effect on other sectors of the economy. The steps that are
being taken by the Government to improve the quality and quantity of public transport available in the
cities will be aimed at attraction of investment in new vehicles coupled with necessary institutional,
regulatory, and financial reforms. The aim of the reforms, introduced by the Government over the past
two years, is to progressively mobilize all forms of operations, both public and private, to improve
urban transport on the basis of fair competition for the right to provide transport services. The
Government will use all the necessary expertise available nationally and internationally to implement
the various elements of its reform program.
A. INCREASING URBAN TRANSPORT CAPACITY
It is the Government's objective to put in place the conditions conducive to the development of
a financially self-supporting urban transport sector capable of sustaining their operations and renewing
their vehicle fleets without financial support from the central and municipal authorities. However, given
that the reforms are still recent and the urban transport business is still perceived as a risky sector by
private investors, we believe that it would be unrealistic to expect that this objective can be attained in
the short term without the Government's intervention. In view of the urgent need to maintain and, as
necessary, expand the existing transport capacity of both the JSCs and private operators through
vehicle replacement, the Government has applied to the World Bank for a loan a portion of which will
be used for procurement of new vehicles to be passed on to operators in the five project cities on a
leasing full cost recovery basis. It will set up a leasing scheme under UzavtotransTaminot (UATT), the
procurement branch of Uzavtotrans Corporation, which would have the responsibility for the
establishment of new commercially independent bus maintenance centers in each of the five project
cities. The bus supplier will be responsible for maintaining the new buses under contracts with UATT.
The Government will privatize the leasing scheme by end of 2004.
The Government will ensure that the new buses to be procured under the World Bank loan will
be equally accessible to both the JSCs and private operators, who have won open competitive tenders
for urban bus routes, on a leasing basis.
- 55 -



B. INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
Strengthening of the City Transport Commissions and Departments:
Associations and Concerns , the regional subsidiaries of Uzavtotrans Corporation, have
historically been the location of all high level experience and skills in the formal urban public passenger
transport sector performing the functions as: i) provider of technical services to the operating
companies on demand assessment and operational planning ii) advisor to the City Transport
Commissions on network planning and franchising issues; and iii) administrator of the interests of the
state as residual owner of shareholding in the joint stock companies iv) direct controller of the
remaining state owned companies. This combination of these functions remains as a potential conflict
of interest.
Recognizing the importance of creation of a genuinely independent and commercially oriented
urban transport sector, the Government is committed to clearly separate the regulatory and operational
functions in the urban transport sector. To this end, it will continue the process of decentralizing the
responsibility for the planning functions, including network planning and supply and demand
assessment and procurement of transport services to the City Transport Commissions, and to devolve
operating responsibilities to independent commercial companies. City Transport Commissions will be
responsible for the development of a long term strategy for the procurement of public transport services
in the city and ensuring their safe operation.
The responsibility for appraisal and financial provision for any infrastructure investment in
trolleybus systems shall also rest with the City Transport Commission. The Commissions shall only
approve such investments when they are shown to be economically beneficial and consistent with the
overall urban strategy for public transport provision.
In order to perform these functions, it is necessary for the Commissions to be supported by a
technically skilled and adequately staffed secretariat in the City Transport Departments (CTDs). Under
the authority of the City Commissions, the main responsibilities of the CTDs will include (i) planning
and designing the public transport network on the basis of sound analysis of passenger demand; (ii)
administering the competitive tendering of bus route franchises; (iii) monitoring the performance of
transport operators; (iv) ensuring that the terms of the franchise contracts are complied with by both the
transport operators and the client including the adjustment of passenger fares whenever required.
The Government is aware that the skills available to the City Transport Departments are
presently inadequate, usually consisting of staff seconded from the oblast association of Uzavtotrans.
This is partly a consequence of their lack of finance, and of the traditional role of Uzavtotrans as the
planner as well as provider of services. In line with the adopted "Concept for the Development of
Urban Passenger Transport in the Republic of Uzbekistan", the government will take steps toward
strengthening the status and role of the CTDs and will ensure that these have permanent staff to carry
out planning and management work (including network planning and supply and demand assessment).
The Government's intention is that the CTDs will be fully staffed by December 31, 2000, and that
equipment and training necessary for the CTDs to fully perform their functions will be delivered by
June 30, 2002.
The Government (mainly the Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport) will assist the City
Transport Commissions and Departments in the perfornance of their functions especially through the
- 56 -



following: (i) review and improvement of the franchising arrangements; (ii) development of appropriate
procedures; (iii) creation of a data base incorporating the results of passenger flow surveys that will be
carried out on an annual basis; and (iv) development of appropriate planning methods. It will also
introduce measures to facilitate the provision of services (such as major transport demand surveys and
analysis, or social assessments).
The City Transport Commissions will be empowered to charge a fee on the issue of franchises
to help finance their operations. The maximum permissible level of that fee will be determined by the
Hokimiayt, after consultation with the City Transport Commission.
Development of the Transport Enterprises Under Uzavtotrans:
The operating units which constituted the state enterprise Uzavtotrans have been established as
independent legal enterprises. In most cases these have been established as joint stock companies
(JSCs), although some are retained under direct state control for certain reasons. The Government is
committed to make these units genuinely independent, and to stimulate competition between these
enterprises. Where there is only one bus park providing large bus services (Auto Column 2533 in
Bukhara), a plan will be developed and implemented to divide the company into two separate
independent units with a view to ensuring effective competition for large bus routes.
C. REGULATORY REFORM
The Government will further develop the franchising arrangements to ensure contractual
relationships which are fair, balanced, and create a predictable business environment for the
commercial development of public transport provision.
The Government has been cautious in limiting the initial franchises to very short periods, from
six months to one year, and flexible in adapting the procedures and decision criteria to its developing
understanding of the effectiveness of alternatives. Both of those characteristics were very desirable in
avoiding being locked in to unsuitable long tern commitments.
Firstly, while it is clear that the selection criteria and processes have been improved to increase
the incentives to provide a high service quality (reflected in the type of vehicle used) at the lowest
possible cost (reflected in the fare to be charged), there is scope for further improvement to secure those
objectives. For that reason, it is desirable to continue the process of refinement of criteria.
The Government recognizes that transport operators should not be so constrained by the tender
requirements as to be unable to propose a bid that would provide a reasonable profit. If the passenger
fare is capped, the bidder will be allowed to propose a combination of frequency and vehicle size and
age which ensures that operations are profitable.
Second, it is clear that the currently very short term of the contract makes investment in new
capacity risky, and makes it difficult to secure either loan or lease financing of new vehicles. For that
reason it is desirable to extend the duration of contracts to around the three to five year duration. This
will be achieved when the economy has stabilized and the business environment for urban transport
operators has become more predictable. The City Commissions will be given the duty of deciding on
the phasing of the introduction of new longer franchise periods, taking into account the stage reached in
the strategy for the development of a competitive, commercial, urban transport sector. Extension of
contract duration itself carries the risk associated with inflation. No commercial entity would be willing
- 57 -



to commit itself to a contract which specified the fare, or capped the fare, over such a long period,
unless there existed a well specified process for fare adjustment. To address this concern, the
Government will incorporate in the contract legal commitments to fare adjustments on an objectively
verifiable basis. It will also incorporate necessary provisions for operators to adjust, subject to review
and approval by tender commissions, the quantity of passenger transport supply in proportion to that
proposed in the bid in case there is a change in the passenger demand.
Third, it is desirable to develop a means of ensuring competitive pressure on the operators of
large buses. This could be achieved by defining the route requirements in terms of total capacity
requirement and fare cap, but allowing large and small vehicle operators to compete, on the basis of the
combination of vehicle quality and fare offered, for the franchise for any route.
The monthly pass system will be administered by the City Transport Commissions without any
distinction between operators.
The Government will clarify the legal powers of the City Commissions to enter into binding
legal franchise contracts with operators. Cities which do not adopt binding franchise contracts will not
be eligible for access to new vehicles acquired under the World bank loan or any other government
supported arrangement.
The Government will continue to devolve the overall responsibility for the franchising system at
the national level to the Uzbek State Agency for Automobile and River Transport which will review and
analyze the workings of the franchising system throughout the Republic. The Agency will regularly
review the franchising selection criteria and procedures to improve the competitive incentives to cost
reduction and quality improvement and prepare, for approval by the COM, proposals to the City
Transport Commissions for further improvements to the franchising arrangements.
The Government will encourage the establishment of one or several national bodies
representing the interest of private sector operators on the national and local levels.
The Government will continue to review, on an annual basis, the franchising arrangements and
introduce necessary refinements in consultation with the World Bank.
D. FINANCIAL REFORM
The Government is committed to the establishment of financial conditions such that any well
managed urban transport operator will be able to recover its costs fully and make a reasonable profit.
Compensation and financial sustainability.
While it is recognized that urban public transport operators provide an important social
obligation of carrying passengers with special needs, there is clearly a need to ensure that such
non-commercial obligations be properly funded. Currently there are seven nationally established
categories of passengers who enjoy the right to use urban public transport free of charge, with the
exception of taxi and route taxi. In addition, there are a number of special groups of population who
are entitled to pay discounted fare when using public transport. While these latter categories are
established by city municipalities and vary from city to city, typically these include pensioners,
students, and school pupils. Under the Urban Passenger Transport Law adopted in April 1997, the
compensation to the urban bus operators for the carriage of exempt and reduced fare passengers is to
- 58 -



be paid from the State Budget.
The Government will therefore ensure that, starting in 2001, compensation will be paid through
the City Administrations to the transport operators irrespective of ownership for the costs incurred in
the carriage of exempt passengers. This commitment will be stipulated in the franchise contracts. In
the next few years, given fiscal constraints, the Government will also ensure that City Administrations
(i) set the single trip passenger fares above the average transport costs per passenger to balance the
losses from the transport of those passengers who benefit from a monthly travel card at reduced price;
(ii) allocate the proceeds of the monthly travel card to all operators without discrimination and as a
proportion of the total number of passenger transported; and (iii) progressively increase the price of the
monthly travel card so as to maintain the cross subsidy to a reasonable level.
Seasonal Works.
Uzavtotrans urban transport operating companies have traditionally performed important
functions in meeting seasonal demands for movement of urban population to cotton fields for
harvesting, summer camps, etc. Although these services have usually been paid for and some operators
consider the payments to have been adequate, the payments have often been severely delayed
While the Government reserves the right to employ powers of using city passenger transport in
situations of unpredicted national emergency, it has already discontinued the current practice of
requisitioning the urban buses for meeting the demand for regular annual seasonal or occasional
services
(signed)
Secretariat of the Fuels, Energy, Transport and
Telecommunications Complex
Cabinet of Ministers
Republic of Uzbekistan
- 59 -












IBRD 30846
55'0                                                                                                           6S7 70'
.1                                                       -yUZBEKISTAN
KAAKHSTAN  / t           "'                                                                         URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
KAZAKHSTAN                        /      :      i               &) f                                                                                              l1:
.   PROJECT CITIES
45- reynru  , ., ~   '   '  j   "i   '/   W  9                                                    SELECTED CITIES
/   \\                                                                                               '-"'- qlt  t i-;;   X  \  A@    OBLAST CAPITALS
-(to                    i                      i    .:X:.'>,'    @ NATIONAL CAPITAL
M MAIN ROADS
.....' ht,:- -... --,,/-     RAILROADS
I                                         K  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'2 ~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
Irsl               \0~5i~                     t     L          \                                                                                              --   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
- 160    AevelofArolSea
f l            >,_     ,  53           -~~~~~~~~~~1960 1-ve of Ar  S..\-                                                                      KAZAKHSTAN                    < r_
N! ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ uu
N    o5 <S-.Nukus  >    ,/'~'                                                                                K.....................................  <   <NX  >          ^KYRGYZ
,   I,.K'jl   ,,/   )     ', '         -     \                              -'                                                                        '   T              To                     < ,         REPUBLIC
9          2{0               0  /                                 K{                                   0\                                                                                    7/  Vs                             To
AydorkoIcfubnoi                                A       - -.                           4 T I  J '
~~~~~~5'~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 50  6b  70~Hfl v8oo*->\,                                                                                                                       i                -cr h4  s/j-          rco/ AIKSA
N1                           NaZ N                  Dz,i-ak r' -    i.L                                               I I,,-o
T h ,s mo vo INAoro Op 0o   2s so 75e 1015WOiomerld DecO                                               Bubryi                             .0'p  Kvli                )  t 
'hbudo coo deooonnde0horonrolURKMENISTAN                                                        .TN_                                        "0       0         2            50 7 000Mbo"   t 9<  FHAITN'o
ISL~~A        ZI CRAKN 6 I   . ,'FHAS T A N                                                                               I,CaI.R.  OF C                                 IR'6  '65   \   T o /7
Arm2
/   \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hi
~~~~Son4'7~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ec 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/ TURKMNISTAN    y0--~vTCHINAENISTAN 
OF IAN                       - -INTRNATONA   60                                                                                                                                               T,4AKITAN
-5w  60,  70~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          ZT)~      ~    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ARL20



