                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 35978

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (SCL-45470 PPFB-P3320)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$29.0 MILLION

                                  TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                      UZBEKISTAN

                                         FOR AN

                                   Urban Transport Project




                                    September 15, 2006




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective August, 2006)

                   Currency Unit = Soum
                         1 Soum = US$ 0.000815
                          US$ 1 = 1,227.28 Soums

                         FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 -   December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ATP                 Automobile Taxi Park (Road Transport Enterprise)
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
COM                 Cabinet of Ministers
CTD                 City Transport Department
GOU                 Government of Uzbekistan
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                 International Development Association
IFC                 International Finance Corporation
JSC                 Joint Stock Company
MC                  Maintenance Center
MoF                 Ministry of Finance
NPV                 Net Present Value
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PAZ                 Pavlovsk Buz Factory
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
UAART               Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport
UATT                Uzavtotrans Taminot
UTL                 Uztransleasing
UTP                 Urban Transport Project
UTS                 UztransSanoat
VAT                 Value Added Tax




                  Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
       Country Director/Manager     Annette Dixon/Martin Raiser, ECC08
                Sector Manager      Motoo Konishi, ECSSD
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Martha Lawrence, ECSSD

                                             UZBEKISTAN
                                         Urban Transport Project


                                               CONTENTS




                                                                                    Page No.
     1. Project Data                                                                     1
     2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
     3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
     4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
     5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             10
     6. Sustainability                                                                 11
     7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  11
     8. Lessons Learned                                                                13
     9. Partner Comments                                                               13
     10. Additional Information                                                        17
     Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              20
     Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              22
     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              25
     Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              26
     Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              27
     Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 28
     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             29
     Annex 8. Structure of Bus Industry in Uzbekistan                                  30
     Annex 9. Financial Analysis of the Bus Leasing Scheme                             31
     Annex 10. Terms and Conditions of Potential Lessors for Buses in Uzbekistan       39
Map IBRD No. 30846R

Project ID: P050508                                                  Project Name: Urban Transport Project
Team Leader: Martha B. Lawrence                                      TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 15, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Urban Transport Project                                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-45470; PPFB-P3320
   Country/Department: UZBEKISTAN                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General transportation sector (98%); Central government administration (1%); Sub-national
                            government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/11/1998                                     Effective: 09/30/2000                09/22/2000
     Appraisal: 10/22/1999                                         MTR: 05/31/2002                  05/31/2004
      Approval: 05/11/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 03/31/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN/UZAVTOTRANS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Annette Dixon                                  Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Martha Lawrence                                Jean-Charles Crochet
ICR Primary Author:             Mirtha Pokorny; Sevara
                                Melibaeva


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective of the Urban Transport Project was to develop efficient and sustainable urban
transport services in the cities of Samarkand, Namangan, Bukhara, Nukus, and Almalyk through (i)
increased supply of urban passenger transport services in order to satisfy demand; (ii) adequate
management of transport operations and maintenance of vehicles by transport operators; (iii) allocation of
bus routes franchises on the basis of sound competitive bidding process; (iv) sound planning of urban
transport systems and administration of franchise contracts; and (v) ability of the efficient urban transport
operators in the five cities to fully recover their costs.

Overall the objective of the project was in line with the Bank strategy in Uzbekistan as presented in the
CAS of March 10, 1998. The strategy acknowledged the government's cautious approach in liberalizing
the economy and implementing macroeconomic reforms. It emphasized the creation of incentives for deeper
structural reforms through carefully selected investment operations in sectors where the government was
willing to engage in policy dialog and experiment with structural changes. The removal of inefficiencies in
resource utilization in municipal services, infrastructure and social services was one of the areas selected
for Bank support. The Urban Transport Project was fully consistent with this strategy, as it was in a sector
where the government demonstrated during the early stages of project identification its commitment to
improve the regulatory and institutional framework of urban transport and to open the provision of the
services to the private sector. The proposed project was expected to support the satisfactory completion of
the already initiated sector reforms in five pilot cities, as well as to improve the delivery of services in those
cities by providing much needed transport capacity and improving the capability of urban transport
operators. The latter were mostly represented by publicly owned Joint Stock Companies (JSCs) at the
initial stages of competition with the private sector.

Previous Bank-financed urban transport projects in the region addressed the problem of cash starved cities
in the former Soviet Union by financing new buses to state enterprises while introducing gradual sector
reforms. This project departed from that gradual pattern. Bank management reluctance to lend to the
Uzbek public sector, coupled with the optimism of the project team on the benefits of private operations
and competition, were fortuitously met with a powerful champion of reform at Uzavtrotrans. During the
more than two years of project preparation which benefited from a PPF, and after a series of workshops,
study tours in London and evaluation of alternatives for the delivery of public services, the government
moved towards franchising urban bus routes in five pilot cities. Thus, one of the major politically difficult
decisions in this type of project was implemented up-front. The challenge for the project was to fine tune
the franchising system to make it viable and sustainable, and deliver new buses directly to the private
sector. Alternatives for doing so were limited in a country with very little financial intermediation, and the
decision was finally made to transfer the Bank-financed buses to the operators through a leasing company
that would be created under the project.

Achievements under the project were impressive, particularly for a project that involved several
components addressing different key players under a complex set of relations (see Annex 8). The main
achievement of the project is the policy reform that instituted municipal franchising of bus routes to private
operators. This resulted in increase competition and significant improvement in quality and availability of
transport services. The project led to:

     (i) improved reliability, efficiency, and affordability of bus transportation services in the five project
     cities resulting from greater competition in the bus market through development and progressive



                                                        - 2 -

     introduction under the project of transparent and fair route franchising arrangements for buses and
     minibuses;
     (ii) increased supply of public transport due mainly to a substantial increase in the share of the private
     sector transport operators as a result of competitive biddings for bus routes;
     (iii) improved capacity of the City Transport Departments (CTDs) through the implementation of
     appropriate training programs under the loan for urban transport planning and administration of the
     bus route franchising system; and
     (iv) improved institutional, financial and regulatory framework for the urban passenger transport sector
     as a result of the adoption of technical assistance recommendations under the project. Not a minor
     accomplishment was the creation of a fully functional leasing company (i.e. having in place working
     procedures, adequately trained staff, capability for evaluating lessees, sound financial management,
     etc.), which contributed to lower the financial cost of buses and improve the profitability of the
     operators.

During the initial phase of project implementation procurement problems caused substantial delays and
resulted in unsatisfactory rating of the project implementation progress. However, the development
objectives were achieved because policy reforms continued to progress.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged during the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The original components of the project as presented in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were:

(a)        Provision of new buses and establishment of a leasing scheme for these buses (US$ 23.46 million).
This component included (i) procurement of 350 new seven meter buses at an estimated cost of US$ 20.45
million (net of customs duties, local taxes, VAT); and (ii) provision of technical assistance for the
establishment of a leasing scheme, including (1) preparation of an operational manual covering policies and
procedures for selection of lessees, calculation of lease rentals, and administration of lease contracts; (2)
establishment of appropriate accounting, financial management, and information systems for the bus
leasing operation; (3) developing procedures for supervising the maintenance of buses; and (4) developing a
small group of competent staff and strengthening Uzavtotrans Taminot's (UATT) management capabilities,
all this at an estimated cost of US$ 0.58 million for the services and US$ 0.06 for office equipment; and
(iii) establishment of bus maintenance centers (including provision of facilities and workshop equipment
(US$ 0.29 million each) and an initial stock of spare parts (US$ 1.52 million).

The project also included services for (i) ensuring that the new buses were manufactured in accordance
with stipulated quality assurance procedures and conformed to the technical specifications; and (ii)
preparing a plan for privatization of the new bus fleet and leasing scheme before December 31, 2003.

(b)         Rehabilitation and repair of existing buses (US$ 3.7 million). This included (i) capital repairs of
60 Belde buses at an average cost of US$ 16,500 each; (ii) rehabilitation of 17 buses of 7m length at an
average cost of US$ 6,200 each; (iii) intermediate overhaul of the entire bus fleet in the five participating
cities at a total estimated cost of US$ 1.27 million; and (iii) procurement of spare parts for emergency
repairs and reconstitution of an adequate stock at an estimated total cost of US$ 2.42 million.

(c)        Strengthening of urban transport operators. (US$ 1.42 million). This included consultants' services
and training with an estimated cost of US$ 0.23 million to (i) improve the financial management of the
JSCs and the private transport operators (in particular their accounting and cost estimating systems, ability



                                                      - 3 -

to prepare bids for bus route franchises, and vehicle maintenance policies and organization); and (ii) design
and implement measures to improve environmental practices of the JSCs and related organizations,
including in particular the recycling of materials and safe disposal of wastes. In addition the component
included (i) US$ 0.52 million for the improvement of workshop buildings; (ii) provision of tools and
workshop equipment (at an estimated cost of about US$ 30,000 for each of the 17 JSCs operating in the
five project cities (totaling US$ 0.52 million); and (iii) provision of office equipment and software (at a
total estimated cost of US$ 0.16 million).

(d)      Improvements in the institutional, financial and regulatory framework for urban transport services
(US$ 0.32 million). This comprised consultants' services and training to (i) help the Central Government
improve urban transport policies and regulations, assist city administration in the management of urban
transport, and monitor development in the sector; (ii) improve the capabilities of the CTDs of the five
project cities in all their activities, in particular the collection of data, planning of urban transport
investments, designing of bus routes, administration and supervision of the franchising system, and
improvement of fare policies; and (iii) update the social assessment which was carried out in 1998, in order
to deepen the CTDs' knowledge of the population's urban transport needs (total estimated cost of US$ 0.23
million). The component also included the provision of office equipment and software for an estimated cost
of US$ 0.09 million.

(e)      Project Management (US$ 0.63 million). This included consultants' services and training to
support the PIU's activities, office equipment, software, and the incremental activities of the PIU related to
project management, including in particular office rental, operations and maintenance of office equipment,
travel, utility services, communications, supplies, audit of project accounts, and provision of adequate staff.

Uzavtotrans would have overall responsibility for implementing the project. For this purpose it put in place
a PIU to perform the monitoring, disbursement, accounting, supervision, coordination and reporting
functions related to the project. The PIU also had the responsibility for procurement of all consultants and
training services. Procurement of all project goods would be the responsibility of Uzavtotrans Taminot
(UATT), a large subsidiary of Uzavtotrans specialized in the procurement of new vehicles, spare parts, and
supplies for all daughter companies of the group.

Early in project implementation, by presidential decree dated June 4, 2001, a major reorganization of the
road transport sector took place in Uzbekistan. A key part was the liquidation of the Uzavtotrans, the
implementing agency of all project components except the component for the improvement of the urban
transport institutional, financial and regulatory framework. The liquidation of Uzavtotrans was a positive
step as it created an institutional structure that promoted competition in the road transport sector and was
more conducive to the achievement of project objectives, effectively starting the process of decentralizing
the sector. In particular, the move contributed to the creation of a leveled playing field by exposing the
publicly owned JSCs (previously under Uzavtotrans) to the increased competition of private operators.
This move was reinforced later in the project by measures to improve tendering rules for bus routes
allocation to avoid any tilting of the scales towards the JSCs.

The decree stipulated that the state holding company for procurement of goods and materials (Uzavtotrans
Taminot, which had been renamed UztransSanoat (UTS)) would take over Uzavtotrans responsibilities for
project implementation. As responsibility for procurement of most goods in the project, and establishment
of the leasing unit, was already under Uzavtotrans Taminot, the reorganization had minimum impact on the
project. However, the Loan Agreement and subsidiary Loan Agreements were amended to record the
change in executing agencies. The liquidation of Uzavtotrans resolved early stage problems of definition of
responsibilities with the PIU, since with the reorganization, the PIU went under the authority of UTS.


                                                      - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:
The main revisions to the project components were:

        The initial reduction of the number of new buses procured under the project from an original
specified amount of 350 to 200. The government justification for the reduced amount of buses was the
rapid growth of private operators.

        Early in 2002 UTS reviewed the feasibility of rehabilitating the Belde buses and concluded that it
would not be economically viable. Since the original analysis in 1998, the buses had been operated under
unsound conditions due to lack of spare parts and had deteriorated beyond repair. UTS proposed and the
Bank agreed to drop the component.

        In mid-2004, the UztransSanoat implementing agency proposed, and the Bank agreed to cancel (i)
workshop equipment and tools for the road Transport Enterprises (ATPs); (ii) some spare parts contracts;
(iii) technical assistance services for the privatization of the leasing company; and (iv) a few small value
goods packages and individual consultants. Implementation of new regulations and institutional reforms
supported by the TA during the project preparation allowed the private sector to take over a large portion
of urban transport operations. Thus, dropping these activities did not affect the achievement of project
development objectives. The freed resources, estimated at about US$ 1.9 million were reallocated to the
purchase of 100 seven-meter bus bodies. The project eventually required the two extensions of the loan
closing date. The first extension, from the original closing date of December 2004 to September 2005, was
granted because of procurement delays during the early stages of project implementation. The extension
was appreciated by the borrower because it allowed them time to complete the purchase of the medium size
buses, which have had a positive impact on the quality of services offered in project cities. The second
extension from September 2005 to March 2006 was granted to allow the borrower to complete the delivery
of 100 bus bodies. Since it is not clear that the leasing company will continue to lease buses on commercial
terms the bus procurement in itself is perhaps not replicable.

The decision to drop one component and to downsize substantially the largest planned expenditure under
the project, combined with the unexpected low price of the Russian PAZ buses finally purchased (about
US$20,351.59 per unit) generated a very large amount of project savings. Discussions on the alternative
use of these savings dragged for more than a year. Finally, in August 2004, the government requested the
cancellation of US$ 17.4996 million from the loan amount.             However, the project objectives were
successfully achieved despite the cancellation of part of the loan, as policy reforms continued to progress.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR finds the quality at entry to be satisfactory. The objectives of the project were consistent with the
objectives of the CAS and Government priorities. Project preparation was extremely thorough and, with the
help of the PPF, included in depth analysis of alternatives. Through a very intensive and fruitful dialogue,
the preparation team was able to expose Uzbek authorities to best practices in the sector, encourage them to
fully participate in the shaping of demand driven components, and contributed to develop full local
ownership of the project. Project design and preparation took place at the time the Bank was preparing a
major policy paper on urban transport ("Cities on the move: a World Bank urban transport strategy
review", The World Bank, Washington, D.C., 2002), which was prepared with the help of internationally
respected professionals in the field. Some of these experts were brought into the Bank's team, enhancing
the quality of the project. Even more importantly the Bank team became a trusted advisor of the Uzbek
government on the planned sector reforms. In fact, the main decision of franchising urban transport
services was implemented before the start of the project motivated by the Bank's technical assistance



                                                       - 5 -

during project preparation stage.

The project itself was well balanced, and benefited from a sound diagnostic of the needs of each of the
players in the sector: the national government, the local authorities, the executing agencies, the operators,
and eventually, the leasing company. Project preparation took into account the Bank's safeguard policies
including the development of an appropriate environmental management plan.                 Project risks were
appropriately assessed and addressed in the project design, and the Bank's worldwide experience with
similar projects was applied. In retrospect, the quality of project design could have been enhanced with
pre-negotiations preparation of procurement documents, a task that was time consuming and delayed
implementation and disbursements. There was no Quality Assurance group assessment of this project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The main objective of developing efficient and sustainable urban transport services in the cities of
Samarkand, Namangan, Bukhara, Nukus, and Almalyk was expected to be achieved through five specific
goals as described in 3.1 preceding. Achievements on those goals are discussed below: (Annex 1 provides
quantitative indications of the achievement of these goals.)

(i)      Increased supply of urban passenger transport services in order to satisfy demand. This
objective has been achieved. The supply of public transport substantially increased in the project cities.
Despite the delay in delivery of new buses, the significant improvements in quality and availability of
public transport services occured as a result of introduction of competitive tendering for bus routes under
the project. Efficiency and affordability of bus transportation services increased because of greater
competition in the bus market. This can be attributed to an increase in the share of the private sector (from
40% to about 70% during the 2000-2005 period). In addition, quality of bus fleet has been improved in the
project cities due to rehabilitation of the existing fleet, and provision of 200 new mid size PAZ buses under
the project. The private operators with access to financing for solely minibuses, were provided with an
opportunity to lease mid-size buses: 95 of new PAZ buses are leased by private bus operators (5 to purely
private and 90 to privatized former state-owned companies);

(ii)     Adequate management of transport operations and maintenance of vehicles by transport
operators. This objective has been achieved. The regularity and reliability of the services were improved as
confirmed by the Beneficiary Assessment carried out in March 2005 and the resulting statistics on total
number of passenger-space per km and bus utilization. It was supported by the substantial decrease of
complaints from the public received by the city authorities. Important conclusions of the survey were: the
majority of respondents in the cities of Almalyk and Namangan, 84% and 94% respectively, stated that the
quality and reliability of large bus services had improved as compared to two years before, following the
arrival of new buses procured under the project. However, 68% of respondents in Bukhara stated that the
quality of bus services had worsened as compared to two years before. This can be explained by the fact
that at the time of the survey, the new buses were not yet in operation in Bukhara.

(iii)    Allocation of bus routes franchises on the basis of sound competitive bidding process. The
institutional framework was strengthened and competitive tendering for bus routes was introduced under
the project. This was instrumental in the development of a fair route franchising system and pricing for
passenger transport services that eventually evolved into acceptable levels of competition and to tariff
levels adequate for cost recovery. The CTDs established City Tender Committees and fair tender rules
ensuring a transparent selection process. This objective has been achieved. Today, 941 urban passenger
routes operate in Uzbekistan, and over 93% of them are allocated on a tender basis. (See also section 10);



                                                       - 6 -

    (iv)     Sound planning of urban transport systems and administration of franchise contracts. This
    objective has been achieved. The institutional, financial and regulatory framework of the sector was
    substantially improved at the central level. Government issued Resolution 350 allowing the conduct of open
    tenders for the allocation of urban passenger routes. The planning of urban transport services and
    administration of the bus route franchising system were decentralized. CTDs were established within the
    municipalities in 30 cities and are completing the decentralization of the sector;

    (v)      Ability of the efficient urban transport operators in the five cities to fully recover their costs.
    This objective has been achieved with the recent fare level increase in the two project cities, Namangan and
    Bukhara, that were behind in terms of fare adjustments. This also includes the recovery of the costs of
    carrying privileged passengers by the operators.

    The evident improvement in the quality of urban transport in the project cities has stimulated the voluntary
    replication of the franchising model in more than 30 cities in Uzbekistan (table below summarizes the
    process spreading the franchising to other cities). The tendering process for the passenger route franchise
    is used not only for urban but also for suburban and inter-city routes.

    Franchising System Implementation in Uzbekistan, 1998-2006
   1998                             1999                                      2006
 GovernmentissuedResolution         GovernmentissuedResolution368            GovernmentadoptedCOM
350 allowing the conduct of open    allowing the conduct of open tenders for  Resolution (January 31) on
tenders for the allocation of urban the allocation of suburban, long distance improvement of passenger transport
passenger routes                    and international passenger routes        system in Tashkent
 Citiesoutsideofproject,            GovernmentadoptedResolution513           Tashkentstartedimplementingthe
except Tashkent, started            on the creation of the City Transport     franchising system
implementing franchising model      Departments under City Hokimiyats          Franchisetenderingprocessisused
                                     OverhalfofthecitiesofUzbekistan         for urban, suburban and inter-city
                                    adopted the franchising model             routes
                                                                               93%of941urbanpassengerroutes
                                                                              are allocated on a tender basis
                                                                               30CTDsareinplacecompleting
                                                                              the decentralization of the sector
                                                                               55%ofbuspassenger-kmis
                                                                              provided by private sector, 35% by
                                                                              JSCs, 10% by SOEs



    4.2 Outputs by components:
    Except for the changes mentioned in paragraph 3.4 preceding, the most salient issue of project
    implementation was that disbursement rates lagged substantially behind original estimates. In fact, four
    years after loan effectiveness and a few months away from its original closing date, only about 10% of the
    loan had been disbursed. The project preparation team foresaw a substantial lead-time of about two years
    for major disbursements to start as the leasing company had to be created before the purchase of new
    buses. However, estimates turned out to be too optimistic. Government's lack of familiarity with the
    Bank's procurement rules and reluctance to follow the Bank procedures delayed the procurement for
    considerable time. Decision on procurement of new buses had to be reviewed, questioned, and revised
    many time. The Bank insisted on a transparent procurement process and almost cancelled the loan.
    However, the issue was resolved, and the bidding for buses resulted in the price of $20,000, much lower
    than originally planned $58,000. As a result, major cost savings were achieved for this operation. The



                                                           - 7 -

delay in procurement decisions and in response from the Government on the use of the project savings
resulted in unsatisfactory performance rating in the overall project implementation progress during 14
months in 2003-2004. However, the rating was changed to satisfactory after the Government's decision to
cancel the project savings of the loan, and considering the significant impact the project had already had on
urban transport in project cities. The project objectives were successfully achieved despite the cancellation
of part of the loan, as institutional reforms were very successful. Most components of the project were
implemented and the output was as follows:

A.      Provision of new buses and establishment of a leasing company.

       A total of 200 seven- meter buses and related spare parts for their maintenance were procured
under the project. Delivery was completed in November 2004 and the buses were leased to eligible
transport operators in the five project cities and Tashkent Oblast. In addition, 102 bus bodies were added to
this component and its procurement was completed prior to the closing date of March 2006. In general,
there was a strong acceptance of these medium size buses by the traveling public, although the operators
had some reservations about their fuel efficiency. This component was completed at a cost of US$ 5.68
million, as compared to the US$ 20.35 million estimated at appraisal. The substantial cost reduction is
partly due to purchasing 200 rather than 350 buses, and partly due to cost savings.

       The new buses were planned to be maintained under a maintenance contract with the bus supplier.
This contract was to be paid out of the bus leasing revenues. However, in order to limit risks to the
supplier and to ensure the lowest possible maintenance costs, the project included the setting up of
maintenance centers, including provision of facilities and workshop equipment. The lease agreement
requires that all maintenance other than that allowed by the lessor is to be undertaken in these maintenance
centers and charged to the lessee. Maintenance Centers (MC) were established and are operational in the
five project cities, but at the time of the writing of this ICR it was too early to tell if they are a good
investment and generate the necessary acceptance of the operators.

       The legal establishment of the leasing company (Uztransleasing-UTL) was completed in mid-
2004. The process was supported by technical assistance to develop financial management and operational
procedures, agreements between UTL and the MCs, bus maintenance contracts between MCs and lessees,
model contracts to be used by UTL for bus leases, provisional agreements for prospective lessees, as well
as substantial support for the staffing and training of the company. The total cost of the technical
assistance was US$ 0.54 million. The loan covenant requiring privatization of the new buses and leasing
operations was met. The buses managed by Uztransleasing were originally owned by Uzavtotranstaminot
whose shareholders were not government-owned, so the buses were already in private hands. Nonetheless,
to comply with the spirit of the loan covenant, Uzavtotranstaminoat converted the leasing company into a
limited liability company (LLC) with a transfer of bus assets ownership to it.

B.      Rehabilitation and repair of existing buses.        As already discussed, the "capital repair" of the
Belde buses was dropped from the project and the component was limited to the purchase of US$ 4.11
million worth of spare parts for the rehabilitation of the existing fleet. Some of these parts were sold to the
bus operators, while others were used together with the bus bodies acquired under Part A of the project to
assemble additional buses in Uzbekistan for leasing.

C.        Strengthening of urban transport operators. This component was substantially revised, and
eventually dropped from the project. Early during the implementation period it was decided to ensure that
the training efforts and equipment needs should be demand driven and tailored to each operator. Thus a
local consultant was hired to carry out a survey of needs, a task that was completed in early 2005.


                                                      - 8 -

However, as the Road Transport Enterprises (ATPs) restructured, privatized, and gained "on the job"
experience, the component lost its main rationale. Also, because of their strained financial position ATP's
were unwilling to purchase equipment if procured by UTS. Thus, as already discussed, the budget
previously allocated to this component was reallocated to the purchase of seven-meter bus bodies.

D.       Improvements in the institutional, financial and regulatory framework for urban transport
services.    This project component was instrumental in increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the
delivery of transport services. With the help of technical assistance provided at a cost of US$ 0.17 million,
the main framework for urban transport investment, pricing policies and regulations was developed and the
central government capability to monitor developments in the sector was strengthened. The technical
assistance contributed to the decentralization of urban transport. City Transport Departments (CTDs)
were established in all project cities as an important project element. These departments, responsible for
route planning, administration of franchise contracts, and monitoring of public transport became fully
staffed and operational. More importantly, these CTDs have been created in a total of 30 cities throughout
Uzbekistan and in all 14 oblasts as a direct result of the project. In addition to the technical assistance, the
project financed equipment for the centers. This was distributed to them by UAART with substantial delay
and caution, only after receiving adequate assurances that the equipment would be used for its intended
purpose, i.e., the processing and analysis of information on urban transport operations and the social
assessments to deepen the CTDs' knowledge of the population urban transport needs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No ex-post economic rate of return was calculated for the ICR, since the available data are not sufficient
for a reliable quantification of the economic benefits of the project. The acquisition of the necessary data
would require an amount of time and resources that would not be justified. (For a more detailed discussion
on the difficulties of performing an ex-post economic evaluation of urban transport projects, refer to the
ICR for Russia's Urban Transport Project, 2003.) The financial sustainability of the leasing company is
questionable. Uztransleasing may not survive with its current terms and conditions that are not
competitively attractive in the commercial financing market in the country (see Annex 9). However, the
sustainability of the project and urban transport operators does not depend on the sustainability of the
leasing company given availability of other commercial financing options. The profitability of the transport
operators is dependent on the tariff level and the passenger flow as discussed below in 4.4. The willingness
of the consumers to pay for the cost of the services (assuming all economic costs are accounted for) is a
strong indication of the economic merits of the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial analysis is presented in Annex 9. The main finding of the analysis is that the leasing
company, when distributing its overhead costs over the 200 new buses, has a NPV of US$ 270,000 at a
discount rate of 12.5%. NPV is US$ 440,000 with the same discount rate, when the 102 newly assembled
buses are introduced into the leasing operations. The analysis of the bus operator's financial performance
demonstrates that the bus operator is financially viable both under the leasing scheme established under the
project and when using commercial financing options available in the country, given the sound pricing
policies currently set by municipalities and the current volume of passenger traffic (demand). These
conclusions confirm the soundness of the project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a substantial development impact, completely changing the paradigm governing urban
transport in Uzbekistan and bringing the country to the forefront of successful sector reforms in the region.
The institutional changes resulted in significant improvement in quality and availability of public transport
services despite the delay in delivery of new buses. The impact of the project transcended the five cities it



                                                     - 9 -

intended to cover, and produced a demonstration effect that resulted in the implementation of similar
reforms in most of the major cities of the country. There are still major challenges ahead and issues to be
addressed (see section 10 - Additional Information) but this is always true in a sector with the social and
political impact of urban transport.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Probably the only factor outside the government control affecting the project was the weak economic
conditions and economic stagnation among the general population that made bus tariff adjustments more
difficult politically. Nonetheless, tariff increases were implemented in three of the five cities and with some
delays in the final two cities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Three main issues subject to government control have had or may have an impact on project outcome: (i)
the legal and regulatory framework of the sector; (ii) tariff policies and sustainability; and (iii)
procurement.

Legal and Regulatory Framework. The government was instrumental in taking the decisive and timely
actions required for the successful implementation of the project. In 1998 the government issued Resolution
350 allowing the conduct of open tenders for the allocation of urban passenger routes. (Currently 941
urban passenger routes operate in Uzbekistan, and over 93% were allocated on a tender basis.) Following
the success of the franchising experience for urban bus routes, in 1999 the government issued Resolution
368 allowing the conduct of open tenders for the allocation of suburban, long distance and international
passenger routes. In 1999 the government adopted Resolution 513 effectively establishing the creation of
the City Transport Department under the big and medium size Hokimiyats. Thirty CTDs are already in
place completing the decentralization of the sector, including the responsibilities of setting tariffs, to the
municipalities.

Tariff Policies. On a less positive note, the problem of compensation to the operators for the provision of
services to privileged passengers could not be resolved under the project. According to the existing
legislation, compensation for the seven exempted categories of passengers are to be paid from the national
budget, while compensation for operators' revenue losses resulting from fare caps established by municipal
authorities are to be paid from municipal budgets. However, no compensations have been paid from the
national and municipal budgets since the above-mentioned legislation was adopted in 1994.                   The
postponement of these payments might eventually jeopardize the operators' slim profit margins, if tariff
levels do not continue to be adjusted as required.

Procurement. Lack of adherence to Bank procurement rules and inordinate delays to approve some of the
major contracts resulted in substantial delays in project implementation. By 2004, with only six months
before the original closing date, only 10% of loan funds had been disbursed. However, the project closing
date was extended and ultimately 40% of loan funds was disbursed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In general, the executing agencies were highly proactive in ensuring the successful implementation of the
project.   Considering their lack of experience with Bank projects, the executing agencies should be
commended for keeping under control most of the factors affecting the execution of a fairly complex
project. Probably an area in which UAART could have helped to expedite project execution was in the
process of the selection of some of the consultants, which was sometimes unduly delayed.




                                                      - 10 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the implemented project was about US$ 11.70 million, of which about 98% was financed
by IBRD, and about 2% by the GOU. The implementation of the project was achieved at a total cost of
only about 35% of the initial estimate, mostly because the new buses were purchased at a unit price of
about US$ 20,350 as compared to the unit price of about US$ 67,000 estimated at appraisal, and because
fewer buses were purchased (200 as opposed to the 350 originally planned).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the urban transport sector development in the project cities is likely. The
policy and institutional measures implemented under the project (and in fact even before loan approval)
provide a basic framework for a well-managed sector. Its evident benefits and users' approval make very
unlikely a return to the old bus system. However, the sustainability of the project and urban transport is
independent of the sustainability of the leasing company given availability of other commercial financing
options.. The leasing company bears the high risk of exchange rate increases and may not survive with the
leasing terms it offers. The main government emphasis in terms of sustainability should be in securing the
profitability of the operators through sound tariff policies and continuing the development of the CTDs'
capacity for franchise management and regulatory capability initiated under the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No new operation is being planned in the sector.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation was thorough and highly effective. The project preparation team headed an impressive
effort through technical assistance consultants and Bank staff to design a project that deviated substantially
from the well-known pattern of bus financing and heavy policy content. The tacit Bank-management
requirement of transferring the buses directly to the newly created bus route operators shifted the weight of
the preparation to the identification, selection and evaluation of the optimal mechanism to implement that
transfer. Alternatives such as on-lending through commercial financial intermediaries, Bank guarantees,
IFC loans, etc. were explored and finally the leasing mechanism was selected as the most viable. Thus,
project preparation involved not only the groundwork expected in most urban transport projects of this
nature, but also an incursion in completely "unknown waters", i.e. setting the basis for the creation of a
fully functional commercial leasing company in a country not particularly proficient in market rules. The
fact that the project accomplished its aims with the technical assistance bringing on board the national
government, the local governments, the leasing company, the executing agencies and the PIU attest to a
very professional and thorough project preparation. With the benefit of hindsight, further preparation of
procurement documents prior to Board presentation would have obviated some of the delays experienced
during project execution.         Based on the preceding discussion, project preparation is considered
satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank's missions visited Uzbekistan regularly three times a year to assess progress in the implementation of
the project. The supervision team, including the officials at the resident mission, engaged in candid and
enriching exchange of ideas with government officials and made commendable efforts to keep a rather
complex project on track. While the merit should be ascribed mostly to the executing agencies, supervision
teams were instrumental in providing the necessary technical guidance to implement the project.



                                                     - 11 -

Particularly noteworthy was the strict adherence to the letter and spirit of the legal agreements and the
stringent unsatisfactory ratings given to the project as soon as execution strayed from the expected pace.
The Bank correctly insisted on a transparent procurement process, almost canceling the loan at an early
project stage, but as a result achieved a major saving and financial sustainability for this project.
Supervision reports were comprehensive and meticulous, providing a clear picture of the main issues of the
project and the sector. A special in-depth assessment of the sector and the problems of the operators
complemented an already above average body of information.              Based on this, the ICR considers the
supervision of the project as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The ICR finds the overall Bank performance satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was actively engaged in project preparation and execution showing at all stages of the life of
the project a strong ownership and commitment to the idea of viable bus route franchises. This is evident
from the substantial progress in sector reform that took place prior to loan approval. The government was
open to new ideas and proposals and collaborated in generating the internal consensus to effectively
develop and implement the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
During the initial phase of project implementation the government's lack of familiarity with the Bank's
procurement procedures caused substantial delays. The Borrower's insistence to award the contract to the
bidder other than the lowest evaluated resulted in unsatisfactory ratings of the project and posed a risk of
suspending the loan. But once the issues were resolved, project implementation proceeded smoothly. The
government then implemented the project with diligence and was quite responsive to the recommendations
of the Bank and the executing agencies on institutional changes, an area in which actual improvements went
beyond original expectations. These include (i) the liquidation of Uzavtotrans and transfer of responsibility
of the management of the provision of transport services to the municipalities; (ii) establishment of city
transport departments with the responsibility to administer the franchising system; (iii) encouragement of
formation of private sector transport associations and their active involvement in the formal provision of
transport services; and (iv) establishment of the Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport with
the responsibility for sector regulation and licensing at the national level.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The borrower's performance throughout different stages of the project implementation was mixed: very
poor in the beginning stages with some procurement flaws but quite professional at the later stages.
Performance in policy development and implementation was however stellar throughout the project. The
problems in the beginning were offset by good performance later in the project, therefore, on average the
borrower's performance was satisfactory. The initial poor performance could be anticipated in agencies
with no previous experience with Bank projects. Responsibilities for project implementation were divided
among few agencies at different levels of government. Among them: (i) the UAART, responsible for
improving the national institutional, financial and legal framework for urban transport service, was
instrumental in ensuring the smooth creation and functioning of the CTDs and the monitoring of the system.
UAART carried out first rate annual reviews of the franchising system in the five project cities and came
out with sound recommendations for its improvement. UAART was particularly committed in ensuring
that the project resources reached the CTDs and were used as planned; (ii) the Republican Association
"Uztranssanoat" (UTS) was the key counterpart in project implementation, taking over from Uzavtotrans
after the latter's liquidation. Overall, UTS performance was very sound particularly after the initial project



                                                     - 12 -

execution period and once its staff gained the necessary familiarity with the Bank's procurement practices;
and (iii) performance of the municipal authorities in the five project cities was mixed, with some time
political interferences affecting the decisions of technical staff. CTD's did their best to perform their duties
even when many times their efforts were diverted to other than transport activities by the city mayors.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above discussion the ICR considers the Borrower's performance on average as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Thorough preparation is necessary for projects that embark on a challenging institutional transformation. In
the transition context, preparation budgets should allow for such thorough preparation to take place, rather
than rushing through to approval. Getting the institutional framework right before project start significantly
reduces implementation risks.

The Bank's procurement rules allowed to achieve cost savings that were unexpected and contribute to
financial sustainability. This should be advocated much more. Overestimated project budgets by a large
margin warrant closer investigation, as the costs of overly large commitments are ultimately born by the
borrower.

The amount of time taken to procure the new buses suggests that the Bank may underestimate the time and
effort needed to familiarize new Borrowers with the Bank's procurement rules. Some Bank ICRs suggest
that introducing a Borrower to a completely different procurement practice should in itself be considered as
a project objective and allocated comparable amount of resources as other objectives. Others consider that
the Bank should be also responsible for execution of activities that are unfamiliar to the Borrower, or the
outcome of the project may be endangered. A more pragmatic approach would be to (i) agree during
negotiations on the main procurement documents, so that procurement can start immediately after
effectiveness; and (ii) in cases of projects with large contracts that might involve important vested interests,
include high-level officials that might influence procurement outcomes in all procurement discussions or
seminars.

Beneficiary assessments can be a valuable monitoring and supervision tool. These assessments were
particularly useful in demonstrating quantitatively the extent to which the Uzbekistan Urban Transport
Project met users' expectations for improved bus services. Monitoring and evaluation systems must be
carefully designed to ensure that monitoring efforts produce data that are useful in assessing project
outcomes and impact. A lesson for future projects is to incorporate the social monitoring indicators into
the Borrower's monitoring plan, and for projects to provide sufficient resources to allow the Borrower to
take the lead in this work.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from UTS

    Republic of Uzbekistan
    Uztranssanoat Republican Association
    Industrial Transport Enterprises
    35, Qodiriy Street, Tashkent 700128




                                                      - 13 -

To: Ms. Martha Lawrence
    Task Team Leader
    ECA, World Bank

August 10, 2006
# 01/187

Dear Ms. Lawrence:

                                     Ref.: Urban Transport Project
                         Comments on the Implementation Completion Report

    We would like to express our sincere gratitude for your fruitful cooperation in implementing the
Urban Transport Project in Uzbekistan. Your assistance and contribution to the Project completion
have been invaluable. We are enclosing our comments on the Implementation Completion Report,
which was submitted to us as an Attachment to Letter # 02290/06, July 28, 2006.

We appreciate all your efforts.

Sincerely,

Mr A. Hamidov
Chairman of the Board
Uztranssanoat Republican Association


                                                                     Annex to Letter, August 10, 2006

                                               Comments
                                Uztranssanoat Republican Association

    Uztranssanoat Republican Association estimates the implementation activities under the IBRD
Project Urban Transport as successful in that they allowed achieving prominent progress in urban
transport operations across all Project cities.

    The original objective of the Urban Transport Project was to develop efficient and sustainable
urban transport services in the cities of Samarkand, Namangan, Bukhara, Nukus, and Almalyk through
a number of activities. All Project objectives were achieved.

    The Project was a catalyst of public transport reform initiated in Uzbekistan. Project cities
demonstrated that public transport management could be improved and labor efficiency could be raised
through carefully designed transformations with relatively minor investments into urban transport. It
should be pointed out that many other cities (outside of the Project) were able to achieve substantial
progress in transport reforms following the adoption of the experience accumulated within the Project.

    As to problems of urban transport in Uzbekistan, the Project rather revealed their complexity and
determined the ways of solution. Therefore the initial Project components were complemented at the
final stage of Project execution.




                                                - 14 -

    Achievements under the Project were impressive, particularly for a project that involved several
components addressing different key players. A total of 200 seven-meter buses and related spare parts
for their warranted maintenance were procured under the Project. In addition, procured were 102 bus
bodies and spare parts for rehabilitation of existing buses. The competitive franchising system provided
for increase in the share of private sector. Of no less importance was the creation of a leasing company
which contributed to lower the financial cost of buses and improve the profitability of the operators.
Furthermore, Maintenance Centers were established and provided with modern equipment for
maintaining the buses in pilot cities.

    Uzbekistan accumulated sizable experience in transport services management while being under
extremely complicated financial circumstances; it is in many aspects the Project that allowed for such
an achievement.

    The Association believes it necessary to continue the cooperation with the World Bank in the field
of transport reforms.




                                                 - 15 -

Comments from UAART

   To: Ms. Martha Lawrence
        UTP Task Team Leader


   Dear Ms. Lawrence:

        I would like to thank you for the prepared ICR; since I was on leave I am reacting to this with a
   slight delay.

        In my view, as a whole, the ICR is quite well-knit and clear in highlighting the status and
   implementation of the Strategy for Development of Efficient and Sustainable Transport Services in
   country's cities, first of all in piloted ones.

        Beyond a shadow of doubt, Component "D", aimed at improving the institutional, financial and
   regulative framework for urban transport services, despite its low share in Project's monetary terms,
   played an exceptionally important and pivotal role in the development of country's urban transport.

        The results of this Component and the entire Project are apparent: specially authorized City
   Transport Departments are in place in virtually all big and medium cities and most towns; competition is
   evolving in transport market; the number of private operators is spiraling; the quality of services is
   boosting up etc.

        Experience and positive outcomes of the Project, especially regarding the formation of urban
   transport management system with clear demarcation of employers' and contractors' functions, have
   been fully utilized by restructuring urban transport in Tashkent city, which, as you are aware, was the
   focus of several presidential and governmental legislative/regulatory documents during the first half of
   the current year.

        For me personally this Project meant an invaluable opportunity to meet and communicate with
   highly qualified professionals  I will always be remembering most of them with pleasure.

   Sincerely,

   G. S. Magay
   Head of Legal Department
   Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A




                                                    - 16 -

10. Additional Information

Main Issues During Project Implementation

The policy and institutional measures implemented under the project and during project development
provided a basic framework for a well-managed sector. They were instrumental in the development of a
fair route franchising system and pricing for passenger transport services that eventually evolved into
acceptable levels of competition and to tariff levels adequate for cost recovery. However, the rationale for
this assertion is independent of the sustainability of the leasing company and bus leasing in Uzbekistan. The
main issues that arose during the project implementation, and may arise in terms of overall sustainability of
the urban transport sector, are linked to sound pricing policies. The strengthened institutional setting and
sound tariff policies must ensure the profitability of the operators and strengthen the CTDs for franchise
management and regulatory capability initiated under the project.

Tariffs

The responsibility for fare control in the cities was originally with the regional (oblast) hokimiyats. In mid
2004, the responsibility for review and approval of fares was transferred to the city municipalities
(hokimiyats). This reduced delays in approval of proposed fare increases. In all five project cities, bus
operators are now allowed to charge passengers the 100 Soum (US $0.09) per trip, which is the fare level
needed to recover costs and generate profits. The sustainability of bus leasing however was questioned
during the project implementation due to low bus fares set by the City Hokimiyats in two of project cities:
Bukhara and Namangan, at 50 soum (US $ 0.045). The leasing company calculated that with a tariff of
100 Soum tariff the lease fees could be met. Following the Bank's recommendation and the UAART's
efforts, the fares in these cities were recently increased to 100 Soum.

Another issue that remains a problem for the bus operator's sustainable performance is a very high level of
exempt and illegal passenger patronage on bus routes offering full size buses. In all project cities this was
estimated at about 20%. There are a total of 7 categories of exempt and privileged passengers. Large
buses are obliged to carry such passengers by law. Microbuses are not obliged legally but in many cases do
carry them. A legal framework stipulating that the Hokimiyat should subsidize the bus companies for
privileged passengers exists. Such subsidies, however, have not been forthcoming in practice in any city
except Tashkent. Nevertheless, the currently adjusted tariff level of 100 Soum compensates for the losses
while the operators continue carrying privileged passengers.

Route Franchising Process

The profitability of franchising was ensured through: (i) regular adjustment of bus fares for inflation; (ii)
provision of the option to bidders to offer in their bids service levels below those recommended by the city
authorities, which gives them flexibility to match their operating and maintenance costs with the maximum
fare level established by the authorities and make a reasonable profit; (iii) putting to tender groups of
routes, rather than individual routes, that included both high and low-density routes whenever it was
necessary to avoid lack of competition for low-density routes; and (iv) elminiating illegal operators on
franchised routes.

The tender rules established a transparent selection process. Criteria established for selection of the
franchise are based on the scale and differentiated points system determined by the Tender Committee and



                                                      - 17 -

distributed to the applicants in the tender package before the tender begins. This allows the potential
applicant to estimate the chances for winning and the bidder may calculate his/her own points without
waiting for the results of the tender. The bidder with the highest number of points is awarded the franchise.
The number of required points for each route is determined by the selection committee before the tender
announcement.

The responsible body for the route franchising selection process is the City Tender Committee, created by
the CTD. The process of route franchising tender is structured in the following manner:
         (i)     Tenders must be announced by the City Tender Committee at least 30 days in advance.
         (ii)    The entire tender period is not to exceed 60 days from the day of tender announcement to
the day of selecting the winners.
         (iii)   Any judicial or physical entity, regardless of ownership type, must be registered in the
relevant region and licensed to operate passenger transport carries.
         (iv)    To receive the franchising tender documents package the applicant must submit a written
request and a fee ranging from 25,000 to 60,000 UZS ($25-$60) to the CTD. The fee amount is determined
by the City Tender Committee based on the expenses for advertising, facility rent for selection committee's
meetings, printing and other administrative costs incurred during the tender process.
         (v)     The Committee stops accepting the requests to receive tender documents 5 days before the
beginning of tender. Admission of tender applications ends 1 day before the beginning of tender.
         (vi)    The bidder with the highest number of points receives the franchise.
         (vii)   In cases of only one bidder, the Tender Committee has a right to award the route franchise
to that one bidder given that he/she accumulates the points above the minimum expected points for the
route or package of routes determined and provided by the Tender Committee in advance.
         (viii)  If the route has no bidders, the Committee has a right to temporarily award the franchise to
the operator without the tender.

The criteria used for evaluation include:
         (i)     Tariff level proposed by the applicant for the tendered routes: 10 point scale
         (ii)    Type of transport fleet, month and year of production: differentiated point scale for each
vehicle type set by the committee
         (iii)   Age of the transport fleet: differentiated point scale set by the committee
         (iv)    Total transport fleet capacity: differentiated point scale set by the committee
         (v)     Waiting intervals on the route during non-rush hours: differentiated point scale set by the
committee
         (vi)    Operating schedule of the transport fleet: 5 point scale
         (vii)   Total number of runs planned on each route by one bus daily: 5 point scale

In 2005, Samarkand CTD introduced an additional criterion for evaluating, on a 1 to 5 point scale,
measures proposed by bidders to ensure the safety of operations on franchised routes. The Bank
supervision team expressed concern about the subjective nature of this additional criterion and
recommended that the CTD discontinue its use. They suggested that safety measures be treated as
minimum mandatory requirements in tenders. This criterion was then removed from the evaluation process.

Route Franchise Selection Committee
The route franchise tender committee members are:
         (i)     Chairman of the Committee - - Deputy City Hokim on Transport Issues
         (ii)    Deputy Chairman - - Head of CTD
         Other members:
         (iii)   Representative of City Auto Inspection


                                                     - 18 -

         (iv)    Representative of Regional Branch of the Agency for Automobile and River Transport
         (v)     Representative of Local Administration for Demonopolization and Competition
Development
         (vi)    One or two representatives of Tax Inspection Committee (from different districts - rayons)
         (vii)   Representative of the Chamber for Production and Entrepreneurship

Franchising Period and Monitoring
Most franchising contracts in the project cities (except Nukus) have been awarded for one year subject to
extension for another year. There is no set limit as to how many times one year extensions are granted
without competition. If there are no problems incurred during the contract period and the monitoring
committee finds that the operator complied with the contract, the franchises can be extended without any
competition for many times. But if the selection committee sees that there is a new transport operator with
good quality buses in the market waiting to bid for routes, the route franchise may be opened for
competition even if the current franchise holder complies with the terms of the one year contracts.
According to officials, new routes are opening frequently and no operator is left out of business if their
route is taken away. However, the routes franchised for one year to the lessees under the Bank financed
project loan are not opened for competition if the franchise holder complies with the rules.

Monitoring is conducted through monthly reporting of transport operators to the CTD. CTD conducts
selective monitoring to check the compliance of these reports with the actual activity of operators.




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Adequacy of supply of urban transport             Baseline:
services in the project cities vis a vis          - Almalyk:         (i) 13.3; (ii) 20     - Almalyk:        (i) 14.5; (ii) 10
passenger demand as measured by: (i) the          - Bukhara:         (i) 10.2; (ii) 18     - Bukhara:        (i) 13.0; (ii) 15
total number of passenger-space x km              - Namangan:        (i) 6.6;  (ii) 20     - Namangan:       (i) 10.0; (ii) 15
supplied on an average work day; and (ii) the - Nukus:               (i) 8.5;  (ii) 15     - Nukus:          (i) 11.0; (ii) 15
average waiting time per passenger.               - Samarkand:       (i) 11.7; (ii) 20     - Samarkand:      (i) 16.0; (ii) 10

                                                  Target Values:
                                                  - Almalyk:         (i) 14.0; (ii) 12
                                                  - Bukhara:         (i) 12.0; (ii) 15
                                                  - Namangan:        (i) 9.0;  (ii) 18
                                                  - Nukus:           (i) 10.0; (ii) 15
                                                  - Samarkand:       (i) 15.0; (ii) 12

Adequacy of operational management and            Baseline:
vehicle maintenance by main urban transport - Almalyk                0.47                  - Almalyk           0.7
operators in the project cities as measured by - Bukhara             0.50                  - Bukhara            0.65
the coefficient of utilization of their bus fleet - Namangan         0.56                  - Namangan           0.66
                                                  - Nukus            0.4                   - Nukus              0.70
                                                  - Samarkand        0.5                   - Samarkand          0.68

                                                  Target Values:
                                                  - Almalyk          0.65
                                                  - Bukhara          0.65
                                                  - Namangan         0.65
                                                  - Nukus            0.6
                                                  - Samarkand         0.65

Fair competition in the bidding process for       Baseline:
bus route franchises in the project cities.       no bidding process in place.             Number of routes tendered: 236
                                                                                           Routes with >1 bidder-large bus: 2
                                                  Target Values:                           Routes with >1 bidder-minibus: 54
                                                  Number of routes tendered: 110           Route tender competition ratio
                                                  Routes with >1 bidder-large bus: 2       (no bidder/1 bidder/>1 bidder): bus -
                                                  Routes with >1 bidder-minibus: 50        38/63/5% minibus - 9/74/28%
                                                  Route tender competition ratio
                                                  (no bidder/1 bidder/>1 bidder): bus -
                                                  17/36/6% minibus - 6/11/34%

Quality of urban transport planning and           Baseline:
administration of franchise contracts by the      no CTD in place.                         Average CTD quality rating (1-5): 4.0
city administrations of the project cities.                                                Average CTD cost overrun: 6%
                                                  Target Values:                           Average number of trained CTD staff: 5
                                                  Average CTD quality rating (1-5): 4.0
                                                  Average CTD cost overrun: 0%
                                                  Average Number of trained CTD staff: 5
Annual ratio of operating expenditures to         Baseline: 0.94                           Latest estimate: 1.3
revenues for main urban transport operators Target Value: 1.3
in the project cities




                                                                    - 20 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of new buses procured                    200                                   200


Establishment of sound arrangements for the Completed                                 Completed
leasing of the new buses on a full cost
recovery basis


Number of Belde buses rehabilitated             Component deleted from the project    Component deleted from the project


Establishment of sound systems for financial - Almalyk: 4                             - Almalyk: 4
management and vehicle maintenance for          - Bukhara: 4                          - Bukhara: 4
urban transport operators (measured on a        - Namangan: 4                         - Namangan: 4
scale of 1 to 5)                                - Nukus: 4                            - Nukus: 4
                                                - Samarkand: 4                        - Samarkand: 4
Availability of sufficient tools and equipment  - Almalyk: 5                          - Almalyk: 5
for bus fleet maintenance (measured on a        - Bukhara: 5                          - Bukhara: 5
scale of 1 to 5)                                - Namangan: 5                         - Namangan: 5
                                                - Nukus: 5                            - Nukus: 5
                                                - Samarkand: 5                        - Samarkand: 5
Establishment of sound systems in the city      - Almalyk: 4                          - Almalyk: 5
transport departments of the project cities for - Bukhara: 4                          - Bukhara: 5
planning, tendering, fare policies, and         - Namangan: 4                         - Namangan: 5
franchise administration (measured on a         - Nukus: 4                            - Nukus: 5
scale of 1 to 5)                                - Samarkand: 4                        - Samarkand: 4


Number of staff of the central and local        Seventy five (75)                     One hundred and three (103)
governments trained in transport planning,
tendering, fare policies, and franchise
administration

1End of project




                                                                 - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                   Appraisal     Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate         Estimate            Appraisal
                          Component                               US$ million      US$ million
1. Provision of New Buses and Establishment of a Leasing             20.35                5.93                29.1
Scheme for these Buses
2. Rehabilitation and Repair of Existing Buses                         4.20               4.23               100.7
3. Strengthening of Urban Transport Operators                          1.23               0.00                 1.6
4. Improvement of the Institutional, Financial, and                    0.27               0.30               103.7
Regulatory Framework for Urban Transport Services
5. Project Management                                                  0.55               0.55                 100
6. Refunding of PPF Advance                                            0.50               0.40                  80

Total Baseline Cost                                                  27.10              11.41
 Physical Contingencies                                                2.71
 Price Contingencies                                                   1.35
                             Total Project Costs                     31.16              11.41
                                               Front-end fee           0.29               0.29
                    Total Financing Required                         31.45              11.70
Total financing amount includes Borrower's contribution, including payments committed for contracts under the
project but to be made after the closing date in 2006.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                 ICB              NCB                  2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                                 0.00             0.00            0.00             0.80              0.80
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
2. Goods                                25.25             0.00            1.10             1.65             28.00
                                       (25.25)           (0.00)          (1.10)           (0.00)           (26.35)
3. Services                              0.00             0.00            1.63             0.00              1.63
consulting services and                 (0.00)           (0.00)          (1.63)           (0.00)            (1.63)
training
4. Incremental Operating                 0.00             0.00            0.23             0.00              0.23
Costs
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.23)           (0.00)            (0.23)
5. Front-end fee                         0.00             0.00            0.29             0.00              0.29
                                        (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.29)           (0.00)            (0.29)
6. Refunding of the PPF                  0.00             0.00            0.50             0.00              0.50
Advance                                 (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.50)           (0.00)            (0.50)
   Total                                25.25             0.00            3.75             2.45             31.45
                                       (25.25)           (0.00)          (3.75)           (0.00)           (29.00)
Goods include procurement of 350 buses originally planned in the project.




                                                      - 22 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                ICB              NCB                     2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                 0.00              0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 9.11              0.00               0.57              0.00              9.68
                                            (9.06)           (0.00)            (0.42)             (0.00)            (9.48)
   3. Services                              0.00              0.00               1.14              0.00              1.14
   consulting services and                  (0.00)           (0.00)            (1.14)             (0.00)            (1.14)
   training
   4. Incremental Operating                 0.00              0.00               0.19              0.00              0.19
   Costs
                                            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.19)             (0.00)            (0.19)
   5. Front-end fee                         0.00              0.00               0.29              0.00              0.29
                                            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.29)             (0.00)            (0.29)
   6. Refunding of the PPF                  0.00              0.00               0.40              0.00              0.40
   Advance                                  (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.40)             (0.00)            (0.40)
       Total                                9.11              0.00               2.59              0.00             11.70
                                            (9.06)           (0.00)            (2.44)             (0.00)           (11.50)
   Goods include procurement of 200 buses (a decrease from originally planned 350 buses after revisions of Project
   components and cancellation of part of the loan), and of 102 bus bodies.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes goods to be procured through international and national shopping, direct contracting, consulting services,
       training, and PIU incremental operating cost.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                         Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                     Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 Bank        Govt.      CoF.         Bank         Govt.        CoF.       Bank     Govt.  CoF.
1. Provision of New Buses        19.99       0.36        0.00        5.87         0.06          0.00      29.4      16.7  0.0
and Establishment of a
Leasing Scheme for these
Buses
2. Rehabilitation and             3.13       1.07        0.00        4.11         0.12          0.00      131.3     11.2  0.0
Repair of Existing Buses
3. Strengthening of Urban         0.75       0.48        0.00        0.00         0.00          0.00       0.0      0.0   0.0
Transport Operators
4. Improvement of the             0.24       0.03        0.00        0.28         0.02          0.00      116.7     66.7  0.0
Institutional, Financial,
and Regulatory
Framework for Urban
Transport Services
5. Project Management             0.35       0.20        0.00        0.55         0.00          0.00      157.1     0.0   0.0
6. Refunding of PPF               0.50       0.00        0.00        0.40         0.00          0.00      80.0      0.0   0.0
Advance

   In the actual/latest section, the number of new buses procured is 200; in the appraisal section the figures represent




                                                          - 23 -

the procurement of 350 new buses. Amount financed by the Borrower includes payments committed for contracts
under the project but to be made after the closing date in 2006.




                                                        - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No Cost and Benefit Analysis was performed.




                                             - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                          No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                              (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                      Month/Year     Count               Specialty                          Progress      Objective

 Identification/Preparation
                 04/1994                         2     TM, C
                 05/1997                         6     TM, PTE, UTS, IE, C, OO
                 09/1997                         2     TM, PTE
                 03/1998                         3     TM, PTE, TE

 Appraisal/Negotiation
                 11/1998                         4     TM, PTE, TE, FA
                 11/1999                         2     TM, OO
                 01/2000                         1     FA

 Supervision
                 11/2000                          2    TM, OO                                   S             S
                 06/2001                          2    TM, OO                                   S             S
                 05/2002                          1    TM                                       S             S
                 11/2002                          4    TM, OO, FMS, LS                          S             S
                 06/2003                          3    TM, OO, LS                               U             S
                 12/2003                          3    TM, OO, LS                               U             S
                 06/2004                          1    STE                                      U             S
                 06/2005                          4    TM, LTS, C, STC                          S             S
                 05/2006                          4    OO, JPA

 ICR
                 11/2005                         4      TM, LTS, OO, STC                        S             S

Abbreviations:
Task Manager                   TM     Lead Transport Specialist  LTS
Principal Transport Economist PTE     Financial Mgt. Specialist  FMS
Urban Transport Specialist    UTS     Leasing Specialist         LS
Infrastructure Engineer        IE     Sr. Transport Economist    STE
Consultant                     C      JPA                        JPA
Operations Officer             OO     Financial Analyst          FA


(b) Staff:

        Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 No longer             Id/Prep included with
                                          supported by                         App/ Neg.
  Appraisal/Negotiation              Bank Information                                471
  Supervision                                   Systems                              615
  ICR                                                                                n/a
  Total                                                                            1,086
Notes: (i) SAP no longer gives detailed breakdown for ICR; (ii) The above figures exclude additional funds
received from trust funds to support Lending (Identification/ Preparation plus Appraisal/ Negotiations).
Source: SAP report, "Project Details at a Glance", query run on August 23, 2006.




                                                        - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.      Urban Transport Project - Project Appraisal Document,Report No. 18872-UZ, The World Bank,
Washington, D.C. April 20, 2000.

2.      Urban Transport Project - Loan Agreement between the Republic of Uzbekistan and International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Loan Number 4547-UZ, June 5, 2000.

3.      Urban Transport Project - Aide Memoires, The World Bank, Washington, D.C. 2000-2005.

4.      Urban Transport Project - Project Management Reports, Loan Number 4547-UZ, Project
Implementation Unit "Urban Transport", Republic of Uzbekistan, 2000-2005.

5.      Urban Transport Project - Report on the Results of the Annual Review of the Institutional
Arrangements and Bus Route Franchising System in the Cities of Samarkand, Bukhara, Nukus,
Namangan, and Almalyk, Loan 4547-UZ, Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport, The World
Bank, March 2004.

6.      Uzbekistan Urban Transport Project - User Satisfaction Assessment,Center for Social and
Marketing Research "Expert-Fikri", March 2005.

7.      Uzbekistan Urban Transport Project - Operational Manual on Establishment of Uztranssanoat's
Unit for Leasing of Urban Buses,Carl Bro a|s Consulting, November 2003.

8.      Uzbekistan Urban Passenger Transport Project - Improvement of institutional, financial and
regulatory framework for urban transport services, Dornier Consulting GmbHt, April 2003.

9.      Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Republic of Uzbekistan,Report No.
17376-UZ, The World Bank, March 10, 1998.




                                                - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Structure of Bus Industry in Uzbekistan




UAART is responsible for licensing & regulation of operators, has a national office and 14 regional
(Oblast) offices.

CTDs plan & administer bus routes in cities. There are total of 30 of them. CTD in Samarkand merged
with Regional UAART in Samarkand.

UTS is association of joint stock (29 bus repair companies, 3 are operators), has ~10 staff supported by
membership fees.

Regional associations - membership is bus operators located in region (Oblast), is supported by
membership fees.

UTT is supplier of parts & materials for transport industry, owned by 4 or 5 of the other members of UTS,
~90% of stock is owned by private companies.




                                                   - 30 -

Additional Annex 9. Financial Analysis of the Bus Leasing Scheme

The purpose of this analysis is to evaluate the financial feasibility of the bus leasing scheme established
under the Uzbekistan Urban Transport Project (UTP) and determine whether it is financially viable on a
going-forward basis. The analysis draws on the data provided by UzTransLeasing (UTL) and several bus
operators in the pilot project cities of Uzbekistan.

Main Findings

Based on assumptions described in Assumptions and Data section below, the analysis shows that the
leasing company, UzTransLeasing, is financially viable with World Bank financing but is not financially
viable with the commercial financing available in Uzbekistan. The lessee/bus operator is financially viable
under both the established leasing scheme and when using commercially available leasing terms.

Leasing Company
I.      If UzTransLeasing is responsible for the payment of USD 6.26 million (the loan amount associated
with the procurement of 200 new buses, parts for the new buses and associated overheads), the leasing
scheme under the project is financially viable and profitable for the period of the project (10 years), with
positive net present value (NPV) using a 12.5% discount rate.

II.     The loan also financed the procurement of engine kits and bus bodies, which UzTransLeasing is
assembling into new buses. Incorporating the 102 newly assembled buses and their additional cost (loan
amount of USD 2.08 million) into the leasing scheme would be very profitable for UzTransLeasing.
UzTransLeasing could offer much softer leasing terms for these buses (such as lower interest rate and/or
down-payment) and still remain financially viable for the period of the project (10 years).

III.    If the leasing company had acquired the 200 new buses with a commercial loan rather than World
Bank financing it would not be financially viable (negative NPV) because of the severe terms of the
commercial bank financing (20% interest, government guarantee and 5 year repayment period). This is true
even though the commercial bank financing is not burdened with the overheads of the World Bank loan and
therefore has a principle amount of USD 4.4 million.

Bus Operator
IV.     Under the leasing scheme, the bus operator is financially viable during the period of the project (10
years). However, the bus operator has negative cash flow in the first two years, which is difficult for many
small operators to manage.

V.      If bus operator financed the buses on commercial leasing terms and conditions, the bus operator
would be financially viable. (It is important to note that many banks and financial institutions are reluctant
to lend for buses to the transport operators in the regions due to profitability concerns during cotton season
when all buses are pulled to the cotton fields by Hokimiyats.) If the bus were diverted to public use during
the cotton season (likely), the operator would have a positive NPV, but a negative cash flow in the first two
years and a payback period of 10 years (the practical life of the bus). If the bus is not diverted during
cotton picking season, the operator would have high NPV, but negative cash flow in the first year and
payback period of up to 7 years. (During cotton picking season most buses except those leased under the
WB UTP are pulled for an average of 50 days by Hokimiyats to transport people to the cotton fields; the
payments are supposed to be made by the Hokimiyat, however, in most cases these payments are delayed or
not paid. Thus, these days are treated as lost days of profitable operation and recorded as loss/ bad debt in



                                                     - 31 -

the financial model. Tariff is 5,500 UZS per hour, serving total of 10 hours a day with loss/bad debt of
~UZS 2.75 mln per year.)

Scenarios

Below are the main scenarios used in the analysis of the leasing scheme. They are intended to explore the
range of various possible scenarios that may occur in the established leasing scheme going forward, and
test the viability of both the bus operator-lessee and the leasing company-lessor under these scenarios'
conditions.

Leasing Company
Scenario 1: This scenario describes the conditions currently existing under the IBRD financed project.
UzTransLeasing is responsible for the sub-loan amount and overhead costs associated with the
procurement costs of the new 200 buses (with the IBRD financing under the project).

               Assumptions:
               Number of buses for lease:       200
               Sub-loan amount:                 USD 6.26 million
                                               (Derived based on costs related to procurement of new buses and
                                               spare parts for new buses; overhead costs amount included is
                                               proportional to loan amount disbursed for this procurement.)
               Overhead Costs:                   embedded within sub-loan amount above (of ~ USD 460,000)
               Interest rate charged:            30.1%

               Results:
               Conclusion:                       Leasing Company is viable and profitable
               NPV @12.5%:                       UZS 298 million (USD 270,000)
               Pay back period:                  > 7 years

Scenario 1: Cash Flows of the Leasing Company

               9,000
               8,000
               7,000
               6,000
    UZS
               5,000
               4,000
               3,000
       millions
               2,000
               1,000
                  0


                  2001  2003  2005   2007  2009  2011   2013  2015

                        Cumulative incoming leasing payments (revenue)
                        Cumulative outgoing subloan re-payments




Scenario 2: This scenario incorporates scenario 1 and adds the 102 newly assembled buses to the leasing



                                                                  - 32 -

scheme.

                Assumptions:
                Number of buses for lease:                            200 previous + 102 new buses
               Sub-loan amount:                                       USD 8.34 million (cost/bus = USD 20,351)
                                                                     (Includes the sub-loan amount of USD 6.26
                                                                     million associated with the procurement of new
                                                                     200 buses and the cost of 102 newly assembled
                                                                     buses of USD 2.08 million (USD 20,351 per bus.)
               Overhead Costs:                                         embedded in leasing interest rate for 200 buses
               Interest rate charged for first 200 buses:              30.1%
                Interest rate charged for additional 102 buses
               (based on UzTransLeasing costs):                        16.39% (calculation shown below)

                Leasing Terms for Additional 102 Buses:
               Cost of one bus                                         USD 20,352
               Repayment period (months)                               80 months
               Down Payment                                            15.00%
               Interest and commission on loan                         8.35%
               Project overhead expenses                               0.00%
               Uztransleasing interest rate                            8.04%
               Total interest rate p.a. (8.35%+8.04%)                  16.39%
               Monthly principal payment                               USD 216

                Results:
                Conclusion:                                            Leasing Company is viable and profitable
               NPV @12.5%:                                             UZS 489 million (USD 440,000)
               Pay back period:                                      > 7 years

Scenario 2: Cash Flows of the Leasing Company

                14,000

                12,000

                10,000
    UZS          8,000

                 6,000

       millions  4,000

                 2,000

                     0


                     2001  2003  2005   2007  2009    2011   2013  2015

                            Cumulative incoming leasing payments (revenue)
                            Cumulative outgoing subloan re-payments




                                                                 - 33 -

Scenario 3: In this scenario, UzTransLeasing finances the original 200 buses through a commercial bank
loan rather than an IBRD loan. (See Annex 10 for terms offered in Uzbekistan for commercial loans).

                 Assumptions:
                 Number of buses for lease: 200
                Commercial loan amount:          USD 4.4 million (cost/bus = USD20,351)
                Overhead Costs:                  None
                Interest rate charged:             30.1%

                 Terms and Conditions of Commercial Banks (Based on information provided during meetings with
                 Asaka Bank and Capital Bank, Tashkent, Uzbekistan, during the Bank mission in June 2005):
                 Interest rate:                    24-28% p.a. (for loans in UZS); 16% p.a. (for loans in USD)
                Term:                              1-5 years
                Collateral:                        120-125% financing in the form of cash, property or guarantee
                                                   of a bank, third party or government (the latter to be approved
                                                   by the COM or Ministry of Finance)

                 Results:
                 Conclusion:                       Leasing Company is not viable
                NPV @12.5%:                        UZS -6,180 million (negative) (USD -5.6 million)
                Pay back period:                   N/A

Scenario 3: Cash Flows of the Leasing Company

                 16,000
                 14,000

                 12,000

     UZS         10,000

                  8,000
                  6,000
        millions  4,000

                  2,000
                      0


                      2002  2004  2006    2008  2010   2012  2014   2016

                              Cumulative incoming leasing payments (revenue)
                              Cumulative outgoing loan re-payments




Risks:
Although the leasing company is viable with the World Bank financing, its financial performance is highly
sensitive to the risk of having buses leased out 100% and the exchange rate fluctuations. If, for instance,
15% were not leased out, the result of scenario 1 (that assumes all buses are leased) would go from NPV of
positive $270,000 to NPV of negative $280,000. Exchange rate increases exceeding nominal 2.5% per
annum also would result in negative NPV (e.g., 2.6% exchange rate increases annually result in NPV of




                                                                   - 34 -

negative $10,000).

Bus Operator
Scenario 1: In this scenario, the bus operator has leased a bus from UzTransLeasing under the terms and
conditions of the established leasing scheme.

      Assumptions:
      Price of bus:                    USD 20,351
     Deployed during cotton           No
     picking season:                  (New PAZ buses leased under the WB UTP are exempt from this
                                      requirement.)

      Terms and Conditions of the Lease:
      Leasing term:                    80 months
     Down Payment:                     15% of original cost of bus
     Leasing interest rate:            30.1% p.a. (semiannually)
     Other requirements:               Third party guarantees from both the Regional Association of
                                      Transport Operators and Regional Hokimiyat
     Other fees or commission:        N/A

     Results:
      Conclusion:                      Bus Company is viable and profitable
      NPV @12.5%:                      UZS 22 million (USD 20,000)
      Pay back period:                 6-7 years

Scenario 2: If Bus Operator leased a bus under the terms and conditions of another commercial lessor
functioning in the country (not under the project's leasing scheme).

      Assumptions:
      Price of bus:                    USD 20,351
      Deployed during cotton          both events considered
     picking season:

      Terms and Conditions of the Lease:
      Leasing term:                    5 years (60 months on average)
                                      (Very few lessors offer leasing terms over 5 years, most vary 1-5
                                      years.)
     Down Payment:                     30% of original cost of bus
     Leasing interest rate:            25% p.a. (semiannually)
     Other requirements:              50% collateral in the form of property or bank guarantee
                                      (Usually third party guarantee is not accepted, but some accept
                                      government guarantees approved by the COM or MoF. Several
                                      lessors do not require collaterals.)
     Other fees or commission:        none
                                      (However, few companies may charge a one time fee of 0.5-0.75%.)




                                                     - 35 -

      Results:
      Conclusion:                      Bus Company is financially viable and profitable (with loss and
                                       negative CF in the first year)
     NPV (@12.5%):                    UZS 23 million (USD 20,900)
     Pay back period:                  6-7 years

      Results if deployed during cotton picking season:
      Conclusion:                    Bus Company is financially viable and profitable (with losses
                                     during initial four years and negative CF during initial two years)
     NPV @12.5%:                       UZS 7 million (USD 6,300)
     Pay back period:                  9-10 years

Risks:
For the bus operator's viability, the largest risk is the volume of passenger traffic. If it is reduced from the
assumed average of 700 to 550 passengers per day, the result of scenario 1 would go from NPV of $20,000
to NPV of $900. Exchange rate does not pose a large risk for the operator, unless the annual depreciation
exceeds 20%.

Assumptions and Data

 (I) Leasing Company
                                    Unit        Data         Explanation
 Revenue:
 Number of leased buses                  #          142      142 first year (accounting for delays in bus delivery
                                                             and lease contract signing time during the first year)
                                                             and 200 each year after
 Expenses:
 Number of employees                   people        13      Including the guards
 Annual average wage per employee      UZS       1,164,831 Total monthly wages for 13 employees is UZS 1.262
                                                             mln per month
        Rent per month                 UZS            0      No rent is paid (premises provided by
                                                             UzTransSanoat for free)
        Administrative expenses        UZS         12 mln
 Depreciation of PPE                     %          15%      On average 15% per year (20% for computers, 15%
                                                             for furniture, 10% for other)
 Taxes:
 Income tax                              %          9.4%     7.5% tax break until October 2005 (as a reward for
                                                             newly created company)
 VAT                                   UZS            0      The leasing company is exempt from VAT tax
 Tax on infrastructure                   %          8%       State tax for infrastructure development: 8% of net
                                                             income (after income tax)
 Environmental tax                       %          1%       1% of all operating expenses
        Property tax                     %           3%      Exempt till Oct in 2005; after Oct. equals 3% of PPE
        Tax on school education          %           1%      1% of profit margin
        Road fund tax                    %          1.5%     1.5% of profit margin
 Turnover tax                            %          0.7%     0.7% of profit margin
 Deductions                              %          31%      31% of all wages paid




                                                      - 36 -

(II) Bus Company-Lessee: data for one bus
                                           Unit   Data     Explanation
Revenue:
Bus fare (UZS)                              UZS      100
Cotton season fee per day (UZS)             UZS        0   Under the WB financed project, new PAZ buses
                                                           are not deployed during the cotton season and do
                                                           not incur cotton season losses. All other buses
                                                           are usually deployed for an average of 50 days,
                                                           with tariff of UZS 5,500 /hour serving 10 hours
                                                           /day. Since usually the payments for these days
                                                           are delayed or not made, they would be treated as
                                                           losses/bad debt in the model (~UZS 2.75 mln of
                                                           loss per year).
Days out of service per year (maintenance)  days      60   About 5 days per month on average
        Fully operational days per year     days     305   365 days less out of service days
        Total number of passengers per     people    700
      day
        Exempt passengers and free riders people      35   About 5% of passengers do not pay
      per day
        Number of full fare paying         people    665   Total number of passenger less non-paying
      passengers per day                                   passengers
Expenses:
Average annual run (km)                      km     88,000
        Fuel per 100 km                     liters   21.5
        Price per liter of fuel             UZS      235
        Labor needed for bus operation     people      2
      per day
Labor rate per person per month             UZS     50,000
Depreciation of buses                         %      15%   Accounted by lessee: 15% annually of the
                                                           original cost of bus (not the leasing cost clarify)
Lubricants*                                   %      4%    4% of fuel spending.
        Cost of 6 tires*                    UZS    660,000 Every 50,000 km 6 tires are replaced
        Other expenses*                       %       4%   4% of revenue
        Additional production*                %       3%   3% of revenue.
Taxes:
Environmental tax                             %      1%    125,600 UZS per month total for 25 buses, or 1%
                                                           of expenses
        Land tax                            UZS     64,992 135,400 a month total for 25 buses
        Tax on school education               %       1%   1% of revenue
        Road fund tax                         %      2.5%  2.5% of revenue
        Water resources tax                 UZS      3,792 UZS 7,900 per month for 25 buses total
        Pension fund deductions (social       %      0.7%  0.7% of revenue
      security)
Income tax (%)                                %      15%
* Figures taken from projected business
plans submitted by operators to the leasing
company.




                                                   - 37 -

(III) General Assumptions and Data:
                                    Unit    Data    Explanation
Currency Exchange Rate (UZS)        UZS     1,100   Same all years
Price of 1 bus                      USD    20,352   Average price of PAZ
Leasing Terms and Conditions:
Repayment period                   months     80    Semiannually
      Down Payment                   %      15%
      Leasing interest rate p.a.     %     30.1%    Payments made semiannually
Monthly principal payment           USD      216
Terms for Commercial Bank Loan
taken by Lessee to Finance Down
payment on the Lease:
Loan amount                         UZS   3,358,012 Equal to 15% downpayment on the
                                                    lease
      Interest rate                  %      21%     Average; range 18-24%
      Term                          years     2     Range 2-3 years
Grace period (years)                years     0     Usually none
World Bank Loan Terms and
Conditions (as amended)
IBRD loan amount                    USD  11,220,000 Total World Bank loan, of
                                                    Uztransleasing is responsible for the
                                                    sub-loan amount of ~USD 6.26 mln
                                                    associated with 200 new buses, or
                                                    ~USD 8.34 million if additional 102
                                                    new buses are assembled and leased.
Interest rate                        %      4.5%
      Repayment period (years)      years     14
      Grace period (years)          years     4
      Commission                     %      0.25%
      Annual libor (2005)            %      3.75%   Floating
Spread                               %     0.75%




                                             - 38 -

Additional Annex 10. Terms and Conditions of Potential Lessors for Buses in Uzbekistan




                                        - 39 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 30846R

                55                                                                                      60                                                            65                                                                        70


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UZBEKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nukus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT CITIES
                 To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     45
  45         Beyneu

                                                                                                   Aral                                                                                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES

                                                                                                    Sea                                                                       Syr                                                                        OBLAST CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                 Darya                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RIVERS

                                                                              Muynak                                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                         Amu                  1990 level of Aral Sea


                                                                                            Darya           1960 level of Aral Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KAZAKHSTAN

                                                                                                   Nukus                                                                                                                                                                                    KYRGYZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kzyl-Orda               Chimkent
55                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ay'radryS                                                  To               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Murgab            Murgab


                                                                          To                                 Urgench                                                                                                                                   Chirchik

                                                                       Ashgabat
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Chardarinskoe                                   Tashkent
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Vodokhranilishche                                         Angren
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Iangiul                Namangan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Almalyk                     Andizhan

                                                                                                                                                                                          Ozero                                                                               Fergana          Osh
                                                                                                                                                                                          Aydarkul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Gagarin                                  Kokand                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GulistanSyr Darya                                                    Murgab
  40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bekabad                                                            40

                                                                                                                                                                               Navoi                  Dzhizak                                               Leninabad



                                                                                                                                                          Bukhara                         Samarkand

   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                   TURKMENISTAN                                                                                                                                 Zeravshan
   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TAJIKISTAN
50  50                     60                     70                80          50                                                      Chardzhou

                                                                                                                                                            Amu              Karshi                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Dushanbe
                                 KAZAKHSTAN
                      Aral
                      Sea                                                                                                                                      Darya                                           Denau

                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                              Mary
Caspian                                                                                                                                                                                                   Shurchi

 Sea                         UZBEKIST

                                            Tashkent           KYRGYZ REP.
40                                     AN                                           40                               0   25 50 75 100 125 150 Kilometers                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kulyab
             TURKMENISTAN                                                 CHINA                                                                                                                Dzharkurgan
                                                   TAJIKISTAN                                                          0       25    50   75    1000 Miles                                                                                                         AFGHANISTAN
                                                                               80

 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL          I.R. OF IRAN                                                                                  Termez
      OF IRAN                          AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                                To
                        60                             70              INTERNATIONAL          60                                                                       65                                                                                        70
                                                                         BOUNDARIES                                                                                                         Mazar-e-Sharif                                                                                     PAKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    APRIL 2006

