Report No. PID6869
Project Name                     Uzbekistan-Urban Transport Project (+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Transportation-Urban
Project ID                       UZPE50508
Borrower                         Republic of Uzbekistan
Implementing Agency              Uzbek State Stock Corporation of Automotive Transport
(Uzavtotrans)
Mr. Kahramon Sidiknazarov, Chairman
6 Amir Temur St., pass. 1
Tashkent 700000, Republic of Uzbekistan
Environmental Category           B
Date This PID Prepared           September 24, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         January 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 15, 1999
Country and Sector Background
The Republic of Uzbekistan is the most populous of the Central Asian
countries, with a population of about 23 million, of which some 60% live in
rural communities. Agriculture is the predominant economic activity in this
landlocked semi-arid country, though there are also significant centers of
mining and manufacturing. Like other Central Asian countries that used to be
part of the FSU, Uzbekistan inherited a centrally-planned economic structure
and an almost complete absence of necessary market structures. Since
attaining independence in late 1991, significant progress has been made in
addressing key structural and macroeconomic issues, though often relatively
more slowly than in some comparable countries. The IMF and Bank have
supported the Government's comprehensive reform program by providing a
Structural Transformation Facility and stand-by arrangement (IMF), as well as
a Rehabilitation Loan (IBRD). Progress in building market institutions,
sectoral development, and improving social protection has been generally
satisfactory, with a considerable emphasis on investing in the modernization
of the productive sectors of the economy, leading to substantial investment in
joint ventures and in major state enterprises. However, there has been less
progress in structural adjustment, with the State still retaining and
exercising wide discretionary powers in the microeconomic management of the
economy, with relative prices often bearing little relationship to market
reference points.
As in the case of many other FSU countries, Uzbekistan inherited a relatively
well-developed transport infrastructure for a country of its income level.
Under central planning, the Uzbek economy was unusually transport intensive,
since the sources of raw materials, population centers, and centers of
economic activity were often located at enormous distances from each other,
with little regard for the cost of transport or for other considerations of
economic efficiency. With the development of market relations in the country
and the establishment of pricing structures and mechanisms more reflective of
the true cost of providing transport services, there has been a significant
drop in the demand for those services. However, the Government still does
retain a relatively significant role in the pricing of transport services,



with price controls or caps still in existence in several modes of transport.
And while the process of overhauling the regulatory framework for transport
has started, much still remains to be done to ensure that the regulations
adequately address the needs of the country's transport sector, as well as its
transition economy in general.
But the single most significant problem faced by the transport sector in
Uzbekistan is the deterioration of transport assets, and the unavailability of
funds to adequately maintain, rehabilitate, or replace them. With the drying
up of central Government subsidies, the previous system of funding collapsed,
leaving transport operators in the position of trying to provide the same
services with an ever-shrinking number of available vehicles and/or other
assets.
This lack of investment is especially evident and acute in the urban transport
subsector, particularly in cities other than Tashkent, where the operating
companies have for several years been unable to renew or rehabilitate their
vehicle fleets . In fact, their financial situation is so acute that those UT
companies cannot even afford to provide for the adequate maintenance of
vehicles, or appropriate spare parts for them . This results in a low
percentage of the vehicle fleet being available for service on any given day
causing severe capacity shortages and overcrowded buses and trolleybuses.
Though the formerly-unified road transport company, Uzavtotrans, has been
converted into more than 400 joint-stock companies, including 84 city bus
enterprises, those newly-corporatized urban transport operators are not able
to function as financially independent companies. In almost every city,
political decision-making bodies set urban passenger fares. These are
generally kept at levels much below those needed to ensure full cost recovery,
and bear little relation to the true cost of providing the service. In
addition to the low fare levels, the UT operators are obligated to transport
certain categories of passengers either free of charge, or at fares
substantially lower than those charged to full fare-paying passengers. The
companies are generally not sufficiently compensated for having to provide
these exemptions and privileges, but even current levels of subsidies provided
to them by the municipal governments place a heavy burden on those
governments' already strained finances.
Part of the shares in the large UT joint-stock companies are owned and held by
the State Property Committee, which delegates responsibility for their
management to Uzavtotrans. Uzavtotrans in turn delegates this responsibility
to its regional subsidiaries, the Oblasttrans organizations. Despite the
State's legal position as a minority shareholder, the fact that the remaining
shares remain unsubscribed means that in practice the State continues to be
regarded by company managers as having the controlling interest.     This is in
contrast to the status of the trolleybus companies, which are wholly owned and
operated by the Ministry of Domestic Community Services. Coordination between
bus and trolleybus services in operational and investment decisions is
generally very poor.
Capacity shortages in urban passenger transport have recently been partly
alleviated by the entry of private bus and minibus operators, mostly single-
owner operators of 7 to 15-seater vehicles, within the regulated fare
structure. The private bus operators' share of the total number of bus
passenger-trips varies from city to city, generally ranging from 15% to 50%.
The growth in private operations has been facilitated by the supplier's credit
available from Asaka Bank , in addition to informal sources of finance for
purchasing second-hand large or mini buses.
However, the private sector's increased participation in the provision of UT
services is severely constrained by the absence of a suitable regulatory
- 2-



framework, which would ensure the competition on a fair basis between the
formal and informal urban transport sectors. Another issue are the local
authorities' practices in implementing existing regulations , which de facto
deter the entry of new operators into the subsector, and therefore present an
impediment to competition. Indeed, the small private operators' role is
primarily seen as one to supplement the service of the large UT companies, on
those routes that experience the most critical capacity shortages. Finally,
an additional problem that the private operators face is the fact that vehicle
maintenance facilities are located within the State-owned companies, meaning
that the private sector is handicapped by a lack of alternatives to maintain
and repair buses.
Project Objectives
The project's main objective would be to increase the quantity and improve the
quality of public transport services in a sustainable manner in five medium-
sized Uzbek cities (Almalyk, Bukhara, Navvoy, Nukus, and Samarkand), through
the following: (i) renewal and rehabilitation of the vehicle fleets; (ii)
strengthening the policy environment and improving efficiency of public sector
management in the urban transport sub-sector; (iii) enhancing private-sector
participation in service provision; (iv) improving operations and management
of existing bus enterprises; and (v) improving cost recovery of State joint-
stock urban bus enterprises.
Project Description
The proposed project is expected to support investments in the five Uzbek
cities. The specific project components will be defined following completion
of the on-going preparation studies. Subject to further discussions between
the Government of Uzbekistan and the Bank, the project would tentatively
consist of the following:
Provision of new vehicles and rehabilitation of existing vehicles;
Provision of workshop tools and equipment;
Provision of spare parts;
Operational improvements;
Technical assistance and training; and
Supervision and monitoring.
Financing
Given the presently relatively low cost of labor in the country, as well as
the fact that most of the vehicles and equipment procured under the project
would come from abroad, it is expected that the foreign share of the project's
total cost would be about 80-, to be financed by the proposed Bank loan.    As a
result, the tentative amount of the Bank loan would be about US$60.0 million.
Project Implementation
Overall responsibility for implementing the project and coordinating the
activities in the participating cities will rest with Uzavtotrans . Within
Uzavtotrans, a Project Management Unit (PMU) will be set up, in which each of
the participating cities will be represented. The PMU will be the Bank's
counterpart agency for reporting progress on project implementation, and will
coordinate all administrative, procurement, disbursement, and supervision
functions for the participating cities. At the city level, a Project Manager
will be designated within each City Commission to manage and coordinate the
project (including supervising project implementation, procurement,
disbursement, and financial reporting) and act as the focal point for
communications with the PMU. Bank supervision of project activities will be
-3 -



strengthened by establishing appropriate mechanisms for reviewing annual work
programs submitted by each city. The implementation arrangements and the
specific functions and responsibilities of the PMU and the cities will be
discussed and agreed on with the Government during project preparation.
Project Sustainability
The proposed project would facilitate the development of sustainable urban
transport operations in each of the participating cities, which would be
achieved by making the sector more commercial and competitive based on the
transport operators' financial autonomy, including the ability to generate
internally adequate funds for vehicle maintenance and replacement. As part of
project preparation, appropriate accounting and management information systems
would be developed to support commercial activities by the joint-stock
companies. The financial position of the UT operating companies will be
strengthened to ensure full cost recovery. The fare structure would be more
closely linked to operational cost, with transparent subsidies for privileged
or exempted passengers.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
The proposed project would be the first Bank financed urban transport project
in Uzbekistan. However, the Bank is currently financing three other urban
transport projects in the FSU (one each in Russia, Kazakhstan, and
Turkmenistan), and one in Hungary. All three projects in the CIS are
progressing satisfactorily and achieving their development objectives. The key
problems affecting these projects to different degrees center on: (i) weak
planning and implementation capacity; (ii) insufficient experience with
international procurement practices; (iii) weak financial basis of operating
enterprises; and (iv) insufficient attention to maintenance of the new vehicle
fleet. More generally, experience has shown that the speed with which sector
reforms are likely to progress depends on the Government's understanding and
commitment, and may be constrained by the dominance of the public sector and
underdeveloped financial markets. The project in Kazakhstan has shown,
however, that major policy changes can be achieved (even within the context of
a "public sector" type project) provided that there is the necessary
political will, but that full success requires progress at the same time on
all policy fronts (regulatory, institutional, and financial). The proposed
project has been designed incorporating all these lessons.
Environmental Aspects
The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental impact. The
environmental benefits that it is expected to yield including the following:
(i) the new diesel-powered buses to be financed under the project will be less
polluting than the gasoline-powered buses in operation today; (ii) emissions-
control equipment will be procured to monitor bus emissions; (iii) CNG-powered
buses are being considered for part of the project; (iv) improved maintenance
practices and annual inspection programs supported by the proposed project
would reduce energy consumption by 15% to 209, resulting in a corresponding
reduction in gaseous emissions; (v) suppliers of new buses will be required to
furnish recommendations for proper maintenance of the engines when operating
on diesel fuel, so that engine performance and durability are not reduced;
(vi) procedures will be put in place for limiting harmful effects of the
disposal of non-recyclable engine fluids and old tires (petroleum products,
rubber, metal wastes, paints, batteries, etc.); and (vii) the work environment
in bus garages will be improved.
- 4-



Technical assistance will be provided to monitor emissions standards and to
implement a maintenance program. An assessment of the proposed project's
impact on atmospheric pollution levels will be carried out during project
preparation, including different parameters such as NOx, lead, and carbon
Program Objective Category
The project would essentially contribute to the Bank's environmentally
sustainable development objective through improvement in the capacity and
efficiency of urban transport operations. By developing the capacity of
institutions and helping to establish an appropriate framework for the
provision of urban passenger transport services, the proposed project would
also contribute to the economic management and private sector development
objectives.
Participatory Approach
As part of project preparation, all key stakeholders (including urban
transport users, private-sector, and business groups) will be consulted
extensively. Project preparation would also include a Social Assessment, to
elicit views of different interest groups, including households, transport
users, bus drivers, and public and private bus operators. The SA would be
used to: (i) assess public perception of service standards provided by
different transport modes; (ii) identify the most critical interventions
needed for improving urban transport services; (iii) analyze the relationship
between income and public transport demand, and users' ability to pay. A
participatory workshop will be held to disseminate the results of SA to all
interested groups.
Project Benefits
The economic analysis of the project will include the following: (i)
examination of the relative advantages of different vehicle types, sizes, and
costs for each participating city; (ii) an evaluation of savings in time,
vehicle operating costs, and other capital requirements, brought about by the
proposed investments; (iii) NPV and IRR for each of the major cities and
components; and (iii) the investments' distributional impact (the share of
benefits going to different income, social, or occupational groups).
On a more immediate level, the benefits of the proposed project would include
the following: (i) shorter travel and waiting times; (ii) enhanced access to
the job market for residents, especially those living in outlying districts
and with low incomes; (iii) enhanced transport planning and management
capacity in each of the municipalities; (iv) improvements in institutional
arrangements, resulting in more efficient public transport enterprises; (v)
strengthened financial and technical capacity of bus enterprises, including
better utilization of existing capacity; (vi) better management of bus
enterprises; (vii) enhanced opportunities for private providers of bus
services; and (viii) improved safety of bus services.
Project Risks
The Project faces substantial but manageable risks in line with other projects
of the same type. The main risks are as follows: (i) failure to restructure
the former Uzavtotrans companies to ensure genuine competition; (ii)
inadequate Public Transport Commission staff to plan and manage urban
transport-related functions; (iii) that the procurement of new vehicles under
the Bank loan be used as an instrument to drive out private operators; (iv)
insufficient management capability of the transport enterprises; (v) that
arrangements to package and allocate route franchises not be transparent and
- 5 -



objective; and (vi) that UT enterprises continue to lack sufficient financial
resources because of continued unsustainable fare exemptions and uncertain
subsidy allocations to compensate them.
As part of project preparation, agreement will be reached with the Government
to minimize these risks. The proposed project includes technical assistance
and training to strengthen the capacity of the implementing agencies, thus
also contributing to reducing project risks.
The average age of the vehicle fleet in small and medium-size cities
is nearly 10 years, with over 30t of the fleet being more than 12
years old, and virtually no new buses having been procured during the
last four years.
In most UT operators' workshops, there are virtually no spare parts
in stock. Original spare parts are substituted by improvised parts
manufactured "in-house" by the companies 'own mechanics, which do not conform
to the bus manufacturers' original specifications and result in
shorter service life for the vehicles. Some vehicles are simply
cannibalized for spare parts in order to fit them to remaining
vehicles.
On average, 30-35w of vehicles are unavailable for service at any
time, despite extensive efforts to keep vehicles on the road.
For 7-seater Damas vehicles produced by Uz-Daewoo.
In principle, private enterprises can enter the market by obtaining a
license ("patent") from a committee of the Cabinet of Ministers, and
subsequently being granted permission to operate in a municipality by the Hakim.
Formerly the Ministry of Automobile Transport.
Contact Point                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Jean-Charles Crochet, ECSIN
Tel. (202) 473-1159
Fax (202) 477-3378
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 25, 1998.
- 6 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-7-



