Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4547 UZ
Loan Agreement
(Urban Transport Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 5, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4547 UZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 2000, between the REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the 
Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Part D of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through 
the Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport and Parts A, B, C and E of 
the Project will be carried out by Uzavtotrans (as defined in Section 1.02 of 
this Agreement) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of 
this Agreement (the Loan) available to Uzavtotrans, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
Page  2
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as 
amended through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
“‘Euro’, and ‘EUR’ each means the lawful currency of the member 
states of the 
European Union that adopt the single currency in 
accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Community, as amended by 
the Treaty on European Union.”
(b)
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and payable 
to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall have 
the right to allocate and apply the 
amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the Loan Agreement as the Bank 
shall in its 
sole discretion determine.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
“Participating City” means any of the following cities: Almalyk, 
Bukhara, Namangan, Nukus and Samarkand; and “Participating Cities” means, 
collectively, all these cities.
(b)
“PIU” means a Project Implementation Unit referred to in paragraph 
2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement or any successor thereto.
(c)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
(d)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Bank on November 14, 1997, and on behalf of the Borrower on 
December 10, 1997.
(e)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement.
(f)
“Subloan” means a loan made by the Borrower to Uzavtotrans under 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(g)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement entered into 
between the Borrower and Uzavtotrans pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes 
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
(h)
“UAART” means Uzbek Agency for Automobile and River Transport or 
any successor thereto.
(i)
“Uzavtotrans” means the Uzbek Joint-Stock Corporation for 
Automobile Transport established pursuant to the Decree of the President of the 
Republic of Uzbekistan No. YP-538, dated January 8, 1993, or any successor 
thereto.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Uzavtotrans.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-nine million Dollars ($29,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to 
in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain 
in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of 
two hundred ninety thousand Dollars ($290,000). On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount 
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
Page  4
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, 
in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the 
first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or 
plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of 
the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the 
Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan 
other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) 
months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the 
Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C and E of the 
Project through Uzavtotrans, and Part D of the Project through UAART, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate public transport, 
administrative, technical, financial and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Page  5
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project the Borrower 
shall make the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to categories 
(1)(a), (1) (b), (l) (d), (2)(a), (2) (c) and (3) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to Uzavtotrans under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Uzavtotrans, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Bank which shall include, but not be limited to, terms and conditions set forth 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the 
Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall 
agree, to prepare semi-annual Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during 
the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and (B) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
Page  7
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the 
end of each six (6) calendar months a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause Uzavtotrans:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance of new buses procured 
under this Project against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound urban transport, administrative, technical, financial and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make 
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, urban transport, financial and environmental practices.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and Uzavtotrans;
(b)
PIU has been established within Uzavtotrans with structure, 
functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, have been selected 
for the purposes of Section 4.01 (b) for the first year of the Project 
implementation.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in 
the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and 
Uzavtotrans and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Uzavtotrans in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Page  8
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Mustakillik Square 5
Tashkent 700078
Republic of Uzbekistan
Telex:
Facsimile:
116360 IKBOL 
(998-71) 
133-6361
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
By /s/ S. Safayev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kiyoshi Kodera
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Page  9
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
(a) for Part A (1)
   19,900,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures,
100% of local 
(b) for Parts 
    3,800,000
expenditures 
A (2), B and C 
(ex-factory cost)
of the Project
and 80% of local 
expenditures for 
(c) for Part D 
       80,000
other items procured 
of the Project
locally 
(d) for Part E
50,000
of the Project
(2)
Consultants’
100% 
services and training
(a) for Parts
    1,000,000
A, B and C 
of the Project
(b) for Part D
      200,000
of the Project
(c) for Part E
      300,000
of the Project
(3)
Incremental 
      200,000
100%
operating costs
(4)
Refunding of 
      500,000
Amounts due 
Project Prepara-
pursuant to 
tion Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(5)
Fee
      290,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    2,680,000
TOTAL
29,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means operating expenses of 
PIU which would not have been incurred absent the Project including, but without 
limitation, expenses in respect of its local staff salaries, other than civil 
Page  10
servants’ salaries, office rental and furniture, utility services, travel, audit 
of Project accounts, operation and maintenance of office equipment, and 
consumable office supplies, based upon an annual budget acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments: (a) made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement; and (b) under Category (1) (a), unless the Borrower has: (i) 
prepared a manual of operational and financial policies and procedures; and (ii) 
established a financial management system with respect to the leasing scheme 
under Part A(2) of the Project; both acceptable to the Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and 
less than $20,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and (c) training 
and incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality, efficiency and 
sustainability of urban passenger transport services in Participating Cities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objective:
Part A:
Provision of New Buses and Establishment of a Leasing Scheme
(1)
Acquisition of approximately 350 new buses to strengthen bus fleets of the 
Participating Cities.
(2)
Establishment of the leasing scheme and procedures to lease new buses 
procured under this Project to private and state-owned operators in the 
Participating Cities, including setting up of maintenance centers.
(3)
Technical assistance for preparation of a plan for privatization of the 
new buses procured under the Project and bus leasing operations in the 
Participating Cities.
Part B:
Rehabilitation and Repair of Existing Buses
Rehabilitation, repair and overhaul of approximately 250 buses, including 
provision of spare parts and necessary materials.
Part C:
Strengthening of Urban Transport Operators
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to private and 
state-owned transport operators in the Participating Cities to: (i) improve 
their financial, management and vehicle maintenance capabilities; and (ii) 
design and implement measures to improve their environmental practices, in 
particular the recycling of used materials and safe disposal of wastes.
Part D:
Improvement of the Institutional, Financial and Regulatory 
Framework for Urban 
Transport Services
Page  11
Provision of technical assistance, training, office equipment and software 
to help the Borrower: (i) to improve urban transport policies and regulations; 
(ii) to assist the Participating Cities’ administrations in management of urban 
transport; (iii) to monitor developments in the sector; (iv) to improve the 
capabilities of the Participating Cities’ transport departments in their 
activities, in particular to collect data, plan urban transport investments, 
design bus routes, administer and supervise the franchising system, and improve 
fare policy; and (v) to assess the urban transport needs of the population of 
the Participating Cities.
Part E:
Project Management
Project implementation support for the PIU through provision of technical 
assistance, training, equipment, software, and financing of incremental 
operating costs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in
Date Payment Due
    Dollars)** 
October 15, 2005
  585,000
April 15, 2006
  605,000
October 15, 2006
  625,000
April 15, 2007
  645,000
October 15, 2007
  665,000
April 15, 2008
  685,000
October 15, 2008
  710,000
April 15, 2009
  730,000
October 15, 2009
  755,000
April 15, 2010
  780,000
October 15, 2010
  805,000
April 15, 2011
  830,000
October 15, 2011
  860,000
April 15, 2012
  885,000
October 15, 2012
  915,000
April 15, 2013
  945,000
October 15, 2013
  975,000
April 15, 2014
1,010,000
October 15, 2014
1,040,000
April 15, 2015
1,075,000
October 15, 2015
1,110,000
April 15, 2016
1,145,000
October  15, 2016
1,185,000
April 15, 2017
1,220,000
October 15, 2017
1,260,000
April 15, 2018
1,305,000
October 15, 2018
1,345,000
April 15, 2019
1,390,000
October 15, 2019
1,435,000
April 15, 2020
1,480,000
________________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of 
this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible 
with existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature and costing $500,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
Page  13
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract under Part B.1 of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first contract to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.1 above; (ii) the first 
contract to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part 
C.2 above; and (iii) contracts to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part C.3 above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
Page  14
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
Page  15
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank, on or about February 28, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and
(c)
review with the Bank, by May 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
2.
The Borrower shall establish within Uzavtotrans and maintain during the 
entire life of the Project a Project Implementation Unit with funds, facilities 
and resources, including qualified and experienced staff, necessary, as may be 
deemed by the Bank, for successful implementation of the Project.
3.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Uzavtotrans pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement shall include, but not 
limited to, the following:
(a)
The Borrower shall provide to Uzavtotrans a Subloan in Dollars in 
the amount equal to the total equivalent amount of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to categories (1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(d) and (2)(a), (2) 
(c) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The principal amount of the Subloan shall be repaid by Uzavtotrans 
to the Borrower in Dollars in equal semi-annual installments over ten (10) 
years, including a grace period of twenty four (24) months.
(c)
The principal amount of the Subloan repayable by Uzavtotrans shall 
be the equivalent of the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of 
categories (1)(a), (1)(b). (1) (d), (2)(a), (2) (c) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(d)
Interest shall be charged in Dollars on the principal amount of the 
Subloan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate 
payable by the Borrower from time to time pursuant to Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(e)
Uzavtotrans shall pay to the Borrower a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of Subloan promptly after effectiveness of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(f)
Uzavtotrans shall pay to the Borrower a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Subloan not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal 
to the rate payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
4.
The Borrower shall cause the buses acquired under Part A of the Project: 
(a) to be leased to private and State-owned transport operators in accordance 
with operational and financial policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank; 
and (b) to be maintained by an independent experienced vehicle maintenance 
enterprise/enterprises in accordance with a maintenance contract acceptable to 
Page  16
the Bank.
5.
The Borrower shall provide all necessary authorizations to the vehicle 
maintenance enterprise/enterprises referred to in paragraph 4 above for import 
of goods necessary for maintenance of the buses acquired under Part A of the 
Project during the post-warranty period.
6.
The Borrower shall cause Uzavotrans to: (a) prepare not later than by 
December 31, 2000, an Environmental Management Plan, acceptable for the Bank, 
and take actions for the implementation of this plan under a timeframe agreed 
with the Bank; and (b) afford the Bank an opportunity to conduct effective 
supervision and monitoring of the implementation of this plan.
7.
The Borrower shall cause Uzavotrans: (a) to have the leasing scheme 
established under Part A(2) of the Project periodically reviewed by a 
consultant, acceptable to the Bank, every six (6) months during the first two 
years of leasing operations and every year thereafter; and (b) to furnish to the 
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than two (2) months after 
the end of each such period, a report of such consultant with an assessment of 
the leasing scheme, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested.
8.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall cause Uzavotrans to have financial statements related to the 
bus leasing operations under Part A(2) of the Project audited every six (6) 
months during the first two years of the Project implementation and every year 
thereafter by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
9.
The Borrower shall cause UAART to: (a) have the urban bus route 
franchising system in the Participating Cities annually reviewed not later than 
by November 30, of each calendar year of the Project implementation starting 
with year 2000, in respect of its technical and economic efficiency; (b) afford 
the Bank an opportunity to discuss the result of such review with the Borrower; 
and (c) based on the discussion with the Bank issue as soon as possible, but in 
any case not later than by March 31 of the following year, instructions, 
acceptable to the Bank, to the City Commissions on Urban Transport of the 
Participating Cities designed to improve the methodology for evaluation of bids 
for bus route franchises, the terms of the bus route franchise contracts, and 
procedures for supervision of the bus route franchise contracts.
10.
The Borrower shall prepare not later than by December 31, 2003, a plan, 
acceptable to the Bank, for privatization of the new buses and bus leasing 
operations under this Project in the Participating Cities and take actions for 
the implementation of this plan under a timeframe agreed with the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2 and 3 set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
Page  17
$400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $7,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
Page  18
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund 
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement.
