Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB6586 
 
Operation Name 
Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit to the Kingdom of 
Lesotho 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central Government Administration (44%); General Industry and 
trade Sector (23%); Primary Education (11%); Secondary 
education (11%); Health (11%) 
Project ID 
P122783 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning 
P. O. Box 395 
Maseru, 100 
Tel: +266 22 310826 
Date PID Prepared 
May 9, 2011 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 5, 2011  
Date of Board Approval 
June 16, 2011 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Lesotho is a small, developing country, with a population of around 2.1 million.  Highlands 
constitute more than two-thirds of the territory and less than ten percent of it is suitable for 
cultivation. The country is endowed though with other natural resources; water, diamonds, and 
hydro-potential. It is completely surrounded by South Africa, and its economy is closely tied 
with it. South Africa is Lesotho’s largest trading partner, a major source of its imports and a 
market for its exports, especially water. The country is slowly transitioning from a 
predominantly subsistence economy that relies on remittances from abroad, to a lower middle 
income country that exports natural resources and manufactured goods
.
However its small size 
and lack of a diversified economy make it prone and vulnerable to economic shocks. 
Poverty rates are high, especially in rural areas. Data inadequacies make it difficult to obtain a 
clear picture, but as of 2002/03, approximately 37 percent of households in Lesotho lived on less 
than $1/day and about half of Basotho households lived below the national poverty line. Though 
real per capita GDP growth between 1981 and 2009 (averaging 3.3 percent annually) was above 
that for sub-Saharan Africa, high inequality (Gini of 0.66) and high unemployment (22.7 percent 
in 2008) has meant that the benefits of growth have not easily reached the poor.  
The country faces serious challenges on the human development front. One of the biggest 
challenges comes from the prevalence of HIV/AIDS: the country has the third highest HIV adult 
prevalence rate in the world at 23.6 percent. At the end of 2008, there were an estimated 280,000 
people living with HIV, of whom 21,000 were children. The total number of orphans is estimated 
Page  2
2
to be around 221,400.  The country also has the fifth highest Tuberculosis (TB) incidence in the 
world with 635 cases per 100,000 people. With 80 percent of TB positive patients also infected 
with HIV, the epidemic has dramatically increased mortality. Multi-Drug Resistant and 
Extremely Drug Resistant strains of TB are on the rise, threatening both Lesotho and the 
southern Africa region as a whole. On education, Lesotho has achieved substantial gains and 
gender parity in access since introducing free primary education in 2000.  However, the quality 
of education remains a concern. Close to 40 percent of kids drop out before completing primary 
school. There are also increasing pressure on the secondary schooling system.  
Macroeconomic conditions have deteriorated sharply after 2008, reflecting the adverse effects of 
the global economic crisis and the loosening of fiscal policy. The economic crisis has had a 
significant impact on the garment industry (which accounts for around 8 percent of GDP) with 
exports to the largest market, the US, declining by 18.1 percent in 2009/2010. Employment in 
the industry fell by roughly 10 percent. Diamond exports were similarly hit, with two mines 
closing down.  Consequently growth came down 4.7 percent in 2008 to 2.5 percent in 2009. The 
biggest shock however has come from the sudden decline in SACU revenues. These revenues, 
accounting for about half of total revenues, are projected to decline by about 16 percentage 
points of GDP in 2010/11 and 2011/12 in the wake of the global slowdown and the fall in South 
African imports.  
The slowdown has led to large fiscal and external imbalances.
 
The sharp decline in SACU 
revenues is leading to severe deterioration of both the fiscal and current account balances as the 
ability to increase domestic tax collections is limited. Consequently the government today faces 
difficult policy challenges. It has requested the assistance of development partners in its efforts 
to restore macroeconomic sustainability, while also meeting its long term goal of achieving 
higher and much more inclusive growth.  
On balance, the macroeconomic framework is sustainable and adequate to support the 
Government’s developmental objectives.  While Lesotho’s fiscal position has deteriorated since 
2009, its fiscal policy stance remains focused on keeping the fiscal deficit sustainable. The 
authorities’ strong adherence to fiscal consolidation in 2010/11 has contributed towards 
stabilizing the macroeconomic environment. As a result, risks to sustainability remain low. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The PRSC-3 is the third and final in a series of three annual development policy operations 
(DPO) supporting the Government of Lesotho’s development program laid out in its Interim 
National Development Framework and Growth Strategy, and is consistent with the Country 
Assistance Strategy of the Bank for FY10-14. 
The operation aims to support the Government’s development Strategy, and its medium term 
policy framework to restore macroeconomic stability in the wake of the global financial crisis.
 
It 
comes at a time when the Government of Lesotho is coping with the shocks precipitated by the 
global financial crisis which have affected growth and public finances adversely, and led to a 
significant deterioration in Lesotho’s near-term economic outlook.
 
The operation will support the government’s reform efforts to bring about long term sustainable 
growth and poverty reduction. It supports the government in the areas of (a) fiscal consolidation 
Page  3
3
and macroeconomic stabilization, (b) improving public expenditure management and Fiduciary 
Framework; (c) creating a conducive environment for private sector led growth, and (d) 
improving access and quality of basic services.  It is expected to support the government in 
maintaining macroeconomic stability, improving public expenditure management and 
strengthening its impact on poverty reduction, sustaining growth by creating a more conducive 
investment climate, improving the quality of basic education and enhancing support to orphans 
and vulnerable children.  
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PRSC program aims to contribute to the Government’s Interim Growth Strategy, and is 
consistent with its medium term policy framework to restore macroeconomic stability in the 
wake of the global financial crisis
.
Of the variety of reforms and policy objectives set forth in 
the Interim Growth strategy and the medium term policy framework, the PRSC series is 
structured to support the government’s strategy in the areas of (a) fiscal consolidation and 
macroeconomic stabilization, (b) improving public expenditure management and Fiduciary 
Framework; (c) creating a conducive environment for private sector led growth, and (d) 
improving access and quality of basic services.  
The proposed PRSC-3 is being designed and implemented within a harmonized framework for 
the provision of budget support in Lesotho comprising a multi-year Performance Assessment 
Framework (PAF) and a review process aimed at reducing transaction costs for the Government 
and the development partners providing general budget support.   
 
4. 
 
Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
18 
 Total 
18 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The PRSC is being prepared within the joint framework of budget support developed under the 
leadership of the Government of Lesotho (GOL) with three participating development partners, 
including IDA.  The other development partners are the European Union and the African 
Development Bank (AfDB). DFID, Irish Aid, and GTZ, while not providing direct budget 
support at present, have been participants in the process. In May 2006, development partners 
established the guiding principles of the budget support program.  It was agreed that a nationally-
owned poverty reduction strategy and an associated common performance assessment 
framework would provide the basis for the budget support.  It was also recognized that the 
program should align around the budget timetable and MTEF process and should be mindful of 
the need to ensure predictability in disbursements.  The program should aim for a judicious 
balance between realism and ambition in the overall results indicators that would set the basis for 
these disbursements. The Government welcomed this approach, noting the importance of budget 
support in securing the still fragile reform agenda whilst cautioning against the use of unrealistic 
Page  4
4
results indicators. The donors are collaborating to support Lesotho in implementing its 
development programs by providing financial and technical support in a coordinated manner.  
Annual joint reviews are organized, and the most recent one was conducted in November 2010.   
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits:
 The operation will help the Government of Lesotho (GoL) to maintain macroeconomic 
stability, while it continues to pursue a reform agenda that cannot be fully financed from 
domestic sources.  The reforms should enable Lesotho to preserve macroeconomic stability, 
make further progress in promoting private sector-led growth, improve public expenditure 
management and improve the delivery of services.  The alignment with the general budget 
support programs of the cooperating partners and the GoL, and a common set of indicators to 
measure progress, should ensure predictability of disbursements and reduce transaction costs for 
the government. 
 
Risks:
 There are three main risks to this project. These are: 
Macro-fiscal instability
.
A
slower than expected regional and global economic recovery would 
dampen demand for exports, reduce foreign direct investment, and keep SACU revenues low.  
This would put enormous pressure on what already is a tough fiscal adjustment process, 
undermine fiscal sustainability and/or jeopardize necessary social and capital expenditure.  
Government deposits accumulated at the Central Bank during the years of SACU revenue boom 
provide some cushion from shocks. Predictable and timely budget support, backed by analytical 
support and policy dialogue through the PRSC series and from other development partners, 
including the IMF, to aid GoL’s ongoing medium-term fiscal consolidation program, will help 
mitigate the risks.  
Policy slippages
.
The Government’s reform program is centered around ensuring fiscal 
consolidation through expenditure control, structural reforms to boost economic growth in the 
medium term and improving service delivery of key services. The run-up to local elections in 
2011 and the National Assembly elections in 2012 will test political will to push through 
necessary reforms and push forward the ambitious fiscal consolidation program. This risk is 
being mitigated in two ways. One, by strengthening the hands of the reform champions through 
the PRSC and more broadly the joint budget support framework. Two, through conducting 
reviews of the harmonized Performance Assessment Framework of development partners 
providing budget support which also bring in civil society and key stakeholders to monitor 
progress, strengthen accountability, and highlight the importance of continued reform 
momentum.     
Capacity risks
.
Weak institutional and implementation capacity across the Government is 
another source of risk to the program. Inadequate capacity slows the reform process, leads to low 
utilization of available resources and poor service delivery.  To mitigate this risk, the Bank is 
supporting government capacity building in public sector management and public expenditure 
management through two on-going ESWs.  Capacity building initiatives are also underway with 
support from other Development Partners in the reform of financial accountability protocols. 
 
Page  5
5
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty Impacts
;
A
rigorous analysis of the poverty and social impacts of the reforms supported 
by the operation is precluded by a lack of reliable recent information. However the poverty and 
social impacts of the reforms supported by the operation are expected to be favorable overall. 
The PRSC is expected to facilitate poverty reduction through three primary channels.  The first is 
by assisting the Government to maintain a growth-conducive macroeconomic and business 
environment, which will provide the necessary growth for poverty reduction and wealth creation.  
The second is through its continued support to improving public sector management processes, 
enhancing the Government’s ability to direct its scarce resources to high-impact expenditure 
programs designed to reduce poverty.  The third is by contributing to better service delivery, 
particularly to the most vulnerable sections of society: people affected by HIV/AIDS and 
orphans and vulnerable children. The impact of fiscal consolidation supported by the program on 
the poor is likely to be small. Fiscal consolidation is targeted at eliminating easily identified, 
unproductive expenditures which are unlikely to impact the poor. In addition, GoL has 
committed to a floor on social spending on the school feeding program, old age pensions and 
HIV/AIDS to continue to provide support for vulnerable Basotho.  
 
Environmental Impact
:
The proposed operation is not likely to have any significant positive or 
negative effects on the bio-physical environment. The prior actions supported by the PRSC will 
not have a direct effect on the environment, forests and other natural resources. Improvements in 
the business climate are however likely to lead to increased business activity, some of which may 
have potentially negative effects on the environment, such as those involved in industrial 
production. In addition, the proposed trade facilitation measures which are intended to contribute 
to job creation in export sectors, in particular the textile industry, could pose additional 
challenges for the management of industrial pollution.  Appropriate environmental and social 
safeguards instruments will need to be prepared for each project. The country’s regulatory 
systems and environmental legislation is adequate, with suitable legislation on environmental 
impact assessments (EIA) and corresponding institutions.  
8. Contact point 
Contact: Ashish Narain 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (+27) 12 348 8895  
Fax:  (+27) 12 348 7120 
Email: anarain@worldbank.org 
Location: Pretoria, South Africa (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  6
6
