Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
<Date> 
Report No.:  AB6364 
 (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)
 
Operation Name 
LS - Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Country 
Lesotho 
Sector 
Central government administration (44%);General industry 
and trade sector (23%);Primary education (11%);Secondary 
education (11%);Health (11%) 
Operation ID 
P122783 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT 
PLANNING 
Date PID Prepared 
February 14, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
February 24, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 26, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to 
proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 
Other Decision 
{Optional}
Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no 
other decisions are added
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
{This section should discuss whether there has been good progress on important institutional and 
structural reforms. Highlight specific measures taken by the government and supported by this 
proposed operation. Note recent macroeconomic performance and poverty reduction efforts, if 
supported by sustainable policies}
 
II. Proposed 
Objective(s) 
{
This section should describe the operation, including a clear, succinct statement of development 
objectives. It discusses the expected benefits of the proposed operation, expected results, and 
linkages to the Government’s program. 
}
III. Preliminary 
Description 
{
This section should describe the main policy areas where specific actions are supported by the 
proposed operation. A description of the prior actions should also be included in this section. 
Note how the proposed operation would support the government to pursue its policy objectives 
within a structured macroeconomic framework and how the operation would strengthen overall 
performance of the economy and contribute to poverty alleviation
.} 
 
IV. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Page  2
Poverty and Social Impacts  
{The Bank determines whether specific country policies supported by the operation are likely to 
have significant poverty and social consequences, especially on poor people and vulnerable 
groups. For country policies with likely significant effects, this section should discuss any 
relevant analytic knowledge of these effects and of the borrower’s systems for reducing adverse 
effects and enhancing positive effects associated with the specific policies being supported.}
 
Environment Aspects  
{The Bank determines whether specific country policies supported by the operation are likely to 
cause significant effects on the country’s environment, forests, and other natural resources. For 
country policies with likely significant effects, this section should discuss any relevant country-
level or sectoral environmental analysis of the borrower’s systems for reducing such adverse 
effects and enhancing positive effects.} 
 
V. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
18 
Borrower/Recipient  
IBRD 
Others (specifiy) 
 
Total  
 
VI. Contact 
point 
World Bank 
 
Contact: Ashish Narain 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5369+3160 
Fax:  
Email: anarain@worldbank.org 
Location: Pretoria, South Africa (IBRD) 
Borrower 
Contact:  
Title:  
 
Tel: 
   
Email:  
 
 
VII. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Page  3
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
