Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3303-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
May 6, 1982
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIIVALENTS
Currency Units       -      Kenya Shillings (KSh)
KSh 1.00             -      US$0.101
US$1.00              -      KSh 10.00
US$1.00              -      SDR 0.85128
MEASURES
Metric                           British/US Equivalents
1 kilometer (km)                -    0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (sq km)    -    0.39 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EAC        -    East African Community
EAPTC      -    East Africa Posts and Telecommuncations
Corporation
IDA        -    International Development Association
IFC        -    International Finance Corporation
KENEXTEL   -    Kenya External Telecommunications Company,
Limited
KPTC       -    Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government           -         July 1 to June 30
1/ Since September 1981, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at
a rate of SDR = KSh 11.95. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated
since that time. A rate of US$1.00 = KSh 10.00 has been used in
evaluating this Project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Kenya
Beneficiary:          Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC)
Amount:               US$44.7 million, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:                Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest of 11.6% per annum.
Relending Terms:      Government would provide funds, including proceeds of
the Bank Loan, for on-lending to KPTC at a minimum
interest rate of 12% per annum for a maximum of 15
years, including a maximum 4-year grace period.
Project               The project comprises the installation of:  (a) a
Description:          total of about 80,900 additional lines of local
automatic exchange equipment with associated cables
and subscribers' plant to connect about 75,000 addi-
tional main lines; (b) a total of about 7,100 termina-
tions in long distance exchanges; (c) three microwave
and radio systems and about 1,270 additional
channels; (d) rural carrier systems to provide about
200 additional channels; (e) two telex systems with a
total of 3,000 additional lines and connection of
about 500 additional subscribers; and (f) buildings
to house project equipment. The project also includes
consultants' services and training in association with
these installations.
Risk:                 The project offers limited risk in attaining
proposed institutional changes or securing
adequate financial performance. KPTC's management
can successfully execute the project. The principal
risk is the possibility of delayed physical
implementation due to procedural delays and to
unforeseen circumstances. In telecommunications
projects, comprising a relatively large number of
independent works and activities, as in this case,
delay in the completion of some items of works does
not generally prevent the utilization of other newly
created assets.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                        US$ Million Equivalent
Costs:                                   Local           Foreign            Total
Local facilities                           22.6            40.0              62.6
Long distance facilities                    0.7             6.9               7.6
Rural services                              0.3             1.3               1.6
Telegraph/telex facilities                  0.5             8.9               9.4
Buildings                                 14.1               -               14.1
Consultants/training                         -              1.1               1.1
Base Cost                            38.2             58.2             96.4
Contingencies                              15.2            11.4              26.6
Total Project Cost                   53.4             69.6            123.0
Capitalized Front-End Fee                    -              0.7               0.7
Total Financing Requirement          53.4             70.3            123.7
Financing Plan:                                  US$ Million Equivalent
Local          Foreign            Total
Bank                                        -              44.7             44.71
Government of Japan                         -              25.6             25.6
KPTC2                                      53.4             -                53.4
Total Financing                      53.4             70.3            123.7
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million Equivalent
Bank Fiscal Year           1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Annual                               5.2    14.6    12.6       8.6      3.7
Cumulative                           5.2    19.8    32.4    41.0    44.7
Rate of Return:       35 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 3739-KE, dated April 27, 1982
1/ Including Capitalized Front-End Fee of US$0.7 million.
?/ KPTC is exempt from customs duties on imported goods and
pays no income taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A
SECOND TELECOMMUNCATIONS PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Kenya of US$44.7 million to assist in the financing of a
Second Telecommunications Project. The loan would be repayable in 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest of 11.6 percent per annum. The
proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to KPTC at a minimum interest rate of
12% per annum for a maximum of 15 years, including a maximum 4-year grace
period. The Government of Kenya has reached agreement for additional
financing from Japan in an amount of US$25.6 million equivalent.
PART 1 - THE ECONOY
2.        A report entitled "Kenya - Country Economic Memorandum and Annex on
Agricultural Issues" (Report No. 3456-KE), dated June 1981, has been distri-
buted to the Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is
in Annex I. A Basic Economic Report on Kenya is now nearing completion.
Long-l'erm Economic Growth and Structural Problems
3.         Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement of
both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated indus-
trialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign, invest-
ment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be characterized
as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of organizational
forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a significant
amount of Government participation and guidance. The country has made a
smooth transition to new leadership following President Kenyatta's death in
*           1978.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation.  Total GDP grew at an annual average
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew
rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of agricul-
ture was stimuLated by redistribution of large estates to smallholders, rapid
diffusion of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder output.  Growth of manu-
facturing was made possible very largely by the expansion of domestic demand
due to rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production
was being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
5.         Following this period of rapid growth, the rate of growth of per
capita income declined substantially after 1974. Kenya remains a poor



- 2 -
country, still heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture.  Average GNP per
capita in 1980 was US$420. Agriculture accounted for more than a third of
GDP and about two-thirds of exports (other than refined petroleum products)
in 1978-81. Since the growth of the industrial sector has been-largely con-
fined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the principal source of
income in the rural areas where over 80% of the population live and work.
Kenya still has significant problems of poverty and underemployment.  It is
estimated that about one-fourth of the population have incomes which place
them below the absolute poverty line.
6.         The most fundamental problem Kenya faces is posed by the rapid
growth rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9%
per year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically,
partly the result of Kenya's past success in raising health and general
living standards, which has resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has
probably resulted in an increase in the country's already high fertility
rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to mount
on Kenya's limited arable land. Of Kenya's total land area of about 575,000
sq 'Km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially productive. How-
ever, on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only 9% can be regarded
as high potential land, with 9% of medium potential and 81% low potential
arid- and semi-arid areas. Thus, less than 20% of the land area has good
arable potential, and much of it is now densely settled.
8.         Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.  First,
there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramatically or ways
are found to increase the rate at which income earning opportunities in agri-
culture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into urban areas. Even if
the non-agricultural sector were to grow very rapidly, it probably will be
unable to absorb all the new urban labor force entrants, resulting in rising
urban unemployment and underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary pres-
sure has already been created by the growing demand for social services,
especially education. Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income
and alleviate poverty will be impeded by the relative lack of access to land
and education for the children of the poorest section of the population.
9.         A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past was based largely on investments in
simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent, manufacturing produiction has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African
Community (EAC) market. The scope for further industrialization along these
lines is limited, as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have
been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the sector increasingly depen-
dent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts, and therefore it
is vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange.  To maintain growth
it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of domestic
inputs and increased production for export.
10.        A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural out-
put, which has averaged only about 2.9% per year over 1972-79.  This reflects



-3 -
generally less favorable climatic conditions, a weakening of the structural
factors fueling earlier growth and problems of policy and institutional
support. The latter, which has been one of the most serious impediments to
sectoral performance, includes inconsistencies in pricing policy and inade-
quacies in marketing and input supply. In addition, the concentration of
land holdings, insecure land tenure issues and problems in planning, and
execution of agricultural projects and programs are inhibiting agricultural
growth. Measures to deal with these problems are essential to revitalize the
agricultural sector.
11.       Other problems are the slow growth and lack of diversification of
exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP, and the
rising cost of oil imports which has had an adverse effect on the balance of
payments. From 1964-74, the volume of exports expanded at an average annual
rate of 4.6%, but over the past five years, export volume has grown more
slowly. In 1980, export volume was 3% below the 1976 level. To some extent,
this is a reflection of production problems in agriculture and industry, but
it is also an indicator of the need to direct more resources toward export-
oriented activities.
Economic Performance 1974-1981
12.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulner-
able to swings in the country's international terms of trade. The GDP growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to decelerate in
mid-1977 with the rapid decline in coffee prices.
13.       During 1978-80, Kenya again experienced strong external shocks as a
result of the latest round of petroleum price increases and declining coffee
prices. The effects of these external shocks on balance-of-payments and
incomes were compounded by poor weather affecting coffee and maize pro-
duction. As a result, GDP growth slowed to 3.1% in 1979 and about 4.0% in
1980. GDP growth is estimated to have recovered somewhat in 1981 to 4.2%,
still not substantially greater than population growth. The trade deficit
rose sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted.
The balance on current account deteriorated from an exceptional surplus of
US$60 million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$650 million in 1978, while
reserves fell by US$200 million. In order to prevent further depletion of
the country's foreign exchange reserves, the Government introduced a program
of import restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp decline in imports and
reductions in Kenya's revenue gap and current account deficit in 1979. This,
together with increased external borrowing, resulted in a recuperation of
about US$179 million in gross reserves in the same year. The improvement in
the balance-of-payments proved to be short-lived. The increase in petroleum
prices, combined with the need for additional food imports, resulted in a 25%
rise in the value of imports in 1980. While exports rose by 16%, this was
not sufficient to prevent a rise in the current account deficit to almost
US$900 million and, despite increased external borrowing, a decline of US$195
million in foreign exchange reserves. Preliminary estimates for 1981 indi-
cate a moderate reduction in the deficit to about US$750 million.



- 4 -
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
14.        The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating
poverty through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of
social services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan
correctly identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a
development strategy appropriate to their solutions. It is sharply focussed,
explicit in its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints
on development.
15.        The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significiant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a
National Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land
use intensification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that
marketing and pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of
domestic and international prices and that the marketing system be made more
competitive and efficient to improve prices to farmers. Research and exten-
sion services are to be more closely linked to the needs of small farmers.
Finally, in addition to projects to increase larger scale commercial and
smallholder production, a series of integrated rural development projects in
semi-arid areas is proposed to redress the neglect in these areas.
16.        The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transi-
tion from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency
and export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of
tariffs and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a
five-year period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over
the next few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is
likely to be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protec-
tion. The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that review
and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government partici-
pation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will be
centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls for a
more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and inter-
vention.  However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial investment                        d
incentives to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally, while
there are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector can
play in the development process, the Plan is more specific in its recommenda-
tions for aid to small firms (provision of financial and technical support
and ending of unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the previous
Plan.
17.        The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African



- 5 -
countries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely
high (3.9%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors, and even
greater efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in
fertility.
18.       Due to Kenya's worsening financial and budgetary constraints, which
had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of the
Fourth Plan has been very slow so far. As a result, the Government had to
reassess the Plan targets and had already introduced a revised shortrun
economic program incorporated in Sessional Paper (SP) No. 4 of 1980, while
maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the original Plan
document. The Sessional Paper identifies and deals with Kenya's short- and
medium-term problems in a frank and consistent manner. It offers, among
other things, a revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the
country's urgent financial problems resulting from continuing budgetary and
balance-of-payments pressures.
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
19.       The Government is determined to carry out the strategy outlined in
the Plan despite adverse international and domestic circumstances and admini-
strative adjustments. In order to do so, it has devised and is executing a
program of structural adjustment.
20.       The Government's first lending operation in the program, which was
supported by the Bank Group and an EEC Special Action Credit, involves: (a)
revising of the Government's investment program to make it more consistent
with the country's new economic circumstances; (b) ensuring the country's
creditworthiness by improving external debt management and introducing better
planning and control of external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of
rationalization of the trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for exports
and ensuring that exports are competitive; and (e) reviewing and revising
interest rate policy to ensure that it is consistent with development
objectives. The operation has, on the whole, been carried out
satisfactorily. However, actions have been slower than anticipated in some
areas and more rapid in others. While the general thrust of the operation
has been maintained, attempts to execute the policy measures have revealed
some weaknesses in planning and administration that need to be remedied.
6          21.        A second structural adjustmnent lending operation is now under
discussion which, in addition to supporting continuation of the process of
rationalization of the system of industrial protection and improvement of
incentives for export, will include measures aimed at revitalizing the agri-
cultural sector, increasing domestic supplies of energy and encouraging con-
servation and policy initiatives in population.
22.       While the structural adjustment program should have a favorable
impact on the balance-of-payments over the longer term, the first years of
the 1980's are going to be difficult ones for Kenyan policymakers and for the
Kenyan economy. The prospect is for an unfavorable world environment in
which the country's international terms of trade are likely to continue to
deteriorate. In addition, debt service obligations will be high because of
high borrowing associated with the large current account deficits of the past



- 6 -
three years. At the same time, the Government's fiscal operations are likely
to be subjected to extreme pressure because of slower growing revenues and
demands for increased expenditures. It is within this context that critical
policy decisions must be made involving a fundamental restructuring of the
pattern of development. Kenya's easy options have been exhausted and the
Government must now come to grips with the country's basic structural
problems.
23.       Given the adverse external circumstances, it is unlikely that posi-
tive growth of GDP per capita can be maintained during 1981-83. However,
growth prospects appear somewhat better from about 1983 onward provided the
Government's structural adjustment program is continued and there is adequate
external assistance to enable its successful implementation. The country's
terms of trade should also stabilize, the growth of external debt should
decelerate, and current account deficits should remain stable over the next
few years. It should, therefore, be possible to follow gradually more expan-
sionary policies and a growth rate of GDP around 5% per year should be
attainable during the second half of the decade. A feasible growth scenario
would then be one in which GDP increases at a pace equal to that of popula-
tion in the years 1982-83, then gradually accelerates, averaging about 4% per
year during the first half of the decade and over 5% by the end of the
decade.
External Debt
24.       The expansion of government and government-guaranteed commercial
borrowing in recent years has adversely affected the debt service ratio,
which has risen from 3.7% in 1977 to about 12.2% in 1981. This includes
service payments on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations.
The debt service ratio is expected to increase steadily from about 15% in
1982 to a peak of 21.5% in 1991. Debt service payments to the Bank in 1981
accounted for 14.3% of total debt service payments; the IDA share was 1.2%.
The Bank's share of total debt service payments is expected to rise to about
22.8% by 1986, while IDA's share would rise to 1.3%. The Bank is currently
holding 19.4% of Kenya's total outstanding and disbursed external debt, and
IDA 10.7%. The Bank's share is expected to rise to 24% and IDA's to about
12.5% by 1986. The expected rise in Bank exposure is attributable largely to
anticipated repayments of loans with short maturities. An additional factor,
however, is the gradual switch from other donors from loans to straight                     4
grants (including conversion of some loans to grants). Because of the long-
term balance-of-payments constraint, Kenya's development program will require
substantial financing in excess of public savings and available non-Bank
Group external capital combined, and we therefore expect to continue our
practice of financing a substantial portion of total project costs, including
some local costs when necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
25.       The developments affecting the EAC were outlined to the Executive
Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and in a state-
ment mnade on May 6, 1980 (SecM8O-364). One of the positive results of
the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner States' decision, taken
upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East African Development Bank --



- 7 -
one of the former Community's institutions -- should continue, and a revised
charter to this effect has been enacted.  The three Governments also
commented on the Mediator's proposal for the three Partner States and during
their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, decided to commence negotiations based
on the Mediator's proposals. They started on December 14, 1981 in Arusha and
*         continued in February in Kampala.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
26.       To date, Kenya has received 38 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 36 IDA credits amounting to US$1,386.2 million, which
supported 66 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the benefici-
aries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications, and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner states of
the EAC. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Kenya and to the EAC corporations, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
27.       The Bank Group has begun to reorient its lending program to assist
the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has meant the
inclusion in the program of non-project assistance, and a first credit in
support of the Government's structural adjustment program was approved in
1980. A second program is at present under discussion with the Government.
Recent economic work has also focused on the structural problems in specific
sectors, including the energy sector, and the Basic Economic Report, now
nearing completion, is expected to address comprehensively the issues of
income distribution, population growth and appropriate long-term agricultural
and industrial policies.
28.       Support of the structural adjustment efforts is, however, not
limited to non-project assistance. The selection of projects for financing
and their design have been influenced by the need to complement policy
actions under the structural adjustment program. Continuing priority has
thus been given to the agricultural sector, but increasing emphasis also has
been placed on sectors such as population and energy. Projects approved in
FY81 included a Fifth Education Project, a Railways Project, and a fourth
line of credit to the Agricultural Finance Company. So far in FY82, a
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project, a Third Forestry Project, a Cotton
Processing and Marketing Project and a Rural Health and Family Planning
Project have been approved, while operations that have been appraised include
the second stuctural adjustment program, an urban transport project, an
agricultural technical assistance project and a fourth power project.
Projects under preparation include a grain storage and marketing project and
an urban (small towns) project.
29.       Project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in con-
trast to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors
accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the more
pervasive factors have been institutional/management constraints, procurement
problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local financing.



- 8 -
These factors, together with delays in preparing and submitting reimbursement
claims have led to a deteriorating disbursement record.  A comparison with
the disbursement rate for the total of other loans/credits in the East Africa
region indicates that in 1976, Kenya's disbursement rate was 38.6% as against
20.7% for the region; while in 1980, Kenya's disbursement rate had decreased
to 8.5% as against 16.5% for the region.  Ar. in-depth review of the causes of
the poor project implementation performance and poor disbursements, has been
undertaken by the Bank Group and the problems and possible solutions, were
discussed with the Government in March 1982, at a country implementation
review meeting (CIR). The discussions were frank and constructive, and the
Government informed the Bank Group of several new initiatives to improve
performance. These included:
(a)   A task force had been established to monitor the administration of
agencies in seeking reimbursement from the Bank Group. The use of
Procedure III (direct payment to suppliers) would be extended to
more projects;
(b)   A Project Implementation Committee will be set up by June 1982,
comprising the three Permanent Secretaries of the coordinating
ministries (Office of the President, Finance and Planning) with a
permanent secretariat. A detailed reporting system will be
established. The Office of the President will be in overall charge
of this operation;
(c)    The Government is establishing priorities for rationalizing the
existing project commitments in order to live within present
financial and administrative limitations. The Government will
consider reducing the scope of some projects, eliminating some
altogether, and stretching out the implementation periods of others.
Some decisions on Bank Group projects were agreed during the CIR
between the Government and the Bank Group, including, for example,
the cancellation of a large portion (about $23 million) of the Sugar
Rehabilitation Project. It was further agreed to have another
meeting in September 1982 to review more projects in the same
fashion.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.       IFC has committed a total of US$59.1 million for eight operations
in Kenya. These include loans for five companies: Pan African Paper Mills,
Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.;
Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.); and Bamburi Portland Cement Company, Ltd. Also
included are a US$2.0 million credit line to the Commercial Bank of Kenya, a
US$5.0-million credit line to the Commercial Finance Company of Kenya and
US$1.3 million in equity to the Development Finance Company of Kenya. As of
December 31, 1981, IFC held for its own account US$44.3 million comprising
US$35.0 million of loans and US$9.3 million of equity. A Summary of IFC
Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.



- 9 -
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Sector Organization
31.       Public telecommunications services in Kenya are operated by two
corporations, the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC) and
the Kenya External Telecommunications Company, Limited (KENEXTEL). KPTC, an
autonomous government-owned entity under the Ministry of Transport and
Communications--created in 1977 following the break up in 1975 of the East
African Community (EAC) and the East Africa Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (EAPTC)--is responsible for the maintenance and operation of all
local and national telecommunications services, international telegraph and
telex services, and the operation of the international telephone services.
KENEXTEL is a state-owned company responsible for the technical maintenance
of the international automatic telephone exchange (the manual exchange is
maintained and operated by KPTC), and an earth satellite station located near
Nairobi. Under the proposed project, consideration would be given to the
consolidation of the sector (paragraph 57).
32.       KPTC is administered by a seven-member board of directors, each
having a three-year tenure but who are eligible for reappointment. The
Chairman of the Board, and three other members are appointed by the Minister
of Transport and Communication. Two other members are the Permanent
Secretaries of the Ministry of Transport and Communication, and of the
Treasury. The seventh member is the Managing Director, who is appointed by
the Minister after consultations with KPTC's Board of Directors. KPTC's
day-to-day business is administered by the Managing Director, assisted by a
Deputy Managing Director. While this organizational and administrative
framework is satisfactory at present, when KPTC's services expand in the
future, more attention will need to be paid to long-term planning and sector
strategies on the economic, financial, technical, and institutional aspects
of KPTC's development, as conceived under the proposed project (paragraph
56).
33.       As of January 1982, KPTC's telecommunications staff totaled 6,650
to operate 198,282 telephones, giving a staff ratio of 34 per thousand
telephones. This staff size is reasonable considering that KPTC operates:
(a) long distance facilities in remote areas using an extensive open-wire
system which needs a relatively high level of staffing; and (b) about 60
small capacity manual exchanges which require basic staffing depending on the
operating hours of the exchange and not on the connections in service. KPTC
has a well equipped central training school and a regional training school in
Nairobi. Intermediate and advanced-level telecommunications courses are
given at the central school. The regional training school provides basic and
vocational training. The University of Nairobi provides graduate courses in
telecommunications engineering, and KPTC recruits such graduates.
34.       As required under the first Bank-financed telecommuncations project
for Kenya (Loan 1680-KE), KPTC undertook a study of telecommunications
tariffs which resulted in a report, dated December 1980, in which several
issues relating to tariff structure were examined. To avoid numerous
disconnections and reconnections and to better ration existing access demand,



- 10 -
the report recommended increased charges for connection and reconnection and
the introduction of a subscriber deposit scheme. An additional September
1981 revenue review, required for the preparation of the proposed project,
found that the 20 percent of KPTC's subscribers with the lowest calling rate
produced only 2 percent of total revenue. This indicated that a significant
minority of KPTC's subscribers do not make frequent use of their telephones,
and thus, in this situation of telephone scarcity, monthly rental charges
should be increased to discourage connection of low volume users to the
system. As of April 1, 1982, rental charges in automatic exchange areas,
connection fees, and deposits were increased to satisfactory levels.
35.       Overall, KPTC's operating performance has been satisfactory both in
terms of rate of return and of internal cash generation, partly because of
current high telecommunications tariff levels. Its postal operations,
however, incurred losses in FY78-80 which were covered by telecommunications
revenues. As the Government's policy is that postal as well as
telecommunications services should be self-supporting, a review of postal
tariffs was made in August 1981, resulting in an increase in postal rates by
about 40 percent as from January 1982. Thus, telecommunications funds are
not expected to finance the postal service in the foreseeable future.
36.       At end-1981, KPTC's current assets for telecommunications
operations equalled about two times current liabilities, and its long-term
debt equalled about 31 percent of total capitalization (without considering a
possible revaluation reserve), which indicate a strong financial position.
The eventual final settlement of EAPTC's assets and liabilities (paragraph
39) is not expected to change this picture in a major way. At the end of
1986, KPTC is projected to have a current ratio of 1.4 and a debt/equity
ratio of 43 percent.
37.       KPTC is required to prepare and submit financial statements to the
Government's Controller and Auditor General within six months of the end of
KPTC's fiscal year. Up to 1979, however, KPTC was not able to produce
financial statements due to the split up of EAPTC, loss or unavailability of
documentation, and deficient accounting procedures. Under the first
telecommunications project, KPTC agreed in 1979 to review its accounting
procedures and to retain a financial adviser to assist in the implementation
of new procedures as necessary. Subsequently, KPTC's accounting has been
significantly improved. Further improvements, currently being studied or
implemented with assistance of its financial adviser, will bring about
continued positive future development. There is a need, however, to improve
budgetary control and cash management systems.  KPTC's management is taking
steps to strengthen current budgetary and cash management procedures and to
open credit lines with local banks.
38.        The Controller and Auditor General's Office has a unit of about six
people, who are permanently assigned to conduct external audits of KPTC
accounts. The audit report, together with an operations report, is submitted
to the Minister of Transport and Communications, who then presents it to
Parliament within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.  KPTC's
internal audit department was created in 1976 and it currently employs 15
persons, three with degrees in accounting.



- 11 -
39.       The final division of EAPTC's assets and liabilities among the
former member countries of the EAC is still pending. A mediator appointed to
advise on the division submitted his findings and recommendations to the
countries concerned in October 1981, but the acceptance of his
recommendations and the final settlement may take considerable time.  In the
meantime, Government has authorized KPTC to operate EAPTC's assets and
liabilities. However, these EAPTC assets and liabilities have not, and
should not, be declared property of KPTC (under the Kenya Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation Act of 1977, Section 116 (4)), until the
mediation effort is concluded. This situation implies that: (i) the
financial statements for 1976-81 as presented by KPTC, are provisional and
will be adjusted according to a future final settlement of EAPTC's assets and
liabilities; and (ii) the financial projections for 1982-86 are based on the
provisional statements for 1976-81, and, once a settlement is reached, will
have be to adjusted accordingly.
Status of the Sector
40.       As of January 1980, Kenya's telephone density of 1.2 telephones per
100 population was slightly above average compared with neighboring East
African countries. Existing telephone service is concentrated in the Nairobi
and Mombasa areas where the telephone density is 13.2 and 7.3 per 100
population, respectively. Telephone density in the rest of the country is
approximately 0.3 telephones per 100 population. In order to obtain a
telephone connection, a potential subscriber must register on a waiting
list. Connections are made in the order in which names appear on the waiting
list, i.e., according to the date of application. As of January 1982, the
official waiting list, which is maintained only in those areas in which
service currently exists, totaled about 64,100--37,000 in Nairobi, 5,400 in
Mombasa and 21,700 in the rest of the country. Waiting times for telephone
applicants in Nairobi range up to four years, depending on the exchange area.
41.       Traffic generated in automatic exchange areas by business and
government subscribers accounts for about 90 percent of all traffic. As
business, government and residential connections used for business purposes
generate almost all traffic during the congested peak calling hours, they are
the primary determinants of system capacity costs. The importance of large
business and government users is also illustrated by the fact that about
73 percent of KPTC's telephone revenue is generated by only 20 percent of the
total number of connections. A recent sample of subscribers in small towns
and market centers showed that calling rates are highest for the transport
and storage sector, and that the most frequent reasons for calling were
placing and receiving orders for goods and services, exchanging information,
and taking care of administrative matters. The pattern of long distance
traffic in Kenya reflects the fact that Nairobi is the center of the national
economy. More than 60 percent of all traffic generated in the national
network is directed towards Nairobi. Sample tests indicate that in small
communities over 50 percent of all calls made are directed towards Nairobi,
while in medium-sized towns almost 70 percent of the calls terminate in the
capital.
42.       Lack of timely investment, caused largely by uncertainties prior to
the breakup of the EAC and the EAPTC, and inadequate planning have caused the



- 12 -
telephone network to exhibit a number of deficiencies, which have led to poor
service.  Partly because of a lack of cable in major cities to provide
additional connections, the high number of telephones connected on each main
line (an average of about 2.5) has increased calling rates and has created
considerable local network congestion.  This necessitates repeated attempts
to complete calls during peak business hours, which in turn causes more
congestion.
43.       Expressed demand for main lines as of January 1982, totaled
about 144,300, including 80,200 main lines in service and 64,100 outstanding
applications for new lines. Based on past long-term growth trends of
expressed demand, data obtained through a block-by-block survey in some
existing exchanges, and selected consultation with town planning and other
development authorities about future development plans, KPTC has prepared a
demand forecast through 1986. KPTC forecasts that demand will total about
206,000 by end-1986--a 9 percent annual growth rate against an 11 percent
growth rate between 1977-81. These forecasts are considered conservative,
even in light of the overall slow growth of the economy.   By January 1982
the telex service had over 1,400 connections and 750 applicants on the
waiting list. The demand for telex in towns where service is not currently
available is not quantified. However, KPTC expects total demand in the
country in 1986 to reach about 3,000--a 13 percent annual growth rate over
the current measure of expressed demand.
Government Plan for the Sector
44.       During the next ten-year long-term planning period (1982-91), KPTC
plans to extend local services and high quality long distance services using
the latest available techniques, and to further concentrate on providing
basic telecommunications facilities to rural areas which are currently
inadequately served or without service. Accordingly, KPTC has set sector
goals to:
(a)  significantly improve the quality of local service and
expand the local Nairobi telephone network;
(b)  expand access to telephone service in rural areas by
increasing capacity of small rural exchanges, and opening
new public call offices in communities (rural, market and
local centers) currently without such facilities;
(c)  upgrade and expand the long distance network to handle
the additional forecast traffic;
(d)  expand telex services for business and government use;
and
(e)  improve KPTC's management procedures and financial
management capabilities.
45.       In working towards these goals, KPTC proposes to carry out a
FY82-86 development program amounting to about US$222 million, which is



- 13 -
substantially larger than that achieved under previous programs. Exchange
capacity will increase from 118,542 lines at end of 1981 to over 230,000 at
end of 1986, and the number of connections will increase from about 80,206 in
1980 to about 170,000 in 1986. This program is feasible and adequately
re.lects Government development priorities. Selected parameters reflecting
estimated changes in access to telephone service are indicated below:
End 1981 End 1986
Actual   Forecast
Connectiors
Kenya                                                   80,206    170,000
Nairobi                                                 41,709      87,200
Mombasa                                                 11,524      23,910
Rest of Kenya                                           26,973      58,830
Telephones per 100 population
Kenya                                                      1.2         1.9
Nairobi                                                   13.2        18.5
Mombasa                                                    7.3        11.0
Rest of Kenya                                              0.3         0.6
Percent of telephones outside of main centers                  15         15
Number of public call offices outside of main centers    610             900
Number of coin box telephones in major cities              1,104       1,500
Number of centers with nationwide trunk dialing                9          28
Bank Group Assistance
46.       The Bank has been associated since 1966 with the telecommunications
sector in the EAC, which prior to 1977, was managed by EAPTC. In February
1967, the Bank approved a US$13.0 million loan (Loan 483-EA) to EAPTC to help
finance a project designed to increase local and long distance facilities.
This project was satisfactorily completed in early 1974. A second loan
(Loan 675-EA) for US$10.4 million was approved in 1970 to finance a project
to further extend the telecommunications services. This project was
satisfactorily completed in June 1975. The third loan (Loan 914-EA) was
*          approved in May 1973 for US$32.5 million to further extend telecommunications
facilities. Due to the problems in the EAC leading to its breakup, the works
to be undertaken on this third project were delayed. The Kenya part of the
project was, however, completed in early 1981. The Operations Evaluation
Department's combined report on the first two projects (Report No. 893 of
October 21, 1975), while holding an overall positive view of the Bank's
achievements, pointed out the large delays in project implementation caused
by inadequate planning and project management, problems in procurement, and
the failure to meet demand for service. However, while the above three
projects were managed by EAPTC, KPTC, on its own, has since shown that it has
the ability to satisfactorily execute a project over a reasonable time frame.



- 14 -
47.       The first Bank-financed telecommunications project for Kenya (Loan
1680-KE), which became effective in August 1979, is fully committed and is
proceeding satisfactorily. Some initial procurement delays were experienced,
but KPTC is now conversant with Bank procurement procedures. Under the
proposed second telecommunications project, most remaining deficiencies in
planning and management are expected to be eliminated.
48.       Overall, the Bank's participation in the sector since 1966 has
enabled Kenya to: (a) begin to establish a modern long distance
telecommunications network with the associated long distance exchanges to
link the principal areas of the country and to initiate the provision of a
national subscriber dialing network covering a number of the larger exchanges
in the country; (b) expand the local telephone service in Nairobi and in some
of the larger towns in the provinces; and (c) create a financial base and
establish an institutional framework for development and future expansion.
While KPTC has made some progress in the technical and planning areas,
further strengthening of the planning department is necessary and the
financial area is still in need of attention. KPTC also needs to improve
in-house capabilities for the improvement of service quality, future
planning, demand forecasting and stores management.  Under the proposed
project the Bank will continue to assist KPTC's institution-building efforts
in these areas, and encourage KPTC in its major effort of providing long
distance facilities to an increasing number of rural communities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
49.       The proposed project was prepared by KPTC and approved by the
Government of Kenya. The Government presented the project to the Bank in
April 1981 with a request for financing. A Bank appraisal mission was
conducted in November 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from
April 19 to April 23, 1982. The Government's delegation was led by Mr. S.J.
Mbugua, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transport and Communications. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled: "Kenya: Second Telecommunications
Project," No. 3739-KE, dated April 26, 1982, has been distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. A loan and project summary appears at the
beginning of this report, and a supplementary data sheet is given in Annex
III.
Project Description
50.       The project proposed for Bank financing is a self-contained part of
KPTC's 1982-86 development program. The project includes the highest
priority and urgently needed items of the program and would finance about 55%
of it. As in the previous five-year program, the Government obtained
financing from other external sources to assist in its completion.
Specifically, the project comprises the installation of the following:



-15-
(a) a total of about 80,900 additional lines of local
automatic exchange equipment with associated cables and
subscribers' plant to connect about 75,000 additional
main lines;
(b) a total of about 7,100 terminations in long distance
exchanges;
(c) three microwave radio systems and about 1,270 additional
channels;
(d) rural carrier systems to provide about 200 additional
channels;
(e) two telex systems with a total of 3,000 additional lines
and connection of about 500 additional subscribers; and
(f) buildings to house project equipment.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about KSh 1,229.5
million (US$123.0 million), with a foreign expenditure of about
US$69.6 million equivalent or 57% of project cost. The project costs reflect
estimated December 1980 prices based on KPTC's experience with contracts
relating to ongoing works and those signed for goods under Loan 1680-KE, with
adjustments for inflation to bring them up to the projected early 1982
level. Price contingencies for project costs amount to 26 percent of total
base and physical contingency costs. They result from the year-to-year
estimates of local cost increases of 13 percent in 1982, 9 percent in 1983,
and 8 percent thereafter, and the year-by-year estimate of foreign costs
increases of 8.0 percent in 1982 and 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7.0 percent
in 1985, and 6.0 percent in 1986. The foreign cost increases are applied to
the contract date since all contracts are made on a fixed price basis and are
likely to be signed by mid-1983, and most of the equipment would be delivered
by mid-1984. The foreign cost increases are in line with the Bank's
expectations, and the local cost increases are based on KPTC's past
experience and expectations. Except for variations in quantities which could
occur in civil works and for which a physical contingency amounting to 5
percent of local costs has been provided, no other physical contingencies are
considered necessary. KPTC has provided for costs for training its staff by
consultants for procurement of digital exchanges.  KPTC will use about 53
manweeks of consultants' services (Crown Agents of the UK), provided on an
intermittent basis over the project period, at an average cost of about
US$3,600 per manweek, including corporate overhead costs. Whereas these
rates may seem high, in light of the nature of the work which requires highly
specialized expertise, extensive travel and considerable management input,
these estimates are considered reasonable. KPTC is exempt from payment of
customs duties on imported goods and pays no import taxes.
52.       To finance the project, KPTC would contribute from its own
generated resources US$53.4 million equivalent, or about 43.0% of net project
cost. The Bank would contribute US$44.7 million equivalent (including US$0.7
million capitalized front-end fee), or about 36% of net project cost. The



-16-
remaining US$25.6 million would be provided by Japan. As a condition of Loan
effectiveness, the Government will provide the Bank with a letter giving the
details of the cofinancing agreement between the Governments of Kenya and
Japan, including, inter alia, the credit amount, terms and conditions, and
expected effectiveness date (Section 6.01(b), draft Loan Agreement). In
addition, a condition of Loan effectiveness would be the conclusion of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government
and KPTC (Section 6.01(a), draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
53.       Equipment totaling US$38.1 million (including contingencies) would
be grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procured by international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent, or
the import duty, whichever is the lower. Under Loan 1680-KE, switching
equipment was procured through international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines. In order to maintain continuity and stan-
dardization, switching equipment under this proposed project for extension
lines in eight different local exchanges (about US$5.6 million) would be
obtained through negotiations with existing suppliers. This will provide for
standardization, full utilization of the space planned for such extension in
existing buildings, and economies resulting from the use of existing common
equipment. These goods would be financed with Bank loan funds only after the
Bank checks on the reasonability of the prices.
54.       KPTC invited bids in November 1981 for all project goods to be
financed by the Bank, except the exchanges and offers have been received.
Bids for the exchanges were invited in March 1982. All contracts are, there-
fore, likely to be signed by mid-1983. Accordingly, no initial procurement
delays experienced under the first project are expected. Loan disbursements
have been estimated roughly on the above schedule of procurement with adjust-
ments to more closely correspond to historic disbursements in Kenya. Dis-
bursements would be made for (a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and
80 percent of local expenditures for equipment; and (b) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for consultants and training. Where necessary, disbur-
sements would include the foreign cost of installation of goods and of main-
tenance after installation of digital exchanges by contractor staff assisting
KPTC staff. All disbursements would be fully documented. The closing date
of the loan would be September 30, 1987.
Project Implementation
55.       Organization and Management.  In past operations, KPTC has utilized
the services of Crown Agents of UK as consultants for the preparation of all
bid documents, evaluation of bids, contract preparation, and supplier payment
before obtaining Bank loan reimbursements. Based on its experience gained
under the first project, KPTC proposes in this project to carry out
procurement of all Bank-financed goods, except digital electronic exchanges,
using its own staff, and for the new electronic exchanges to retain the
services of Crown Agents. KPTC would lay and commission all distribution and
interexchange cables, and would supervise the construction of cable ducts by
local contractors. All installation works would be carried out by KPTC
staff, except in the case of the new and sophisticated type of electronic
switching equipment where KPTC's staff would assist the contractor's staff.



- 17 -
KPTC would carry out acceptance tests on all installed equipment. KPTC's
management has the experience required for the execution of the project.  The
project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1987.
56.       By January 1, 1984, KPTC shall employ economists, financial
analysts and engineers in adequate numbers for its Corporate Planning and
Management Services Department to address fundamental issues related to
intermediate and long term planning (Section 3.04 of the draft Project
Agreement). The department would examine such issues as
(a) means by which KPTC development can better complement and coordinate with
national, provincial, district, and local development programs in other
sectors; (b) monitoring of new expansion programs in both the public and
private sector with a view toward anticipating local telecommunications
demand and refining demand forecasts and subsequent exchange dimensioning;
(c) identifying high priority investment needs from a service and
productivity point of view with the goal of eliminating bottlenecks; (d)
monitoring usage patterns of current and future subscribers and users by
type; (e) examining the incremental costs of providing KPTC's various urban
and rural services; and (f) based on evolving technology and data gathered
under these studies, periodically making recommendations about KPTC's tariff
structure and metering practices.
57.       Staffing and Training.  KPTC has sufficient qualified staff to
carry out the project and its training program and facilities are adequate.
Training in digital exchange techniques and maintenance of such exchanges
will be provided by suppliers of the equipment financed under the project.
In addition, as a follow-up to the consolidation achieved between KPTC and
KENEXTEL in 1980, the Government would commission a study to examine
potential organization and cost economies which might be gained by a further
consolidation of the sector. The terms of reference from the study will be
approved by the Bank. Such a study should be completed by July 1, 1983.
Within three months of the study's completion, the Bank will receive a copy
of the study and the Government will exchange views with the Bank on its
findings and recommendations (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       Financial Arrangements.  The convenants to be carried out under the
proposed project are a continuation of those included in Telecommunications
I. To ensure KPTC's continued financial viability, telecommunications
tariffs would be maintained at levels sufficient to achieve a rate of return
of at least 10 percent on revalued average net fixed telecommunications
assets in operation (Section 4.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement).  For
purposes of rate of return calculations, as at December 31 of the year during
which all assets and liabilities incurred by EAPTC are finally allocated,
KPTC would revalue the book value of the fixed assets which it owns and any
fixed assets acquired by EAPTC, which it operates, on the basis of sound and
consistently maintained methods acceptable to the Bank; thereafter, KPTC
would revalue these assets whenever there is reasonably cause to believe
their value has appreciated by more than 10 percent since the previous
revaluation (Section 4.04(b) of the draft Project Agreement).  At the end of
1986, KPTC is projected to have a rate of return of about 17 percent on
revalued net fixed assets in operation. Telecommunications revenues would
not be used for purposes other than telecommunications development and
operations, unless such revenues are in excess of telecommunications



- 18 -
requirements (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).  An understanding
has been reached on how to apply the principles underlying financial
covenants on the provisional financial data, until such time as the mediation
effort has been concluded and final financial statements are available.
59.       Accounts and Audits.  To date, the Controller and Auditor General
has qualified the audit certificates due to possible revision that may arise
from a final settlement by the former EAC member countries on the division of
assets and liabilities of the defunct EAPTC.  The audit covenant  mnder the
first project, which requires financial statements within six rnonths of the
end of KPTC's fiscal year, until the division is settled, will be repeated
under the second project. KPTC would be required to submit to the Bank
corresponding audit reports within nine months of the end of its fiscal year,
or such later date as the Bank may agree (Section 4.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).
60.        Tariffs.  Average telephone revenue per line in 1981 was about
US$740 which is very high in comparison with most other countries. Two rates
are charged for long distance calls: a standard day rate and a lower rate
for nights and weekends. The night and weekend rate reflects the
lower marginal cost of carrying traffic outside of the busy periods since
system capacity is dimensioned for peak hour usage. The higher daytime
tariff ensures that those who have the greatest need at peak times will pay a
price which more closely reflects the costs which they impose on the system.
Local calls are untimed; long distance calls are timed. The introduction of
new electronic digital switching equipment under this project will provide
the means to reconcile the disparity in charges between long distance and
local calls and consideration will be given to timing and peak period pricing
of local calls. In order to discourage low volume users, as of April 1,
1982, rental charges in automatic exchange areas were increased by 63
percent, and connection fees and deposits were also increased. These revised
tariffs for rentals, connections, and deposits are satisfactory.
Benefits and Return on Investment
61.        Benefits.  Under the Government's Fourth Development Plan
(1979-83), growth in the economy has been greatly aided by a concurrent
growth in telecommunications infrastructure. A recent survey of nine Kenyan
firms located in Nairobi identified a wide range of ways in which business
performance would be enhanced as the Kenya telecommunications network is
further improved and extended. The study documented telecommunications
benefits specifically relating to business expansion, sales price effects,
purchase price effects, vehicle use, production stoppages, distribution
costs, labor time, and managerial time. When compared with a rough estimate
of the cost of expanded telephone service, the study concludes that telephone
calls made by employees of these nine Kenyan firms are almost never worth
less than ten times their cost to the subscribers, and on average are worth
over 100 times the cost; i.e., a large consumer surplus is associated with
expanded business telephone service in Nairobi.
62.        In Kenya, expanded telecommunications services also have the
potential for generating large domestic petroleum savings through transport
substitution and better transport coordination. In addition, rapid



- 19 -
communication can bring about foreign exchange savings in other ways,
including better access to international markets.  One such example relates
to the Kenya Cashew Nut Company. During the project period, when the company
gains access to its own telex connections, the average price at which the
company will be able to sell cashew nuts will increase by a minimum of
5 percent.  In current terms, such an increase would amount to an additional
annual foreign exchange inflow to the company and to Kenya of about
US$750,000.
63.        As of August 1980, a 15 percent telecommunications tax was added to
bills issued by KPTC.  During the FY82-86 project period, the
telecommunications tax is estimated to yield the equivalent of over US$95
million in revenues to Government. Funds generated by KPTC in excess of
immediate needs can be used by Government for development projects in other
sectors to the extent they are not needed for eventual compensation payments
once the division of EAPTC's assets and liabilities is finally settled.
During the project period, KPTC is expected to generate the equivalent of
over US$90 million in excess of immediate needs.  Furthermore,  in 1980 about
30 percent of KENEXTEL revenues for international services were made
available to Government as income taxes, customs duties, and sales tax.
During the project period, KPTC's payments to KENEXTEL are estimated to
exceed the equivalent of US$140 million, of which about 30 percent (over
US$40 million) in one form or another is expected to be made available to
Government.
64.       With regard to the equity aspects of the program, telephone service
is being significantly expanded into what government considers to be the high
priority rural and provincial areas. Public call offices will be introduced
into approximately 110 small communities (rural, market and local centers)
now without telephone access, and small exchanges will be introduced into or
expanded in approximately 70 other communities. The increased access in
rural areas and in smaller communities in the provinces, should ensure a more
equitable distribution of the benefits of the telephone service in Kenya.
65.        The configuration of KPTC's existing network and its proposed plans
for extending and improving service during the five-year (1982-86)
development period limit the number of viable alternative solutions that
could be considered to achieve the given targets. The timing and
dimensioning of the various work items proposed in the program, of which this
project is an integral part, are based on engineering studies designed to
introduce, where appropriate, electronic digital switching techniques, at the
least cost, and to select transmission techniques and equipment after study
of available alternatives. Given existing telecommunications technology, the
program as a whole represents a least cost solution to provide the quantities
and types of equipment which would meet the targets set out in KPTC's
five-year development plan.
66.       Return on Investment.  The internal financial rate of return,
defined as the discount rate which equalizes the present value of the cost
and revenue streams (at 1981 price levels) attributable to the program, is
25 percent. A sensitivity analysis on the financial rate or return indicates
that a combination of 10 percent higher capital and operating costs and 10
percent lower revenues than forecast, would result in an internal financial



- 20 -
rate of return of not less than 18 percent. With the 15 percent tax on KPTC
bills added to KPTC revenue, and payments to KENEXTEL reduced by 30 percent,
a minimum estimate of the economic rate of return is 35 percent. The above
rates of return significantly understate the real benefits to be derived from
KPTC's investment program, partly because the benefits stream used in the
calculation is based only on the current observed willingness of subscribers
to pay for telecommunications services. Hence, the consumer surplus which
subscribers and other callers receive is not included in the calculations.
Risk
67.       The project offers limited risk in attaining proposed institutional
changes or securing adequate financial performance. KPTC's management can
successfully execute the project. The principal risk is the possibility of
delayed physical implementation due to procedural delays and to unforeseen
circumstances. In telecommunications projects, comprising a relatively large
number of independent works and activities, as in this case, delay in the
completion of some items of work does not generally prevent the utilization
of other newly created assets. Furthermore, costs and benefits are often
delayed in roughly the same degree so that the impact on the rate of return
is not significant.
Environment and Health Aspects
68.       No significant adverse environmental or health effects are expected
as a result of construction of project items.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Kenya Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation and the Bank, and the Report of the Committees
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Conditions of effectiveness include:  (i) a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Kenya Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation has been executed (Section 6.01(a), draft Loan
Agreement); and (ii) the Government will provide the Bank with a letter
giving the details of the cofinancing agreement between the Governments of
Kenya and Japan, including, inter alia, the credit amount, terms and
conditions and expected effectiveness date (Section 6.01(b), draft Loan
Agreement).



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 6, 1982
t1



- 22 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGETED AVEES
LAND AREA (THOUSANO SA. Kl.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) E
TOTAL            5Y2.6                                 MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      60.4               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPIA (USO)                   100.0       170.0     380.0                 794.2                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(EILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     150.4        122.1     180.1                 707.5                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  8189.0      11253.0   15274.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4         10.2      13.8                  27.7                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       34.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        109.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.1         19.3      26.2                  55.0                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    145.2        191.4     244.4                 130.7                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         47.6         48.9      50.0                  46.0                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                         49.8         48.6      47.6                  51.2                    55.3
EU YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6          2.5       2.4                   2.8                     4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4          3.2       3.4                   2.8                      2.4
URBAN                              5.2          6.4       6.8                   5.1                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     52.0         52.7      51.3                  46.9                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     24.0         17.5      13.4                  15.8                     8.4
LKRSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.6         3.8       3.8                   3.2                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         30.9      61.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   .,           1.0
PUUD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0        100.0      86.0                  89.9                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY UF
CALORIES (PERCENT UF
REQUIREMENTS)                   99.0         99.0      88.0                  92.3                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          70.0         68.0      52.0                 52.8                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       29.0         28.0      20.0                  16.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     34.0         22.5      15.2                  20.2                     7.6
iIEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.3         49.1      54.7                  50.8                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          126.0/c      119.0      91.0                    ..                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
IOTAL                               ..         15.0      17.0                  27.4                    65.7
URBAN                               *         100.0     100.0                  74.3                    79.7
RURAL                               ..          2.0       4.0                  12.6                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATIUN)
TOTAL                               ..         50.0      55.0                    ..                    59.9
URBAN                               ..         85.0      98.0                    ..                    75.7
RURAL                               *-         45.0      48.0                    ..                    30.4
POPULAT1ON PER PHYSICIAN         10690.6       7830.9/d 11625.2/d             13844.1                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2230.0/c.d  1474.1jd  1085.7/d              2898.6                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            807.O0C      774.1     770.8                1028.4                   471.2
URBAN                               ..           ..     602.1                423.0                    558.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     802.8                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOULSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          4.7
URBAN                                ..         4.7
RURAL                               ..          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROUM
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                              2.5/c         ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCLSS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF UWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..



- 23 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.-)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            582.6
AGRICULTURAL      60.4                                MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAEARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 110.0       170.0    380.0                  260.0                   868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     143.0       135.0     139.0                 80.0                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      8.0        11.3      14. 7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4        10.2      13. 3                 17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      32.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       109.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2140
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0        19.0      25.0                 27.4                     61.7
PER SQ. EN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    142.0       191.0     243.0                 82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         47.5        45.8      49.5                 44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                         50.0        51.6      48.0                 52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.5         2.6       2.5                  2.8                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.2         3.4       3.3                  2.7                      2.7
URBAN                              5.8         6.6       6.9                  6.8                      4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.0        50.0      51.0                 47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATE RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.0        15.0      14.0                 19.6                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.4       3.8                  3. 2                     3. 2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        30.9      71.4
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         2. 2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0       102.0      87.0                 91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   99.0        99.0      88.0                 90.2                    92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          70.0        68.0      52.0                 53.0                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       29.0        28.0      20.0                 18.4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     25.0        18.0      14.0                 27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0        52.0      53.0                 45.3                     50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          126. 0/c    119.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        15.0      17.0                 23.2                     31.0
URBAN                               ..       100.0     100.0                 58.0                     66.8
RURAL                               ..         2.0       4.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        50.0      55.0                 28.9
URBAN                               ..        85.0      98.0                 67.0
RURAL                              ..         45.0      48.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10560.0      7839.0/d 11954.0/d            30910.4                 14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2230.0/c.d  1476.0/d  1116.0/d             5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            807.0/c     775.0     629.0               1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4. 7
URBAN                               ..         4.7
RURAL                               ..         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              2. S/c       ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



- 24 -                                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOC 1A1 ItOICATORS
Notes:  uAinu~gh the data are drown feou          -1 sorcs   enr llyjdged the mot authoritative and reliable. it should also be not   t tht~ey may Oatbeitr
-ainlf   op-rble because  athelakotenalsd definitions and tontept.  -sd bY dOffe .ren   nantrie " to                           1altereag the data.  The data oe   oe
thelss,uts dirosscibe  order  ormunna  1lohia tonneds, and ahara.treie  certain majorei atarantbtweeotlt
The  aeeet  gop re (1) the ta-   c-nry drooP of the sahbjee  a-otnrY aad 12) saooI-ty grtoP with s-hala   high. -rareafe nen   tca_                           e      gcountr   gop
at te stje  e  ounty  (acea ft "CuPital ScePlus Oil EPtorter" gtouP where "Fiddle lanse  otbAriand' frd'al  East" is chosen becaseofstager
ftaa-altutul  affinities) . I Ihaala aretenan  troo.p dote nir  __tuge  are papulanito   eghe   e mei  mans tttahidctran   hw    nywe
na)aety   f teaaon  ir  non  r-up has da-  tar that clcao.Since the   ....or age of . cutries                4 n t5rh  Indicators deprda on the awailabilisy of date
ooe et --ano    at    tine a_ou   thr  __any and araterTroan  ganupe.,  ...1irII.ia  t
Tona  -  otalnarareorsao -tO -aglar  area and    natnce.urban, and rural) diatded hy thite    epaloone    tborlbd
'lilt Ad by                       rert 11~ ~ ~         ~ ~ ~~~~~~~byatleattarlhyaci E.tanalishoent  proiding prinnipallyct-
alann d h97 tameaoawea  rehd   tWrld luok Atlas. (11-79 haste~); 1960,                                 an_aia  aaeaan  emnnl   snufed b  alyhric                            hoe by
_-p1i I Of IT                                    .1~~~dotasso , pr-oide e litl aage of redica1 fatiltetes.  Feesats
foifRGY CONSUMPT     ftION     u-  cul  arurlt  icomrta   neg    coltao   prorRuba    opiasAnPdeWOspicia!gsnl   npiae
an   laln   otatm,ntra   c   cdhda-   ulersd   etera   ir-sdrua   voptl0lcl  rarl  apnasmd                                                               eialsdosern
POFULTIdOND AND VIT1. STuTIS-l.Itt                                                                                            ii.   yth    -l  I   el
TanMFrlatt O ld-ea  )th--surd)   Al usf July  1; 196, 1901, end 1919                    Ff011N1
labsn  apulaeao (trceteof totl) -Ratic  of -bac to total ypa,lotion;                        A  osbl   osass      ru    f ftdioidsls ota shar  livcng qoaters
dLf.forlat,Refoirio-s of crleo  aa-  nap affec   _ocarah, iopo,              aasdtarmt   el.Ahmdr  Flds   a   0mynsb   niddi
.Poculaioc Frona tlt                                                                                  therha.e..mhr, ceroe t e   om   ntl   rbnP,arl   orserm
P.u,    tr  tpa  20            utao   oa oinrrjctaraebsd  n19                                        latpron    e   oa   nal  ra.ad  ua   ccpe    ooetoa
totl  oraatan  cyagaao  na  ad thair m-tln   adfrity cae..tlto                                              ..epecvl.  ~itgecoestfraeneraoe   n
taaltcclaonarasntatsfottottulcayratesaocprtsenithrre  levatroesum-~        ~     ~ nooauIftPM  para n.
laP   fraetcpsabrhiansvn th  cortf'  rat  aIaicobnaa  llrttoty  Ieren  at . doelige  -rtotal  orbae atrua-
cod  ertacay  rend   Oat190 enraorurtee.                                                   dlsne  frolsntoadn
man   asa..Tina   civdol   ftrfri  t   ursdniat                                                       emr  scholag   puienianJ; nrmally ti lde clairec  ged -ilg
a ~ltitepl -rnd leve  of uraot-t.          odct    oe  olr  ac    enraiobeas  u  odaad t.ar difern idlnnnsofp...eus 1t   a
Srt   loon                      .dhaatoareqaresa                                                                                _leas  for   yearso  apperre   priat  Enstenf aec
hent   a  icpl e-  louled.                                                                           usull  of12to           yar  t   ge rarsanesnecuresar edra
faruleEtot ilfsulcf                                                                             enaluded.
'ePo.h.     i-per fo       _tolyapa T;o-ce-icoar   11  otrs t                                 fecsina  enrllen  (perceonff.r   as-9adarf pr- Pctna  islui
Pt  t.ha   aroliturll lead I-jl-rue    saoefratalua ed                                        sttyo          epemet  nd-ecwds  lussi.ltutiysf.
utip   190.  910  td  019data                                                     Pail-aanerrato     Orsser  ao  teondsy-tts                   --stdents enraled,i
Popoitlon  ne Siuaon  Itnner.t) - llcllv-  lIt    nnm     ohigaris                              emc  andPito!.dry blov-  dIvied b  nhunhera, oftahesl Eng th
lotin; 160,  911  sod1910dana                                                         Adlt lteray tes larat.t1     litrat   edaes fble--prnd-sdfinite
Poulcctlnnl at  aacot  rna   -duul  rvaase-a   otl  i-                                             t   par rne5  otataI.. adul  poplanre  ge  15,. yearnyn  over.d i
year Ea.ltcaOa10-0.96-0  ahd 1010-19.                           l-ypI,aj                              P-d--tirl   tr.t.   rlaa   .tr                                        .f
Parulacla  Mrnid toe (prce    -nrbao-Aa kul--aalcot  of uh-trhco care                           -C0500E710.5all
latoa   Ot  91-6,  06-1,  ad190-9.Pasngr  Cai-1lrs (par                                                          t (ha -se  poalii-f-  rs.ne  cr-amniema
p1a9clt; 0I  , 1970 a-d t19ic  dat.siaytbilr
tlrade , Dstt  tear lost a tinod) - lovual. da-h IberahfrAut         -anoof'dloeaOaloarirr-1 sA (roe tbausard nru                              tho)     lltye  at rreiosirh  p   mr, radio.d
tllltp   ates; uually  tan-eo  aerf   etdiau  in r- 96,1-0 ki, sd199                         uastdcouandtyasoTnt.slaa  tlt-rlslag
ally recri rd oaseato tutI'algrup.                                                                    ulanan o  ''daly 1 d genera  interes   besyn_er", dIfised   srayeriodthl
(P                                                                dp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yhlc:a  devtdpiatytieoda   gnrlnw.I   saaiae
ar   oldn).Atrgcpadcina  au-h  rcnare in bare  at                                  -            lali Plr
osioolsara r pOdano  prIo Addo1t7; 19616,11,ad11.aa                                         oa  ao    ac   rasts      csmclyatr   pados  ina ing
Pe aria  no                 7 f  aote      li-nn  ofrbirthvarre  -hlooua,d   fran-                 ameR  rane.     tduenlye    u  etcldie  hoseivs  stuent, ao
nanPay-.;160   9D ko rlhl  t   1919ie    aapirRmattpooto,  noa   eseo    oprbe  190                                            911 stdb 1919 data.
C quantities  usdl  te    raaa1ia-yoss  adnrtaln   cqi                                                          -hilaaloret  1-hhrfomI-amng   aety    ho.lr  and
estrarna uar         ad bye  -    th usal   hAuadl0  Flo lola5aa h-da fr  oralac                    fiflogadecetrgeoftotllbrtre    90   90ad11    s
_aseol  lerol  191-6,111,        and 1119  dats.                                               1910 atd  1919rdata.
ce   o tl,t_odpe   ry        e  spl a_oo     db ..a boe    e-arotyrae    red,atdasnni,ml,tt  fml  lbrtatr
ouirmanfr   al  nA`voter   1--I rahsad-byUSA  rtdr.                a   iiu                           etntgea   aa,ml  end teale pomletioIofIal  a get 11                  eseirdly;
urac nn lorraicuahooca t      hIan no  totla,le ylat er0   co  o                            animaesiftmntoalaua
Icald mod  Suroop; 1961-Oh,  1911 nod 1911 data.-iiI f-                            atoteta.clffr debar Torte.eal_,h                            gi :i    f  .i
elve  fan  ovlaleand  ular  Ia  nuv  netir day  1061-65l, 101'ad 1:7911dt.           I'.llttnTt
tales  ata dotoed tos li   f tables  100d 91 n  1919 data,.o ica'PhIlida.                                      r1-ar                            d         rbr.        ,t
IhAil      hldOarig                                                                             riy44yxiosh bd     ThRt  blI   _I                       11         - edT    -,
ofag  pta   l tha .r lire icath.Anourpoet  Incor  lae   statinn   eolhlsoi                                                                                                 f     i
.dacauf toSfo  an   onet Olcltu)-  oa,udt adarl-s rrcdPuaitialpaeoc   ie rlu . naca  to-od  reqotrswt  Isne
sorruollcolda:eansuiucotntt   orecrbtuaotniatdnuinndaelyoifo i parertylocarmlr rsf S  ge... Ite) -ala    -andanal-
oa-d-i-nhaeahacfaN   poetahreoe,ttog,adeaa apollr,locu lvitv yaet mna level isc -ihraf v-k g    ttapt
peaeoi0esof  heit  eupatlr ppuatlor. Onaaraaaea    yollnpesosl ioom   a  clnrt"ill Ith atlevelb isd drIo  thom  to.                                Nurs
i.ane.eedIan _CtaIncici              dinnula  acs -oO thatr house.  Inroru   ara                    siaedyrlto  tloaslt                             adAt-Otmelvl(ecee       r
roar rrh  eucces   aoI areo  thtthible,a  nrcla a-              th  houehol                  atd toa       tao   f  eu tn(ra  and                     . a ral  sheiare "asout
foll'scratl preeds.cI _                       l ~ a  y         b 
PccertlnraDsoa   prraa                          19r61c 65n -1970,ura, a.d1  n9d.d                   T-tl 
p-ereyt-fe -of th  ir -eyclocdpopuoti..s..acaso  Rsrtol mayr....d
lar  imalat.plyn   f . ,.                                                                                                                                 fipu1 1901E..
oio   qaafo    froe afaeiodacyalda uoiodioyglvh.
Ptn-.atac                                               P"' _osionOroont-rPoi-an....dolded  y numb o alpIftitif
m lsadealagradInotL"se,  atacunal aunra...asuis-i-onare



- 25 -                                                   Annex I
Population:  15.865 million (1980)                                                                                        Page 4 of 6
CNP Per Capita:  1E$420 (1980)
ICENYA - ECtfIC INDICATM
1980
Indicator                                Amount                             Anual Growth Rate (2)
(million IES$ at        Actual/a                             Projected/a
current prices)  1976   1977   1978   1979   1980        1981   1982   1986   1991   1995
National Accounts
Gross domestic product at m.p.          5986.0          2.1    9.5    7.4    4.2    2.4         3.1    3.3    4.5    5.5    5.5
Agriculture                           1463.8          1.9   10.0    4.2   -1.0   -1.2         2.0    3.2    3.7    4.0    4.0
Industry                              865.3          -0.4   13.1   10.9    6.8    3.8         4.0    4.0    5.0    7.0    7.0
Services                              1934.9          4.1    5.8    7.0    7.5    4.7         4.0    4.1    4.9    5.6    5.6
Consumption                              5962.4         -3.5    7.9   15.3    6.6    2.3          7.1   -0.5    3.6    4.3    4.3
Gross Investment                         1882.0          12.0   35.9   23.9  -24.8   17.3    -14.8    2.0    4.6    5.5    5.5
Exports of GNFS                          1980.5           6.3    5.6   -4.3   -8.3    5.2    -13.7    4.6    4.8    6.5    6.5
Imports of GNES                          2832.8         -2.7   18.3   26.6  -19.8    8.9    -12.8   -6.4    2.3    3.1    3.1
Gross National Savings                    870.4          17.0   64.6  -27.4  -27.1   64.4    -13.6   29.6    8.0    9.4    9.7
Prices
GDP deflator/b                          100.0          71.2   83.6   85.7   91.9  100.0    108.0  115.6  145.9  195.2  246.5
Exchange rate (KSh./US$)                7.4202       8.3671  8.2766  7.7294 7.4753 7.4202    9.091  9.091   9.091   9.091   9.091
Share of GDP at isrket prices (%)           Average Annual Growth Rate (%)/a
(at current prices)/c
Actual                  Projected
1974   1979   1980   1986   1991   1995         1974-79  1981-86  1986-91  1990-95
Gross domaestic produlct at m.p.      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0            4.7      4.2       5.2      5.5
Agrictultare/d                       35.4   34.3   32.5   31.0   29.2   27.6            4.4       3.5      3.9      4.0
Industry/d                          20.7   26.1   21.8   22.4   23.7   25.1             6.1      4.6       6.5      7.0
Services/d                           43.9   39.6   45.7   46.7   47.1   47.3            4.9      4.6       5.3      5.6
Consumption                            81.5   84.2   85.3   81.9   77.6   74.3            5.6      2.7       4.0      4.3
Gross Investnent                       25.8   22.7   26.9   22.9   23.0   23.0           -1.5      5.0       5.3      5.5
Exports SNFS                           33.7   25.5   28.3   24.5   25.7   26.7           -1.2      4.7       6.2      6.5
Imports C.NFS                         40.9   32.4   40.5   29.3   26.4   24.0           -2.0       1.3       3.0      3.1
Gross national savings                 14.5   13.0   12.1   15.7   19.0   22.4            0.6     12.2       9.2      9.7
As % of GDP
PUBLIC F11CZE                             1974  1979  1980
Current revenues                         16.0  24.7  24.8
Current ecpenditures                    14.3  22.5  23.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)               1.8   2.2   1.8
Capital expenditure                      6.1   9.7  10.1
Foreign f inancing                       2.0   4.2   5.4
OTdE  INDICA1P5                         1974-79  1981-86  1986-91  1990-95
GNW growth rate (%)                     4.9       4.1      5.1       5.6
GNP per capita growth rate (%)          1.0       0.2      1.3       1.9
Energy oonsumption growth rate (2)      4.9       2.5       3.1      3.3
ICOR                                    7.8       5.4      4.5       4.2
Marginal savings rate                   .268    .333      .322      .375
Import elasticity                      -0.4       0.3      0.6       0.6
/a Growth rates for historical years are based in constant 1976 prices; projected years in constant 1980 prices.
/b  l(h. deflator based in 1976 prices.
,c Projected years in constant 1980 prices.
/d Share of GDP at factor cost.
April 7, 1982
EAlDA



Population:  15.865 million (1980)                                 - 26 -                                                    Amex I
GNP Per Capita: tS$420 (1980)                                                                                               Page 5 of 6
KENY  - ECED4NL TAE
AmoLnt                                        Areual Grwth Rate (%)/a
Indicator                         (milllion LS$ at                       Actual                                   Projected
current prices)
1980                1976    1977    1978   1979    1980       1981    1982    1983    1984   1985    1986    1991
EXTERNA TRAlE
merchandise exports                   1247.2                 6.4     4.0   -7.7   -2.1       3.2   -13.2      4.6    4.6      4.8     4.8     4.8    6.4
Primary/b                            963.4                 12.4    9.0   -3.7      4.8   -7.3   -18.3       4.8    4.8    4.8    4.9    4.9    6.2
manufactures/c                        283.8                 0.4   -5.4  -18.6   -3.1    29.6         3.9    4.0    4.0    4.7    4.7        4.7    6.8
Mercharndise inports                  2612.2                -3.8    22.0   16.4  -18.3   14.7   -11.4   -6.4          3.1    2.5      2.3     2.3     3.0
Food/d                                111.2                 5.3    3.0   70.0  -19.2    57.6   -23.0   -9.1         1.2    1.2    1.2       1.2    0.0
PetroTeum/e                          778.6                -8.3     4.0     2.9    0.9   16.7    -9.1   -5.2         2.7    2.7      2.7     2.7     3.0
Machinery snd equipment/f             706.4              -16.7    36.0   29.4  -28.4    19.0    -9.5   -2.9         5.5    3.4    3.4       3.4    4.0
others                               1016.0                 ..      ..      ..      ..      ..   -13.1   -9.6       1.8    1.8    1.2       1.0    2.5
P_RIM/g
Export price index                                        73.2  102.8   81.2   83.7  100.0    93.2   98.5  106.4  114.8  124.0  132.7  186.1
Import price index                                        65.2   69.6   68.7   76.8  100.0    99.1  104.3  115.1  127.0  140.0  150.5  216.7
Ter-s oE trade index                                     112.3  147.8  118.2  108.9  100.0    94.1   94.5   92.4   90.4   88.6   88.2   85.9
Canposition of Merchandise Trade (%)           Average Annual Increase (%)/a
(at constant 1980 prices)
1974   1979   1981   1986   1991   1995      1974-79   1981-86   1986-91   1990-95
Exports
Primary                                   71.0  83.0  72.9  73.1  73.1  72.6               2.1       4.8       6.2      6.3
Manufactures/h                            29.0  17.0  27.1  26.9  26.9  27.4             -11.3       4.4       6.3      7.0
Imports
Food                                       6.6   5.3   3.7    3.4   2.9   2.1            -10.4       -0.3        -       -
Petr)lelrn                                21.2  23.7  30.6  31.1  31.2  38.9              -2.8        1.5       3.0    3.0
Machinery and equipment                   22.8  35.5  27.6  30.2  31.5  25.6               1.7        2.9       3.9    3.9
Others                                    49.4  35.5  38.1  35.3  34.3  33.4               ..        -0.1       2.4    2.6
/a Hiistorical growth rates are based in 1976 prices; projectrd growth rates in 1980 prices
/b  Based on weighted quantun indices (base year = 1976) of food, live animals, and crude materials
/c  Excludes petrolemin prodicts. Value of manufactured exports are deflated by international inflation index to arrive at constant price
series.
/d  Based on quantun index (base year = 1976) for SITC 0.
ie  Based on qLu-ntun index (base year = 1976) for Sr1  3.
i/f  Based on quantum index (base year = 1976) for SITC 7.
/g  Indices for ldstorical years (1976-80) are based in 1976; those for projection years are based in 1980.
/h Excludes petroleun products.
April 7, 1982
EA1DA



2 27 -Armex I
Population:  15.865 million (1980)                                                                                             Page 6 of 6
(CNP per capita:  TS$420 (1980)
, KENYA - B1ANlE OF PAYMEN, XERNAL CAPITAL AND DEET
(million LE$ at current prices)
Actual                                       Pro jected
1976     1977     1978     1979     1980       1981     1982     1986     1991     1995
BLAIA OF PAYMEN1S
Exports of goods and services             1184.6  1614.9  1581.')  1629.o  2032.P    1651.7  L82i.5  2933.0  5447.C  9033.5
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.             743.9  1130.9   955.8  1017.5  1242.5    1008.3  1114.7  1809.3  3423.4  5758.4
Imports of goods and services             1300.3  1653.9  2332.6  2206.8  3069.4    2639.9  2650.1  4221.9  7091.7  10547.5
of which: Merchaaiise c.i.f.             975.0  1279.0  1875.7  1779.2  2632.9    2294.4  2260.8  3610.0  6008.9  9086.3
Net transfers                               32.3    66.5    91.1    100.1   139.6         153.6   168.9   247.3   398.3   583.1
Current Account Balance                    -83.4     27.5  -660.6  -477.0  -897.0    -834.6  -659.7  -1041.6  -1246.5  -930.8
Private direct investment                   37.7    54.5    32.1       66.4    61.2        66.4    73.1   107.0   172.3   252.3
M&LT loans (net)                           111.9   145.6   410.1    412.5   515.3         460.2    552.6   866.3  1066.9   654.1
Official                                    ..       ..       ..       ..       ..    (304.4)  (546.4)  (401.3)  (568.1)  (829.4)
Private                                    ..        ..       ..       ..       ..    (155.7)    (6.2)  (464.9)  (498.9) (-175.3)
Other Capital                               19.1    44.7    17.6   187.0   125.9          108.0    99.0   118.1    93.8   147.3
Change in reserves                         -85.3  -272.3   200.8  -188.9   194.6          200.0   -65.0   -49.7   -86.6  -122.9
International Reserves                    425.9   698.2   497.4   686.3   491.7           291.7   356.7   546.4   905.2  1337.1
Reserves as months imports                   4.3      5.2      3.8      5.1      2.9        1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5
EXIERXAL CAPITAL AND DEBI
Gross Disbursements                        180.9   231.6   285.!    u!6.8   420.8         566.0   689.5  1151.6  1738.4  1637.3
Official grants/a                           ..       ..       ..       .        ..         ..       ..
Concessional loans                        63.3    64.7    Lo4.5   149.9   179.6         215.8   313.5   329.3   509.6   675.9
DA5                                     46.1    33.7    54.0    94.0    81.2          133.0   127.0   158.6   223.2   292.5
FPM                                      -        -        -        -        -         19.5     50.3    37.6    52.7    69.1
IDA                                    13.6    17.7    16.3    21.5    71.6            30.5    90.8    75.7   140.9   192.6
Other                                    3.6     13.3    34.2    34.4    26.8          32.8    45.4    57.5    92.8   121.6
Non-concessional loans                   117.6   166.8   180.6   226.8   241.2          350.2   376.0   822.3  1228.8   961.4
Offical export credits                  18.8    11.0    17.6        8.5    10.1        26.5    55.5    75.2   105.4   138.2
IBRD                                   66.7    34.7    42.3    36.7    40.0           77.2   197.2   112.3   214.4   294.8
Other official                           2.1     11.5      7.6      4.8    21.0        11.1    10.1       1.9      -        -
Private                                 30.0   109.6   113.1   176.8   170.0          235.4   113.2   633.0   909.0   528.5
External Debt
Debt ouitstanding and disbursed         700.8   917.2   1083.7  1433.2  1743.8    2336.3/b 2888.9/b 5817.3/blD873.3/bl4359.5/b
Official                               605.2   709.6   792.8   977.6  1179.6    1593.3  2139.7  4117.2  6651.1  9506.3
Private                                 95.6   207.6   290.9   455.6   564.2          743.0   749.2  1700.1  4222.1  4853.2
Urndisbursed debt                        629.1   780.7  1056.6  1252.8  1304.5    1383.7  1323.0  1584.2  2518.1  3319.7
Debt Service/a
Total service payments                    65.3    74.6    121.6   120.2   183.0         201.8   271.2   531.3  1193.7  1652.1
Interest                               31.8    39.6    52.4    70.6   104.5            96.0   134.3   245.9   522.3   668.9
Payments as x of exports                   5.7      4.8      7.9      7.6      9.2       12.2    14.9    18.1    21.9    18.3
Averge interest rate on new loans (%)
Official                                   4.5      4.0      4.0      3.8      3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Private                                    7.7      7.7      7.7     12.0      8.0        9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0
*               Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                                  26.0    30.0    28.0    32.0    32.0           28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0
Private                                    9.5    11.9    13.0    11.9         5.9       10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of 1980
Maturity structure of debt oAtstanding
Maturities due within 5 years
Maturities due within 10 years                                      8.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                    106.0
/a Official grants are included in transfers Ln the balance of payments current account. Transfers are projected to grow at an
annual rate of 10%.
/b Includes Kenya's notional share of 45% of EAC debt.
April 7, 1982
KAIDA



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1982
US$ Million
Loan or                                                              Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit #    Year   Borrower    Purpose                              Bankl   TW   IDAl  Undisbursed
Seventeen (17) T.oans and Twenty (20) Credits and one (1)
Third Window Loan Fully Disbursed                                  301.68  5.00 209.72
477        1974    Kenya        Livestock                                         17.50      6.98
537        1975    Kenya        Group Farm Rehabilitation                          7.50      3.67
1105        1975    Kenya        Sites and Services                  8.00                     2.28
1184        1976    Kenya        Third Education                    10.00                     8.16
650       (1977   (Kenya       (Integrated Agric. Development                     10.00   ( 3.70
(1303-T    (1977   (Kenya        (Integrated Agric. Development             10.00            (10.00
1304-T      1977    Kenya        Wildlife andl Tourism                     17.00              8.32
1305        1977    Kenya        Rural Access Roads                  4.00                     4.00
1389        1977    Kenya        South Nyanza Sugar                 25.00                     5.49
1438        1977   IB           Third Industrial Dev. Bank         20.00                     6.46
1449        1977    Kenya        Bura Irrigation Settlenent         34.00                    31.89
750        1978    Kenya        Small Scale Industry                              10.00      8.22
1520        1978    NCC         Second Jrban Water Supply           30.00                    19.42
791       (1978   (Kenya       (Second Urban                                      25.00   (21.51
(1550       (1978   (Kenya       (Second Urban                       25.00                   (25.00
797        1978    Kenya        Fourth Education                                  23.00    18.17
1636        1979    Kenya        Sugar Rehabilitation               72.00                    67.27
1637        1979    Kenya        Rural Water Supply                 20.00                    19.89
858        1979    Kenya        Narok Agricultural Developnent                    13.00    12.38
1680        1979    Kenya        Telecommunications                 20.00                    10.51
1684        1979    Kenya        Highway Sector                     90.00                    84.89
914        1979    Kenya        Smallholder Coffee Imorovenent                    27.00    26.18
959        1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                      46.00    44.67
962        1980    Kenya        Baringo Pilot                                      6.50      5.88
1799        1980    Kenya        Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.002                      15.93
i817        1980    IDB          Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank        30.00                   27.53
1045        1980    Kenya        Export Pronotion Technical Asst.                   4.50      4.49
1051        1980    Kenya        Fisheries                                         10.00    10.00
1107        1981    Kenya        Fifth Education                                   35.90    35.90
1976        1981    Kenya        Railway                            58.00                    58.00
(1143       (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth Agriculture3                                9.40      9.40
(1995       (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth Agriculture 3 4             25.00                    25.00
2065        1982    Kenya        Petroleum Exploration               4.00                     4.00
(2098       (1982   (Kenya       (Forestry III                       21.50                    21.50
(1213       (1982   (Kenya       (Forestry III3 4                                    16.00   16.00
1982    Kenya       Cotton Proc. & Marketing 3          22.00                   22.00
Total                             860.18 32.00  471.02  702.95
of which has been repaid          44.80   -        2.57
Total now outstanding             815.38 32.00  468.45
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                815.38 32.00 468.45
TOTAIL undisbursed                            228.50 18.32 456.13   702.95
1/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
?/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ IDA-6 Credit amnounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of March 31, 1982
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                   Bankl    Undisbursed
    US$ million-----
Six loans fully disbursed                             135.80
638-EA    1969    EAHC        Second Harbours         35.00         0.52
865-EA    1972    EAHC        Third Harbours          26.50         0.35
914-EA    1972    EAPTC       Third Telecom.          32.50         0.28
1204-EA    1976    EADB        Second Dev. Finance   15.00           3.11
Total                                              244.80         4.26
of which has been repaid                           68.89
Total now outstanding                              175.91
Amount sold                             24.36
of which has been repaid               24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bankl                            175.91
Total undisbursed                                    4.26         4.26
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. Status of Projects in Execution1
(As of March 31, 1982)
There are currently 31 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 477-KE - Second Livestock Project: US$17.52 million Credit
of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The implementation of this project has been hampered by a number of
policy and institutional issues. Consequently, disbursements have been
exceedingly slow and the outstanding balance as of December 31, 1980, the
closing date, was US$14.3 million. Agreement was reached with the Government
that the credit would be extended for a period of two years to December 31,
1982, if a number of conditions necessary to resolve the above issues were
implemented by November 1980. These conditions implied a more realistic and
modified project with decreased project costs. A joint Bank/GOK evaluation
exercise commenced in early April 1982 to evaluate in particular the water
development activities and to set up the framework for the PCR. Agreement
was also reached between the Government and the Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFC) and the Association that since the total amount of the
credit could not be utilized even with the proposed new closing date, US$4.0
million would be cancelled.
Credit No. 537-KE3 - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project: US$7.5 million
Credit of March 26, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The progress of rehabilitation of existing project farms has
encountered a variety of legal, social, political and financial problems.
Despite project efforts to recruit qualified farm managers, most of the farms
continue to suffer from inadequate financial and operational management.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
2/ Net of cancellations, an amount of US$4.0 million was cancelled on
December 30, 1980, since the total amount of the credit could not be
utilized.
3/  Loan No. 1093-KE, US$7.5 million, was cancelled on May 11, 1981,
retroactive to November 30, 1980, at Government request.



- 31 -                           ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
Rehabilitation of a few farms, particularly coffee estates, seems to be
proceeding satisfactorily as the majority of project farm group owners would
like to subdivide. To date they have been constrained by large debts for
common assets and by the absence of a clear Government policy and guideiLnes
on legal subdivision of group farms.   The Government needs to review the
implications of sub-division for the regions concerned, and prepare a project
to rationalize existing subdivisions and provide agricultural services. In
the interim, recruitment of additional farns has stopped, and the total loan
amnount (US$7.5 million) has been cancelled at the Government's request.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million Loan
of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The sugar factory is in operation, agricultural development has
advanced well and nucleus estate development is comnplete including drainage.
1981 production of cane, particularly fromn outgrowers, was well below
management estimates, due to lower cane yields, a smaller area available for
harvest and low sugar recovery. A research program is being drawn up to
identify reasons for low yields. All civil works are virtually completed,
work on minor roads is improving and major road works are proceeding
satisfactorily. Certain weaknesses in project management, particularly cane
handling and transport, have become apparent, and consultants are being
employed to rectify this problem.  Although statutory sugar prices were
changed for the second time in a year in December 1981, SONY (the Project
entity) is experiencing serious financial difficulties. These are
attributable to unrealistic pricing policies, lower throughput, and SONY's
high fixed costs and debt service obligations. SONY has requested an
immediate cash injection from Government, who is presently considering a
special financial rescue program.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1978;
Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. The civil works are nearly completed and the first settlers
have arrived. Recent revised project cost estimates show a reduction in
estimated project costs, which previously showed serious cost overruns.
Although reduced, a financing gap continues and Government is studying
options for modifying project design and reducing costs. Project management
has experienced problems, but will be improved through recruitment oF
agricultural management consultants.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: U$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Implementation of this Project is facing a serious problem. The
Government has indicated reluctance to sign the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements for two of the three factories to be rehabilitated under the
Project, and has now confirmed its intention formally to the Bank.



- 32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
Developments in these project areas are in suspense since the companies have
not given evidence that they have a viable financing plan and since the
Government has not provided detailed plans for the complementary field and
infrastructural development. Rehabilitation of the third factory has been
held up by delays in the recruitment of consultants; serious cost over-runs
are expected. Low prices have led to a drop in cane supply. In spite of the
economic difficulties facing the sugar production sector, investments in new
factories are being projected.  A study to review sugar marketing prospects
is now underway, and will form the basis for Government policy in the sugar
sector. Once this is complete, appropriate changes in project scope and
design will be discussed with the Bank.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
In late 1980 it became obvious that the original project concept of
extending credit to resident Masai to finance purchases of farm machinery for
wheat production, could not be substantially met in the remaining years of
the project. The Masai continue to prefer to hire tractor and combine
services, or to contract all production activities. Government and the Bank
discussed means of achieving the production objectives of the project without
detriment to the social objectives of developing Masai lands, and concluded
that expansion of the feeder road component of the project would satisfy
these objectives. Project funds have been reallocated from the credit
component to the feeder road component. The project has experienced delays
in recruiting consultants to carry out studies monitoring project
performance, and has also suffered from poor budgetary management.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project:  US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Principal project activities have been affected by lower than
estimated Government budgetary allocations to finance SCIP lending operations
for coffee factory rehabilitation/construction and farm improvements.
Training has made good progress, but training programs need to be expanded
and accelerated.  Coffee factory rehabilitation has also been delayed due to
problems in project coordination and management, deficient loan applications
from cooperatives and insufficient technical staff. A short-term program has
been agreed to minimize effects for the upcoming season, but project
management and budgeting need improvement and more technical assistance is
necessary. Financial difficulties are expected to continue to prevail in the
near future, and whether Project infrastructure, equipment and personnel will
be utilized in an optimal fashion will depend on future Government funding of
the Project.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980; Closing
Date: October 31, 1984
Project implementation started out favorably.  The project team of
expatriate and local technicians launched a number of experiments in dry-land



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
and irrgated farming, soil conservation and water harvesting, and range
management. Project demonstrations attracted local interest, and
participation of area residents in project activities has increased. In the
last year, however, there has been a deterioration in the project's
performance resulting fromn financing constraints which have in turn adversely
affected staff performance and morale. Government allocations to the project
are less than 50% of appraisal estimates, and project management has had
difficulties in getting even those funds released. The shortfall has had a
particular inpact on construction of project housing, which is sorely
inadequate, and on project field services. Little progress has been made on
the range management and livestock component, due to lack of technical
personnel. The Bank has recommended that special financing arrangements,
based on a revolving fund, be investigated to overcome financing problems.
Credit 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986
The impact of the project on production and farmer incomes has fallen
short of expectations: the number of participants is less than expected and
drop-out rates are high. This generally poor performance has resulted
primarily from the failure of the crop production component of the project
supported by credit. Farmer training and livestock components have
progressed adequately, as have some infrastructural components, although all
have been affected by severe budget cuts. Project problems include large
delivery of credit, inadequate management of cooperatives, the inefficiencies
of the farm input delivery system and inadequate crop marketing
arrangements. There is a critical need to improve the coordination of the
many participating Ministries, upgrade the research and extension services,
and make the Ministry of Cooperative Development a more effective
institution.  1ADP is the Government's major vehicle to assist Kenya's
smallholder farmers. Though progress has been disappointing, Bank
participation has made Government aware of problems in implementation. As a
first step in redesigning the IADP program, the Government is developing a
pilot training and visit extension effort in IADP areas, and seeking
improvements in the managemaent of cooperatives, and distribution of credit.
Credit No. 1051-KE - Fisheries Development Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date:  October 9, 1980; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987
*                 Project implementation has been slow in starting up, partly due to
several unanticipated problems related to donor coordination, acquisition of
land rights and delays in the conclusion of the subsidiary financing
agreement governing provisions for credit to fishing cooperatives.  These
issues have been resolved. The Project Unit is now focussing on
strengthening of cooperatives, planning of improved fish marketing services,
and reviewing designs for the fish farning development center to be
constructed. The tendering of major contracts for equipment, construction
and technical assistance is expected to be completed by September 1982.



34                            ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Loan No. l995-KE/Credit No. 1143-KE: Fourth Agricultural Credit
Project of May 19, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Loan/Credit not yet effective.
Loan No. 2098-KE/Credit No. 1213-KE: Third Forestry Project:
US$21.5 million Loan and US$16.0 million Credit of March 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Loan/Credit not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loarn No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is about 3-1/2 years behind
schedule. Latest cost estimates indicated an increase of about 19% in total
project cost. Minimal progress in preparation of a new and appropriate
curriculum has been made by the Kenya Institute of Education, who has a
leading role in improvement of primary education. Provision under the Fifth
Education Project for strengthening the Project Unit was expected to
improve management of implementation activities. However, it appears that
Government is not timely in implementing agreement in this respect. The
Government has requested an extension of the Closing Date for this project,
and this proposal, inter alia, is to be reviewed by a mission planned for May
1982.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: U$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Physical implementaton of the project is about 22 months behind
schedule (about 17% of completion). Revised total project cost increased to
about KShs 329 million representing approximatley 28% cost overrun in civil
works in terms of local currency. The Technical Assistance program as well
as the pursuance of educational objectives under the Credit are proceeding
satisfactorily. Problems persist in management of the implementation of the
project. The Government has requested, inter alia, an extension of the
Closing Date for this project, and this proposal is to be reviewed by a
mission planned for May 1982.
Credit No. 1107-KE - Fifth Education Project: US$40.04 million Credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Start-up activities which began with funding under a Project
Preparation Facility are progressing with designs completed for all civil
4/ IDA Credit US$40 Million equivalent SDR 31.4 million at time of



-35 -                           ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
works components. Procurement of equipment and furniture has not commenced
and no technical assistance has been utilized yet. The fellowship program,
started with funding under the PPF, is underway with six staff members of the
Kenya Education Staff Institute having completed short courses in the United
Kingdom. One other long-term fellowship has been awarded and selection
procedures are well underway for others. A Steering Committee has been
appointed and has commenced planning the work and budget for the
pre-investment study on business education. In order to facilitate
coordination of the project, representatives of the ministries participating
in the project have been nominated although they have not yet met. The
provisions for the strengthening of the PIU have not been achieved and poses
a serious threat to efficient implementation. This will be assessed during
the May 1982 supervision mission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0
million Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 21 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply
contracts financed by other donors and the construction contracts being
financed by the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on
detailed design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to
date have been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated
increase of 35% in local currency costs and 5% in total costs. The financial
performance of the water supply and sewerage operations has been good.
However, the Nairobi City Council's (NCC) financial condition has seriously
deteriorated over the last year and it has been necessary to use funds
generated from water supply and sewerage operations to finance NCC's other
expenditures.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: January 24, 1980;
Closing Date:  July 1, 1985
The Ministry of Water Development (MWD) proposes to reduce the
scope of the project to 24 sub-projects from the originally proposed 33.
Some sub-projects have been combined with others, some areas are to be served
from existing systems and some sub-projects have been deferred to later
programs in order to accomplish this reduction in scope and to maintain the
project cost within the appraisal estimate. The project is about two years
behind schedule but the preparatory studies and designs are now well
underway. Training is progressing, procurement of vehicles is proceeding and
an acceptable water tariff structure has been reestablished.



-  6 -                       ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Projects:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is about two years behind schedule due to
administration and procurement problems which initially delayed establishment
of construction units. All eight Bank-financed construction units are fully
equipped, satisfactorily staffed and are now operational since these problems
were resolved in 1978. By December 15, 1981, 1,083 km of access roads had
been constructed or 83 km more than originally anticipated. Since June 1980,
when minimum wage was increased by 67%, the labor shortage has been resolved
and the output of construction units has been increased from 32 km/unit/year
to present output of about 50 km/unit/year, as compared with appraisal
estimates of 45km/unit/year. The gravelling operation was slow in starting
because of delays in delivery tractors and trailers, the output was low due
to the labor shortage until 1980, inadequate planning, organization and
supervision. As a result only 336 km of roads had been gravelled by December
15, 1981, and present gravelling backlog of 742 km is considered as the major
problem. The Government has taken several steps to improve gravelling output
and is considering further action to clear the backlog. The road
construction cost is within appraisal estimates. The project completion
depends on gravelling output, which will require an additional two years to
complete on the roads already constructed.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan
of April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's 5-year Highway Sector Plan
(1979-83) has been delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of
funds has caused a reduction by about 28% in the highway work program during
FY1979-82. This reduction has affected the project implementation which is
presently about 18 months behind schedule. The four contracts for
construction of the Uplands-Limuru (11 km), Naivasha-Nakuru (56 km), Mau
Summit-Kisumu (136 km) and Nakuru-Timboroa (81 km) roads were signed and the
construction is progressing satisfactorily. The tender documents for the
remaining two subprojects, Thika-Nairobi (39 km) and Longonot-Uplands (27 km)
were issued recently and the contract award is expected in September 1982.
With these commitments, project completion is expected by mid-1985 as                         '
originally scheduled. Implementation of the road maintenance program is also
slower than originally anticipated due to the financial constraints.  Road
maintenance budgetary allocations for FY82 are about 40% below actual
requirements, therefore resealing and regravelling operations are slower than
projected. Routine maintenance is generally poor due to the lack of funds,
inadequate planning, programming and supervision resulting in low utilization
of existing resources, particuarly equipment and manpower. The Government is
in the process of reviewing development and recurrent expenditures to arrive
at a more balanced annual allocations in the future.



- 37 -                        ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Loan 1976-KE - Railways Project: US$58.0 million Loan of May 7, 1981;
Effective Date: September 3, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Loan became effective on September 3, 1981, following the
receipt of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and Kenya
Railway. Crown Agents have been appointed as agents for the Kenya Railways
Corporation (KRC) and procurement is now underway. From an operations point
of view, KRC is slightly above the targets set at appraisal.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This Loan includes the US$9.0 million for the Olkaria Geothermal
Engineering Loan (S-12-KE), refinanced under this project. Progress under
the loan has been satisfactory. The first 15-MW unit was placed into
commercial service in August 1981, one month later than scheduled, and the
second 15-MW unit is expected to be in operation by December 1982, 3 months
ahead of schedule. Fifteen production wells have been drilled under this
loan and steam capable of producing 37 MW of electric power has been proven.
Three as yet untested wells are estimated to provide another 5 MW of power.
The project is expected to be completed within the cost estimate. As a
result of the success of the Project and the proven availability of surplus
geothermal energy, the Borrower has now asked the Bank to provide part of the
funds required for the installation of a third 15-MW unit, and the request is
now under consideration.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 2065-KE - Petroleum Exploration Project: UD$4.0 million
Eoan of December 8, 1981; Effective Date: January 27, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
The Loan became effective January 27, 1982.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date:  November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Seventeen sub-projects have been approved under this Loan. As at
March 31, 1982, US$20.0 million had been fully committed and US$13.5 million
had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation by Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) remains
unsatisfactory. KIE needs to (a) revise and adopt a realistic operational



-38 -                       ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
plan; (b) make the arrears collection program more systematic and effective;
(c) tighten the project selection and approval criteria to improve the
quality of projects it finances; and (d) appoint a qualified finance manager.
As of March 31, 1982, US$4.8 million had been committed for 91 subloans and
some technical assistance, but only US$1.8 million had been disbursed. About
half of the commitments were for eight subprojects with the remainder
allocated to small free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of.June 16, 1980; Effective Date:   August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Eleven subprojects have been approved under the Loan to date. As
at March 31, 1982, US$14.2 million had been committed and US$2.7 million had
been disbursed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The Project Approval Committee established under this project has
now approved three proposals to study fluorspar, diatomite and chinchona
bark processing. These submissions are now being reviewed by Bank staff.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date:  August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project is now progressing satisfactorily. Contracts for all
Bank-financed goods have been signed. Total loan disbursements as of March
31, 1982 amount to about US$9.5 million. Initial delays in procurement of
goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project completion. Kenya
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC) has completed the
installation of a total of 1,050 lines of extension equipment in eight manual
exchanges using its own funds. The balance of a total of 480 lines in four
exchanges is expected to be inservice in 1982. KPTC has also installed
17,500 (out of about 62,000) lines of automatic exchange lines, and has
commissioned microwave radio equipment to complete the Pan African
Telecommunications Network (Phase III).
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Overall project implementation is satisfactory, with major civil
works contracts in the final stages of completion. However, the community
facilities will not be completed until 1983, and additional time is required



- 39 -                       ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
to draw down the material loans.  Therefore, it will be necessary to extend
the closing date of the loan by one year. Disbursements are 87% of the
revised appraisal estimates, reflecting overall implementation delay of about
two years. Maintenance of infrastructure work and refuse collection is
unsatisfactory and remains a city-wide problem. Housing consolidation on the
whole is good. Enforcement on valuations of underdeveloped plots and plots
in arrears is taking place. However, the total amount of arrears is rising,
and the City Council has been asked to take even more vigorous action on
debtors.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 75, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is over two years behind schedule and this is reflected
in slow disbursements. However, most of the civil works contracts have now
been tendered or will be tendered in the next couple of monthns, so it is
expected that the disbursement performance will improve substantially over
the next year. Shortage of technical staff remains a problem which does not
appear to have any easy solution. The financial position of the Nairobi City
Council remains a serious problem. Mombasa M4unicipal Council has
successfully introduced its new valuation roll, and the Commissioner of Lands
has promised to provide assistance during 1982 to Kisumu in revising its
evaluation role.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM
Loan No. 1304-T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million
Loan of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing
Date:  June 30,1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. All physical components
of the project are under construction and nearing completion with the
exception of the Naivasha Training Institute, which is not expected to be
completed before approximately October 1983.  The delay is due mainly to the
late appointment of consulting architects and slow performance by the
contractors. The Tourism Pricing Study and the Very Large Herbivores Study
have been completed, and recommendations contained in these two studies are
under review by the Government. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed
and deployed, and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory.
While satisfactory arrangements have been made for payments of returns from
wildlife to ranchers in project areas, Government has been unable so far to
complete negotiations with County Councils regarding management of national
reserves as foreseen under the loan. Alternative proposals are awaited from
Government. A postponement of the closing date by about two years will be
required in order to allow the completion of the construction of the Naivasha
Institute and for the further financing of the operations of road
construction units established under the project, which commenced only
recently.



- 40 -                          ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently four projects in execution in the East African
Community.5
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project:  US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 26, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar-es-Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a
joint project completion report was issued in January 1979 for the Second and
Third Harbours projects. General cargo throughput has increased above
appraisal forecasts for Dar-es-Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has
generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours
Authority and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports
in both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA has
already been disbursed. Following project completion, a Project Completion
Report was issued dated February 16, 1979.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipmnent, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. The slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays
in procurement caused by staffing and other problems associated with the
relocation of headquarters. About US$32.2 million of the loan has now been
disbursed.
5/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
865-EA and 914-EA have passed. Hlowever, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 41 -                          ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The Loan is fully committed and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The economic difficulties of
the three countries in which EADB operates has had a negative impact on
EADB's portfolio. Helping clients to service their debts, therefore,
continues to be EADB's priority.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
D. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
March 31, 1982
Fiscal Year       Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973      Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2      0.7       5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and
1979           Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper   22.2         6.3      28.5
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                  Hotels             2.4       -        2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                      Textiles           6.3      2.8       9.1
1977          Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                      Capital Market    2.0        -        2.0
1980           Development Finance        Development
Company of Kenya Ltd.    Finance              -       1.3       1.3
1981          Kenya Commercial            Money & Capital
Finance                    Market            5.0       -        5.0
1982           Bamburi Portland           Cement &           4.6       -        4.6
Cement Co., Ltd.          Construction
Material
Total Gross Commitments                   47.7    11.1       58.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    13.7     1.8      15.5
Total Commitments now held by IFC         34.0      9.3     43.3
Total Undisbursed                         14.7       -       14.7



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project : one year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:  KPTC
(c)  First Presentation to Bank         :  April 1981
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  November 1981
(e)  Completion of Negotiations            April 1982
(f)  Loan Effectiveness planned            August 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   (1)  Government of Kenya will, by July 1, 1983 complete a
study, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
of potential organization and cost economies which might
be gained by further consolidation of the sector. The
Government of Kenya will, within three months of completion
of the study, provide the Bank with a copy of the study
and exchange views on its recommendations (paragraph 57);
(2) KPTC will:
(a) by January 1, 1984, employ economists, financial
analysts and engineers in its Corporate Planning and
Management Services Department to address fundamental
issues related to intermediate and long term planning
(paragraph 56);
(b) maintain its tariffs at levels sufficient to achieve
a rate of return of at least 10 percent on revalued
average net fixed telecommunications assets in operation
(paragraph 58);



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) by December 31 of the year in which the division
of EAPTC's assets and liabilities are allocated, KPTC
will resolve the book value of its fixed assets according
to methods acceptable to the Bank, and therefore revalue                           4
these assets whenever their value has appreciated by 10
percent since the previous revaluation (paragraph 58); and
(d) not use telecommunications revenues for purposes
other than telecommunications development and
operations, unless such revenues are in excess of
telecommunications requirements (paragraph 58).
(3) Special conditions of effectiveness include: (i) the
Government will provide the Bank with a letter giving
the details of the cofinancing agreement between the
Governments of Kenya and Japan, including, inter alia, the
credit amount, terms and conditions, and expected
effectiveness date (paragraph 52); and (ii) a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Kenya
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation shall have been
executed (paragraph 52).



VI   'N~~~~~~~~~~
CCCC~~~~~~~~3C ~~~~~~ C  CC CCC CC  'N       ~        ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      KD  D44  IVD~NN
*   ,      'N                            CC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-;JD]V  DCV 
,  'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pd,
CC  a                                  'N                                                        CC410~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-X ICC VINVW
C~~CIC. C  CCCCVC  *1I  I  ..                                        J                           CVN.C ADUID 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-4QCC~
a  C.              r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S,VRy  Iivlil
*  .2          ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        CCCCCI~~~~
*                                             C                                                             CCCICCC  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
UD~~~~~~~~II'V,Y NNC
ma                                                    C'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
V L d  H I~~~~~~~~'                                        ~CCC 
1.10 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A)NVCIC,C  1
m4GN sg uD4:)xg 10301~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                  CC
'V kN     3                                                                                      'Na                                                    



