                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                          International Development Association
                             International Finance Corporation
                        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                                                                            87344

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                       CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                    EDS2000-200
                                                                                    June 21, 2000
                                                                                     05:56:10 PM


Statement by Todd Crawford
Date of Meeting: June 22, 2000

                ECUADOR - Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report (R2000-102),
              Structural Adjustment Program (R2000-105), and Financial Sector Technical
                                    Assistance Project (R2000-113)


1.      We endorse the Country Assistance Strategy for FYs 2000-2002 outlined in the Progress
Report and we support both the Structural Adjustment Program Loan (SAL) and the Financial
Sector Technical Assistance Project. All three are well tailored to help the Government of
Ecuador restore macroeconomic stability, strengthen public sector financial management, rebuild
the financial sector, promote private sector investment, and improve the delivery of social
services to the poorest and most vulnerable sections of the population. We commend the
Government for steps that it has already taken to put the economy back on the path to sustainable
growth and reduce poverty. We were pleased that the Government was able to resolve important
financial sector issues, which could have delayed Board consideration of the Progress Report and
the loans. We encourage the Government to continue working closely with the World Bank
Group and other international financial institutions to maintain the reform momentum and ensure
continuity of international financial support. We also urge the Government to continue its
consultations with civil society to strengthen domestic political support for needed reforms.
Public disclosure of this Progress Report and of the SAL could contribute to greater
understanding and stronger political support and we urge the Government to request such
disclosure.

CAS Priorities and Lending Cases

2.      We appreciate the concise Progress Report on the Bank Group's Country Assistance
Strategy. OED's June 4 Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) for Ecuador is a helpful
companion piece even if, having only received it on June 19, we have not had the opportunity to
digest fully its insights. However, it is clear that the Progress Report reflects many of the lessons
of the Bank's experience in Ecuador, including the desirability of a limited number of smaller,
manageable projects and the need to base fast-disbursing assistance on policy actions that have
already been implemented. We are skeptical about the CAE's suggestion regarding adaptable
program loans. Given the modest effects of the Bank's projects on institutional development
over the previous CAS period, it may be difficult to develop the well defined milestones,
performance indicators, and policy requirements necessary to justify use of this lending
instrument.

3.      We commend staff for the selectivity evident in Progress Report. We endorse the
strategy's priorities and its balance of short and medium-term measures to cushion the effects of
the economic recession on the poor, rehabilitate the banking sector, improve public sector
management, and implement structural reforms to promote private sector investment and poverty
reduction. We welcome the explicit information about activities that the Bank will not
undertake. We support the base case lending scenario and its triggers, as well as the indicators
that would trigger a low case lending scenario. We could also envision a high case lending
scenario, if justified by the Government's performance and commitment to economic reform.
However, we would welcome staff's clarification of the triggers for such a scenario. Those
proposed in Table 2 are difficult to distinguish from the triggers for the base case.

Improving Efficiency and Effectiveness of Public Sector Expenditures

4.      The economic contraction of the past year has worsened poverty in Ecuador and caused
further deterioration of social conditions. A key to reversing this poverty trend is to improve
access to health and educational services by the Ecuadorian population, notably the rural,
indigenous, and Afro-Ecuadorian people who comprise the majority of the poor. In this regard,
the Government faces the difficult task of ensuring adequate financing for expenditure programs
that have a high impact on the poor while meeting the fiscal performance criteria of the stand-by
arrangement with the IMF. This requires careful prioritization of programs based on their
efficiency and effectiveness with respect to targeted populations.

5.      Improvements in public procurement will contribute to the efficiency and effectiveness of
public sector expenditures. In this regard, we are pleased that the Bank and the Government
recently completed a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). Some discussion in the
Progress Report of its findings and recommendations would have been helpful. Full
implementation of its time-bound 11-point action plan is essential, not least because we are also
considering today the approval of fast-disbursing assistance to Ecuador. We believe that
implementation of at least the early elements of this plan should have incorporated into the
tranche release conditions for the SAL.

6.      We welcome the information in Annex 4 of the SAL about the social sector expenditure
programs that the Government will protect with assistance under the SAL. Preserving and
eventually increasing the volume of spending on these programs is the first step. The second and
equally important step is to increase their efficiency and effectiveness within a framework of
strengthened institutional capacities. We understand that the Government will begin later this
year some studies to evaluate the impact and cost effectiveness of these programs. We believe it
would be useful to put those studies into the broader context of a Public Expenditure Review to
illuminate the trade-offs not only among social expenditures themselves, but between social and
non-social expenditure and investment programs. A PER would complement a major objective
of the SAL, which intends to return the bulk of tax revenues to central Government budget
control. A PER would also help to lay the foundation for privatization by clarifying options for
use of privatization proceeds including, for example, environmental programs to promote
sustainable development and social programs to mitigate any initial adverse effects of reduced
public sector employment. Finally, a PER is needed to provide critical input for a high case
lending scenario and would be a necessary building block of possible further structural
adjustment lending.

Expanding the Role of the Private Sector

7.      The gap between Ecuador's private investment as a percentage of GDP, compared with
private sector investment rates in other developing countries in Latin America and East Asia, is a
measure of foregone opportunities for growth. We concur with the emphasis that the Progress
Report and the SAL place on removing constraints to capturing this wasted potential.
Strengthening prudential regulation and supervision of the banking system, rebuilding its
liquidity and capital, and establishing an appropriate framework for corporate debt restructuring
are key to restoring financial intermediation and achieving the levels of private sector investment
needed to sustain job creation, economic growth, and poverty reduction. We welcome the
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan and the elements of the SAL that are intended to
address these issues.

8.      A vibrant private sector in Ecuador will also require a transparent and predictable
regulatory and legal environment. In this context, we appreciate the CAS's candid discussion of
long-standing problems with corruption and the weakness of the judicial system. We welcome
the Bank's on-going and planned assistance for judicial reform and support for the Government's
National Anti-corruption Plan. We also welcome the Bank's assistance to improve the legal and
regulatory framework for private sector involvement in the electricity, telecommunications, and
hydrocarbons sector. We support the IFC's engagement in Ecuador and would look forward to
its expanded involvement and to MIGA's engagement as the climate for employment-generating
private sector investment improves.

Building Consensus for Reform

9.      Both the CAS and the SAL point to the significant domestic political and social risks to
the Government's economic program and Bank assistance. These risks underscore the
importance of on-going consultations with civil society to build a political consensus in favor of
the Government's macroeconomic and structural reform program. We welcome the analytical
work on social issues that the Bank did over the past 18 months leading up to this progress
report, as well as the range of consultations that were held to prepare this CAS Progress Report,
including consultations with women's, labor, and Afro-Ecuadorian groups. We encourage the
Bank and the Government to continue their efforts to broaden such consultations. We look
forward to a broad participatory process to underpin the next full CAS. Public disclosure of both
the Progress Report and the SAL are essential, as this will contribute to the Government's efforts
to create understanding and consensus. We would also urge the Bank and the Government to
look for ways to involve civil society in monitoring expenditures financed by the SAL, as this
can also help broaden appreciation of the efforts to support and expand social protection
programs.

10.      We place equal importance on consultations by the Government and the Bank with civil
society in the preparation of specific Bank-supported projects. Early consultations with key
stakeholders to address labor and environmental issues are essential to ensure quality at entry and
successful implementation of a number of the investment projects envisioned in Annex B-3 of
the Progress Report. In this regard, we are encouraged by the progress that Ecuador has made in
clearing its wage arrears to public sector workers. Going forward, consultations among the
Government, labor, and employers about the country's reform efforts can contribute to
harmonious relations and help to smooth the path of reform. Korea's experience may be
illustrative, as some have given its Tripartite Commission a large measure of credit for the
absence of serious labor-management confrontations that could have exacerbated the crisis and
slowed the recovery. We also encourage the Government to spare, to the maximum extent
possible, cuts to programs that fund or facilitate the preservation of Ecuador's forests and
biological diversity.

Non-lending Services

11.     In this context, we are concerned that planned economic and sector work (ESW) outlined
in Annex B-5 of the Progress Report does not explicitly refer to knowledge generation, problem
solving or other products that would help the Government plan for potential social and
environmental consequences of increased private sector investment in the electricity,
telecommunications, and hydrocarbons sectors. We believe that ESW on these issues is vital to
complement, and should proceed simultaneously with, the Bank's assistance under the SAL to
elaborate the legal and regulatory environment for privatization or other private investment in
these sectors. Such ESW could lay the basis for an informed dialogue with civil society as Bank
operations such as the Public Sector Reform and Privatization loan are developed. With sizable
private investment envisioned in a new trans-Andean heavy crude oil pipeline, ESW to address
environmental impacts is urgent. We strongly encourage the Bank to look again at the planned
program of ESW with a view to funding early work on privatization and environmental issues, as
well as a full PER.

Structural Adjustment and Technical Assistance Loans

12.     We have already indicated our support for the SAL and the Financial Sector TAL. We
commend the Government for the substantial reforms already implemented to qualify for the first
tranche of the SAL, but underscore again the importance of maintaining the reform momentum
so as to sustain international financial support. We concur with the conditions established for
release of the second tranche and for the two floating tranches, although as noted above we
would have recommended incorporating at least the early elements of the 11-point procurement
action plan into the conditions for tranche release. We wish the Government every success in
carrying out this important reform program.
