                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 30936

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                           (SCL-45670)

                                              ON A

                                    LOAN (Loan No. 4567-EC)

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                             FOR A

                     FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN




                                        December 29, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastrucure Department
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                      (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                     Currency Unit = US Dollar
                                                   1 = US$ 1
                                             US$ 1 = 1
                                          Republic of Ecuador
                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1    December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGD      Deposit Guarantee Agency (Agencia de Garantía de Depósitos)
BCE      Central Bank of Ecuador (Banco Central de Ecuador)
BTOR     Back-to-Office Report
CAF      Andean Development Corporation (Corporación Andina de Fomento)
CAMELS   Capital, Assets, Management, Earnings, Liabilities and Sensitivity
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDR      Rescheduled Deposit Certificate (Certificado de Depósito Reprogramado)
COF      Co-financing
FSTAL    Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOE      Government of Ecuador
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IADB     InterAmerican Development Bank
IFI      International Financial Institution
IMF      International Monetary Fund
MEF      Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
MOP      Memorandum of the President
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NBF      Non-Bank Financed
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NPV      Net Present Value
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PMR      Project Management Report
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PSR      Project Status Report
SAL      Structural Adjustment Loan
SBS      Superintendency of Banks and Insurance (Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros)
SFO      Special Financial Operations
SME      Small and Medium Enterprises
TA       Technical Assistance
TAL      Technical Assistance Loan
TOR      Terms of Reference
UEGI     Management and Implementation Executing Unit (Unidad Ejecutora de Gestión e Implementación)
URC      Debt Restructuring Unit (Unidad de Reestructuración de Créditos)


                                   Vice President:       David de Ferranti
                                Country Director         Marcelo Giugale
                                  Sector Manager         John Henry Stein
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                Mcdonald P. Benjamin

                                          ECUADOR
                FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P064045                                                  Project Name: EC Fin Sectr TA Ln
Team Leader: Mcdonald P. Benjamin                                    TL Unit: LCCEC
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: EC Fin Sectr TA Ln                                       L/C/TF Number: SCL-45670
   Country/Department: ECUADOR                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (50%); Banking (35%); Capital
                            markets (10%); Law and justice (5%)
                  Theme: Other public sector governance (P); Corporate governance (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Legal institutions
                            for a market economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/15/1999                                     Effective: 02/22/2001                02/22/2001
     Appraisal: 11/15/1999                                         MTR:                             05/04/2003
      Approval: 06/22/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR/SUPERINTENDENCY OF BANKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:                 Jack Stein
Team Leader at ICR:             Mcdonald P. Benjamin
ICR Primary Author:             Hela Cheikhrouhou


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.0. Relevant Project Context:

The Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan was put in place as part of a joint multilateral response to
support the Ecuadorian Authorities' efforts to deal with a major economic and financial sector crisis in
1999.

Ecuador's banking crisis came about as a result of a combination of weak governance and supervision
of banks as well as multiple external shocks. In 1994 legal reforms promoted banking sector
liberalization while at the same time substantially weakening banking supervision by restricting the
intervention powers of the Superintendency of Banks and Insurance (SBS). This contributed to a quick
deterioration in banks' financial strength as a result of questionable lending and prudential practices.
Moreover, macroeconomic volatility and high inflation rates led to high real interest rates and short loan
terms for corporates, increasing the financial burden for corporates, which for tax law and other reasons
were already inclined to over-leverage their balance sheets. This made them even more vulnerable to the
multiple external shocks that struck Ecuador between 1997-99, including the El Niño phenomenon,
tumbling prices for oil and banana exports, the devastation of shrimp production by "white spot" disease,
as well as capital flight from the region following the East Asian and Russian crises. Finally, many
corporates had borrowed in dollars due to lower interest rates than on loans in sucres, but had not hedged
their foreign exchange risks adequately, and when the worsening macroeconomic situation led to rapid
depreciation of the sucre, non-performing loans rose quickly particularly for dollar-denominated loans,
leading banks to become increasingly illiquid and in some cases insolvent.

The Government responded to the crisis by providing liquidity advances to banks, introducing a
blanket guarantee on deposits in late 1998 through a new Deposit Guarantee Agency (AGD), freezing
access to all deposits in March 1999, and thereafter intervening several banks and gradually restoring
the functioning of the financial system. External audits of all banks were commissioned by AGD in June
1999, so as to classify banks into three categories according to their relative financial strength and quality
of management: a) banks to be reopened, b) to be publicly managed till re-privatized and c) to be
liquidated. The first two categories reopened their doors after the audit results were announced in
mid-1999, while the Authorities also designed a program for gradual unfreezing of the deposits of relatively
viable banks, starting with current accounts in September 1999. However, the fiscal crisis that
Government faced in addition to the banking crisis led to a default on Brady bonds in August 1999,
accelerating capital flight, and eventually resulting in formal dollarization in January 2000. This measure,
while helping to stabilize the economy (including the financial system), also implied that the Central Bank
could no longer act as lender of last resort and therefore increased the need for sound liquidity management
within the banking system, even as deposits were still being un-frozen. Full access to time deposits for
open banks was restored in March 2000, with implicit backing through a $2 billion rescue package
announced by multilateral donors that included the World Bank's FSTAL loan. With the number of open
banks down from 38 to 21 between 1998 and 2000, the number of open finance companies halved to 12,
the ratio of bank credit to GDP down from 25% to 10%, and close to 70% of banking assets under public
(i.e. AGD) management by early 2000, the challenge that the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
(FSTAL) faced in early 2000 was to support the Authorities' efforts to achieve an orderly and rapid
resolution of closed banks, re-privatize viable banks under public administration, and strengthen the legal,
prudential and supervisory framework so as to foster a sustainable long-term recovery of the financial
system.

3.1.     Original Objective:
The FSTAL aimed at assisting the Ecuadorian government to manage and confront the deep financial



                                                      - 2 -

sector crisis faced by the country, and strengthening the regulatory framework and supervisory capacity of
the Authorities in order to foster the long term soundness and efficiency of the banking system.

Short-term objectives of the loan included: (i) strengthening the institutional capacity of the
Superintendency of Banks and Insurance (SBS) and the Deposit Guarantee Agency (AGD) to manage the
banking crisis; (ii) developing a comprehensive strategy that adequately links the programs for bank
recovery, debt restructuring and asset sale under a coherent framework to resolve the crisis and minimize
its fiscal cost; (iii) promoting orderly and efficient recovery of assets acquired by AGD; (iv) improving the
capacity of authorities to temporarily manage the banks under public ownership; (v) re-privatizing open
banks under public ownership, (since the loan amendment of March 2002, this has meant supporting the
re-privatization of the open bank under the management of the Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE)); (vi)
strengthening banking regulation, supervision and enforcement, adopting international standards; and (vii)
developing a framework for effective corporate and household debt restructuring that provides debt relief to
viable debtors while helping them to restore their long term solvency and profitability.

The longer-term objectives included helping the banking system resume fully normal credit operations, and
establishing the basis for a sound and efficient financial system.

Assessment of the Development Objective:

The FSTAL's Development Objective was clearly anchored in the matrix of actions for financial
sector crisis resolution agreed by Government with the four international financial institutions (IFIs),
especially the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF). The FSTAL was part of the Bank's
$425 million contribution to the overall donor package, as described in the CAS Progress Report for
2000-2002 prepared in the lingering crisis conditions of early 2000. Thus the $10m FSTAL was presented
to the Bank's Board of Directors with the CAS and with a $151.5m Structural Adjustment Loan
(EC-SAL-P070337) in June 2000.

The FSTAL provided direct support to help Ecuadorian Authorities fulfill the SAL's second tranche
conditionalities under the financial sector component. Structural adjustment operations do not include
funding for TA, which was greatly needed in this case to help the Ecuadorian Authorities chart a strategy
for the financial sector, improve supervisory practices and push forward with the corporate and household
debt restructuring for debtors owing more than US$50,000. As such, the FSTAL's stated objective was
clear, corresponded to important country needs, and was responsive to key Government priorities.

Nevertheless, the development objectives stated for the FSTAL appear overly ambitious in the sense
that they downplay the institutional weakness of the main beneficiary agency, i.e. the newly created
AGD, as well as its potential vulnerability to political influence. This project should have been flagged
as high (rather than substantial) risk from the beginning because the main component's beneficiary agency
did not have a proven track record of institutional continuity and had a new and very sensitive mandate, and
there were already indications at the time of project design that AGD could be vulnerable to political
pressures. Furthermore, the PIU located in the SBS found it difficult to coordinate with AGD for project
execution. While the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) reckoned that the project faced substantial risks,
none of them clearly pointed at the intrinsic fragility of AGD as an institution, nor were the risk mitigation
mechanisms adequate to address the challenges presented by an institution with weak governance subject to
rapid staff turnover, and with a mandate to recover large non-performing loans from large and at times
politically powerful debtors.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's overall development objective was not revised. An amendment to the loan in 2002
introduced BCE as a beneficiary agency but did not change any of the development objectives. The second
loan amendment that was attempted in 2003 but could not be effected before Project Closing in June 2004



                                                        - 3 -

would have maintained the overall objective but shifted the priorities of the loan away from asset
management and from re-privatization of intervened banks, towards legal reform and institutional capacity
building in BCE and SBS, in line with the government's financial sector strategy prepared in consultation
with the Bank, as a basis for developing a robust, deep and efficient financial system in the long term.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of three main technical assistance components directed respectively to the Deposit
Guarantee Agency, the Superintendency of Banks and Insurance, and the Debt Restructuring Unit (URC,
part of the SBS). A residual amount was dedicated to PIU support.

Component 1: Strengthening of Deposit Guarantee Agency, AGD ($6.3 million)

Under this component, the project was to finance activities that would help: prepare and update regularly a
coherent banking and corporate sector strategy; modernize the legal framework; prepare a study to identify
obstacles for the sale of assets of closed banks; implement AGD's Business Plan; strengthen AGD
institutionally; Upgrade AGD's information technology; manage and sell the assets of closed banks;
conduct due diligence on AGD banks' largest assets; provide advisory and executive services to improve
the management of public banks; and provide advisory services to re-privatize AGD's open banks.

Component 2: Strengthening of Banking Supervision (US$4.6 million, including US$1.6 million
financed by the Bank)

The Bank-financed portion was to finance activities to strengthen in-situ supervision; conduct
complementary audits (of sociedades financieras); and modernize the legal framework for banking
supervision. In parallel, an Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) program was to focus on effective
organization and human resources policies, quality control systems, enhanced prudential regulations that
comply with Basle Core Principles, strengthening extra-situ supervision, including risk models and an
updated chart of accounts, and the upgrading of information systems of the SBS. Parallel financing by the
Andean Development Corporation (CAF) was to focus on strengthening the Project Implementation Unit.

Component 3: Corporate and Household Debt Restructuring (US$1.4 million)

This component had activities to prepare and implement a framework for corporate and household debt
restructuring; eliminate the obstacles to corporate and household debt restructuring; and develop a program
for debt restructuring of SMEs.

Component 4: Project Management (US$1.14 million, of which US$0.1 million Bank-financed)

Bank financing was destined to training of PIU staff on auditing, procurement, financial management and
other aspects of project implementation.




                                                     - 4 -

Assessment of Project Design Components

The project components were designed in line with overall project objectives and included activities
designed in response to evolving needs identified through extensive dialogue with the Authorities and
the IFIs. The Bank had been closely involved in policy discussions with Ecuadorian counterparts together
with the IMF, IDB and CAF since 1998. The design of a TAL and its core activities had first been
contemplated in early 1999, when it became evident that an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant
would be inadequate given the amount of TA and capacity building required. However, the specific
components to be included in the TAL evolved over time, first in response to changes in counterpart needs
as Government met urgent requirements with own resources (e.g. AGD funded the international audits in
mid-1999), second to a sequence of significant monetary, fiscal and regulatory decisions by the Ecuadorian
Authorities, including passage of omnibus legislation in March 2000 that amended financial and corporate
sector laws, and third to address related strategy design, regulatory strengthening and troubled bank
management activities identified in the IMF and Bank portions of the joint policy matrix with the IFIs. As
such, the FSTAL helped implement the financial and corporate elements of the SAL.

The design of the largest component, AGD institutional strengthening, would have benefited from
defining ways to mitigate the risks stemming from this institution's weak capacity and governance.
The activities proposed under this component constituted a logical sequence towards a combination of
troubled banks' resolution and AGD capacity building, but the implicit assumption that AGD would
consistently be a willing and cooperative counterpart in this project failed to reflect already clear signs that
this new institution was evolving in a volatile regulatory and political environment, with ongoing changes in
the scope of its powers and its key personnel (the balance of institutional responsibilities between AGD,
BCE and SBS was changing, and AGD had high rotation in its leadership). Greater risk mitigation could
have been implemented, for example, by exploring the possibility of seeking agreement with the Authorities
under the complementary IMF or Bank SAL programs regarding the mechanisms for nomination and the
incentives for management of the banks under AGD control, as well as clearly defining reporting and
oversight arrangements for those banks.

The FSTAL risk mitigation mechanisms relied heavily on plan for "exceptionally intensive
supervision" and implicitly relied on cross-conditionality with IFI policy matrices. The use of the
mechanism of cross-conditionality was not highlighted explicitly in the PAD and presented its own risks for
the project, insofar as e.g. the IMF decided to waive or adapt conditions within its portion of the matrix in
response to changing circumstances, creating an unidentified risk for the Bank's FSTAL project.

Evidence of lack of ownership of some activities by the beneficiary agencies includes repeated
requests of extensions to comply with some of the conditions for loan disbursement, or simple lack of
implementation. Under the loan agreement, AGD and SBS were supposed to push respectively for drafting
amendments to the Law for Reordering Economic Matters in Tax and Financial Areas and to the Financial
Institutions Law as part of the loan conditions. Similarly, AGD was supposed to conduct due diligence on
its large credits portfolio. These legal and due diligence activities were repeatedly deferred and ultimately
never submitted, possibly because the timing was politically inopportune for revamping the laws, especially
given advances achieved through earlier amendments introduced between 1998-2000 to handle the crisis.
Another reason for postponement, in the case of the Financial Institutions Law, was that the SBS reached
agreement with the Bank on the need to design the desirable architecture for the financial system before
submitting the legal reforms.

Some loan activities appear to have had inadequate design. This is the case for the corporate governance
regulation under corporate restructuring component. One reason why this never materialized is that it was
not under SBS control but rather an area for the Superintendency of Companies, which was not interested
in promoting it. A similar problem occurred with restructuring of loans for small debtors (under $50,000),



                                                       - 5 -

which had already become redundant by the Board date through the adoption of the first omnibus law.

3.4 Revised Components:
Component 4: Assist BCE with Management and Privatization of an Intervened Bank

Following a legal problem in May 2001 with AGD's recapitalization of an intervened bank, the Central
Bank of Ecuador assumed full ownership of that bank. In order to support international management and
re-privatization of said bank, a loan amendment was signed in March 2002 whereby BCE became a
beneficiary agency and US$3.5 million of the US$6.3 million originally assigned to AGD were passed to
BCE.

In the course of the Mid-Term Review (MTR) mission of May 4-8, 2003, the Bank and the Borrower
attempted to restructure the project. The new AGD management that took over early in 2003 indicated
that it would not require most of the $2.8 million remaining in its component (although it only confirmed its
intent to exit entirely from the project in August 2003). The BCE also confirmed its intent not to use the
$3.5 million assigned to it for bank management and re-privatization, but it identified new TA requirements
in the areas of payments systems, the liquidity mechanism, an early warning system, monitoring of real
estate markets and asset disposition, for a total of US$1.6 million. The SBS identified as a key
requirement upgrading of information technology, particularly installing a new main server, and upon
recommendation of the Bank, rationalizing information requirements and establishing an emergency
back-up system for its central information system. Other key areas involved increased support for broader
legal and regulatory reform and related training, as well as strengthening the research and early warning
system areas. The total planned SBS support amounted to US$5 million.

The second loan amendment never took place due to lack of agreement within government agencies.
Although the loan restructuring proposals were submitted to the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)
in September 2003 and received early support in October that year, a series of legal problems and other
concerns emerged from a MEF analysis the day before planned renegotiation of the FSTAL in November
2003, leading to a further restructuring process over the next four months with substantial field-based
support from the task manager. Whereas the concerns raised by MEF appeared to have been settled by
mid-April 2004, for the second time on the verge of a planned renegotiation of the loan agreement, a
difficulty emerged as MEF advised the beneficiary agencies, BCE and SBS, that they would need to
assume responsibility for repaying the TA loan. The latter were unwilling, and in the case of SBS legally
unable, to assume this responsibility, since the original loan agreement did not require this and the expected
benefits went well beyond their particular agencies. Since this problem of financial liability could not be
resolved before the Closing Date of June 30, 2004, the proposed loan restructuring and second loan
amendment never took place.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project is rated Moderately Satisfactory for overall quality at entry.

The project was highly relevant to the CAS objectives of transparent financial crisis resolution and
strengthening bank supervision to minimize the risks of a recurrence. The FSTAL was designed to support
these objectives, which were enshrined in a broader policy reform matrix agreed between government and
the IFIs. The government was keen on getting all possible support to resolve the ongoing crisis. The
FSTAL was also an appropriate complement to financial and corporate aspects of the SAL. Due to the
nature of the support, the Bank's safeguard policies were reasonably considered not to constitute an issue
for the FSTAL. Moreover, as the next section indicates, the areas that were implemented had important and
sustainable benefits.

The objectives of the project components were in line with the country priorities in restoring normal



                                                      - 6 -

banking sector operations by ensuring a smooth resolution of intervened banks and a comprehensive
restructuring process for corporate and household debt. The project also aimed at strengthening the
institutional capacity of two key agencies with an important mandate: the AGD to manage the process of
asset recovery, insured deposits repayments and banks re-privatizations; and the SBS to strengthen
financial institutions' practices for a sounder system, more capable of withholding unfavorable economic
cycle. Moreover, the project design was done by a team of seasoned experts in the areas of banking
supervision, banking resolution and corporate and household debt restructuring, with extensive exposure to
previous banking crises such as the East Asian crisis. On the Ecuadorian side, the Authorities established
an implementation coordination agency (UEGI) in SBS, staffed by line officials, and headed by a seasoned
senior official, to work closely with the FSTAL team and those of the other IFIs.

Given that the main beneficiary agency AGD was newly created, the project team did provide it with
extensive technical support to help it get ready for the project effectiveness and implementation. On the
other hand, this support was focused on only certain institutional aspects and on planned project activities,
even as AGD suffered from additional institutional weaknesses due to high key staff turnover and a
politically sensitive mandate, thus affecting the agency's capacity to sustain its commitment as a
counterpart in project implementation. This risk was understated and the corresponding risk-mitigation
measures proved inadequate. Moreover, by the time loan became effective, a few activities had become
redundant, and the Ecuadorian Authorities had received significant in-kind TA from donors, thus
weakening their interest in the TAL instrument. Finally, the time-line for TAL actions, particularly for the
procurement of international consultancies, was over-optimistic, reflecting a mismatch between the Bank's
procurement policies for large-value consultancies and the need to respond quickly under crisis
circumstances, which has been a generic challenge for these types of financial TALs.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The final Development Outcome rating for this project is Unsatisfactory, in line with the final Project
Status Report. The development outcome had been rated satisfactory until 2003 due to advances in
certain aspects of the project, namely corporate debt restructuring and strengthening of banking
supervision. The main reasons for the final Unsatisfactory rating are, first, low disbursements (only 16
percent); second, failure to achieve most of its major original objectives; and third, failure to adopt the
second loan amendment that would have extended its execution and delivered a wide set of TA activities to
BCE and SBS. This amendment had become essential because, over time, the original project components
diverged increasingly from the beneficiary agencies' immediate needs and priorities.


4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                      - 7 -

Component 1: Strengthening of AGD

The outputs for this component are rated Unsatisfactory, as the activities foreseen in this component
were never undertaken. In the process of complying with the FSTAL's effectiveness conditions, AGD
received a significant amount of free technical support through the Bank's Special Financial Operations
(SFO) unit, to come up with an institutional organization and business strategy, criteria for due diligence
and sale of assets, and criteria for evaluation of open banks' administrators, inter alia. Once project
implementation had begun, even though procurement procedures were initiated to contract international
administrators for two of the larger intervened banks that were expected to be re-privatized, in the case of
one bank, as mentioned above, AGD's capitalization of the bank was questioned legally and the bank was
transferred to BCE, whereas in the case of the other bank, MEF informed the World Bank in May 2001
that the procurement process for the international administrators--which had already been adversely
affected by the steady withdrawal of bidders--would be suspended due to a rapid deterioration in the
bank's financial position, making it essential to contract an international firm to enter immediately. MEF
was concerned about the potential for systemic contagion due to the delays, and estimated that the Bank's
procurement procedures would have taken one year from start to finish, which the country could not afford1
.

The first FSTAL amendment was sent to Government in August 2001, not only to transfer US$3.5 million
from the AGD component to BCE as a new beneficiary agency, but also to reaffirm that the remaining
US$2.8 million in the AGD component would be used to assist AGD with institutional strategy, asset
recovery, information tecnology support and capacity enhancement. Thanks to extensive Bank support,
AGD had all but completed all the needed procurement steps to proceed with asset due diligence and sale in
May 2001 but there was a sudden management change and the very future of AGD came into question for
a few months in late 2001. While the Government reaffirmed AGD's mandate by the end of the year, new
AGD management informed the Bank in late 2001 that it would not use FSTAL proceeds to hire external
consultants since it decided to manage the assets of closed banks on their own. This decision was confirmed
by AGD's Board of Directors only in May 2002. The component was not immediately cancelled though,
since there were upcoming elections and the need for such FSTAL assistance was still deemed manifest in
light of AGD's limited results with asset inventories, management and disposition, and with loan collection
through the closed banks it oversaw. On the other hand, after the elections the management appointed by
the new Administration that assumed power in January 2003 informed the Mid-Term Review mission of its
decision to use no FSTAL resources except perhaps for computers which it lacked. Only in August 2003
was a final decision taken by AGD not to use any FSTAL funds and to cease to act as an beneficiary
agency.

Unfortunately AGD did not achieve the expected results with its own resources. Notwithstanding
extraordinary legal powers for loan enforcement (known as coactiva), AGD has not been as effective as
hoped in loan collection, and the institution has suffered from weak governance, managerial instability and
political pressures. Moreover, AGD falls into a supervisory void, since SBS is not supervising AGD's
management of the closed banks, and oversight by the Controller General of the State (CGE) is only
accounting-related but not risk based.

Component 2: Strengthening of Banking Supervision

The overall rating for the outputs of this component is Moderately Satisfactory. Despite the fact that
amounts disbursed (60 percent of the loan amount for this component) and outputs achieved under this
component were only partial, FSTAL assistance had a sizeable impact on SBS as it helped develop on-site
and risk-based supervision and build capacity among personnel. Due to the failure to pass the second loan
amendment and extension, the project fell short of achieving the expected reforms to the legal framework
and the complementary audit of financial companies.



                                                      - 8 -

Ecuador achieved substantial improvement in its banking regulation and supervisory practices as a
result of the efforts undertaken by the SBS after the banking crisis, with the help of the Bank's
FSTAL as well as of the IDB. On the regulatory side, the SBS introduced provisions to eliminate
connected lending in 2000, and required a new single catalogue of accounts for financial institutions as of
June 2001. This complemented requirements to publish quarterly financial statements together with
financial ratios compared with industry averages, and above all, SBS phased in capital requirements in line
with Basle Core Principles by December 2003. The dialogue with the Bank and FSTAL support
contributed partially to these advances. On the supervisory side, the FSTAL financed the development of a
new operational manual for on-site examination and related training, thereby substantially upgrading
examination procedures, while the IDB provided complementary support for off-site monitoring. The new
supervisory approach of the SBS is based on the CAMELS2 methodology; it is well focused, the banking
industry has noted a considerable improvement in on-site examination, and it should increasingly bear fruit
as SBS progressively internalizes and implements the more risk-oriented approach.

The modernization of the legal framework for the financial sector, planned as part of the FSTAL
support to SBS, did not take place. The FSTAL was supposed to finance the revision of the General Law
of Financial Institutions to simplify and strengthen the legal framework for the sector. One of the root
causes of the pre-crisis deterioration of Ecuadorian banks was the weakening of laws governing SBS's
supervisory functions. After 1998, a patchwork of amendments had been introduced to address immediate
crisis requirements, thus, it was important to revise, unify and simplify the legislation in line with
international best practices. As the timing was not considered politically opportune prior to the October
2002 general elections, the Authorities began by commissioning two papers under the FSTAL to propose a
new financial architecture for Ecuador. These papers served as an input to the "Financial Sector Strategy
and Action Plan", prepared in March 2003 by the Ecuadorian Authorities with FSTAL team support. This
core document detailed, among others, the legal changes required to help SBS carry out efficiently its
supervisory functions, including for example enhanced legal protection for banking supervisors and
de-politicizing the position of Banking Superintendent. In addition, a series of activities was recommended
to develop an Early Warning System to detect weak financial institutions and deal with them. SBS
developed a detailed action plan for the strategy, that would have been supported through increased FSTAL
resources under the second loan amendment, and in April 2004 the FSTAL team sent a Bank expert to
Ecuador to discuss legal and regulatory reforms governing the increasingly important area of
micro-finance, however the failure to adopt the second loan amendment meant that the planned legal and
regulatory reform and related training was not undertaken.

The complementary audits of finance companies contemplated under the FSTAL never materialized.
This activity was postponed until it was eventually too late to conduct the audit within the time-frame of the
project. The detailed TORs for the audits had been prepared in 2002, fine-tuned in 2003 and in late 2003
the project team gave its no objection to an increase in the amount allocated for these audits from
US$300,000 to US$480,000 using excess funds under the in-situ supervision sub-component. The
procurement had been successfully completed but disbursement did not happen, partially because the MEF
had set a cap of US$100,000 for total disbursements under the FSTAL for 2004 due to tight overall fiscal
space and to the slow disbursement record of the loan. This cap was not sufficient to allow SBS to proceed
with signature of the contracts. While this activity was re-incorporated in the second amendment, the latter
was never implemented.

The overall impact of the SBS strengthening was severely reduced by the non-adoption of the second
loan amendment, which was not only going to deliver on the legal and audit items, but also provide much
needed upgrading of technology and information analysis and staff capacity building. These are still key
areas of institutional development in need of support.




                                                      - 9 -

Component 3: Corporate and Household Debt Restructuring

The rating of the outputs for this component is Satisfactory, but moderately so. While only 30
percent of the loan amount allocated to this component was disbursed, the support provided through the
FSTAL was critical in the corporate and household debt restructuring process for debtors with loans above
US$50,000 and while the competition and bankruptcy laws drafted have not been adopted, they are being
used as a basis for future multilateral support. Had the loan been extended through the second amendment,
a US$0.76 million amount would have provided much needed financial support for adequate follow up on
debt restructuring results.

3.(a) Preparation and implementation of a framework for corporate and household debt restructuring:

Instead of yet another generalized debt forgiveness scheme, the FSTAL supported Ecuadorian
Authorities' efforts to implement an orderly restructuring of corporate debt while minimizing
publicly-financed subsidies. The key elements of this framework were the following: (i) streamlined
methods for loans under US$50,000, which accounted for 99 percent of borrowers as of January 2000 but
only 15 percent of non-performing loans; (ii) an incentive-compatible mechanism to encourage negotiated
resolution of non-performing loans above US$50,000. This mechanism required creditors to vote
collectively on creditor committees (and therefore to share information), whenever a single non-performing
borrower group had multiple creditors, and to weight loan loss provisions according to the system-wide
repayment record of the borrower group. Borrowers in turn were required to declare their global assets if
they wanted to participate in the restructuring and avoid the coactiva process, and were required to use
assets not just from the non-performing debtor company but from its entire corporate group to repay
overdue loans. The entire process of creditor committees and borrower-creditor negotiations for loan
repayments and restructuring was overseen by a debt restructuring unit (URC) financed by the FSTAL.
Finally, when debtors owing large debts to intervened banks suggested a generalized restructuring of all
debts above US$50,000 after August 2001, the FSTAL team played a critical role together with other IFIs
in supporting Government measures to avoid a costly generalized bailout and maintain payment discipline,
by promoting an amendment to the restructuring mechanism whereby an independent, specialized Unique
Representative was contracted with bilateral donor support to accelerate the restructuring process for
eligible large debtors and negotiate larger and more complex debts in a comprehensive way on behalf of
public banks.

The results achieved through this restructuring process were mixed, but represented an improvement
in Ecuador's credit culture. The initial universe of the debt restructuring unit (URC) work--as of
December 2000--stood at US$2.37 billion in bad debt (close to 20 percent of GDP at that time), half of
which was classified as E (i.e. past due loans classified as total write-offs, requiring full provisioning). Of
this, US$1.98 billion applied for restructuring before 23rd April 2001--the deadline set by Presidential
Decree 1168 prepared with FSTAL team support--and debtors owing US$1.46 billion presented the
required documents by June 2001 to proceed with negotiations towards loan restructuring, which ended in
December 2002. Close to 90 percent of these were bad debts with banks under public management (most
notably the two previously mentioned banks with 57 percent, and AGD banks with 17 percent). By
December 2002, around US$600 million had been restructured or repaid3 while more than US$800 million
had failed or not gone through the restructuring process. These results are comparable to similar financial
crisis experiences, such as in East Asia. Public banks were hampered in the negotiations by the inability to
offer new working capital loans to the debtors, and so the outcomes of restructuring negotiations were
slightly less favorable than for private banks, which negotiated somewhat higher interest rates and shorter
repayment terms. Overall, no loans were restructured beyond 12 years or for less than 70 percent of the
market reference lending rate. Moreover, efforts of the Unique Representative designated in mid-2002 led
to negotiation of 32 percent of the volume that went through the restructuring process, including all of the



                                                     - 10 -

larger and many of the more difficult loans.

SBS created a unit in 2003 to follow-up on the results of debt restructuring process to ensure
sustainability of the restructuring results. By June 2004, 15 percent of US$400 million in restructured
loans had been repaid and 6 percent of US$1.2 billion loans in the judicial process had been repaid.
However, close to 60 percent of the restructured loans have past-due amounts. These loans are being
collected by the respective banks, including AGD's closed banks. A potential deficiency of the
restructuring process is therefore that the public banks' restructured loans were not disposed of through
sales to private open banks or other potentially interested buyers. On the SBS side, efforts to follow up on
the restructuring results would have benefited from the proposed second loan amendment, as the monitoring
unit is under-funded and the FSTAL resources could have filled this gap in order to push for better asset
recovery by the publicly managed banks.

The corporate governance regulation planned under the FSTAL as part of debt restructuring work
was never undertaken. The main reason provided for this is the lack of interest of the Superintendency of
Companies and lack of direct SBS responsibility for this topic. On the other hand, the governance of
financial institutions was handled indirectly via the in-situ supervision manual. As indicated earlier, this
points to inadequate design for this activity.

3.(b) Elimination of legal obstacles for the productive sector:

SBS used the FSTAL to finance draft competition and bankruptcy/preventive recourse laws, but
these were never passed. In case of the competition law, a draft was produced in close cooperation with
the juridical department of SBS and was submitted to the Presidency of the Republic. Unfortunately,
another version of the law had been developed in parallel by a Congressional committee and was even
approved by Congress, but was thereafter vetoed by the Presidency. The competition law--which is
essential insofar as Ecuador stands out in South America in not having anti-monopoly legislation--is now
being reviewed as part of a Bank-supported programmatic loan, using the FSTAL draft as one of the
inputs. The FSTAL also supported a review of the Law of Preventive Recourse and Bankruptcy, however
two different drafts were respectively prepared by a local and an international consultant, and the juridical
department of SBS did not follow up on the two drafts, e.g. via a workshop, due to lack of participation
and ownership up-front in the process, unlike in the case of the competition law--they also regard the two
drafts as conflicting with each other as well as too technically dense and rigid. The need for reforms in
bankruptcy legislation remains, and IDB is currently picking up this issue again as part of a policy-based
loan.

3. (c) Development of a program for debt restructuring of SMEs:

This activity planned at project design was quickly eliminated given that the omnibus laws approved in
2000 made it redundant, as they provided for streamlined restructuring for loans below the US$50,000
cutoff. This small debtors resolution mechanism enacted in the omnibus laws of 2000 was designed with
the support of Bank FSTAL team members and IMF staff.

Free Bank technical assistance may have undermined disbursement of the FSTAL. The Bank's
Special Financial Operations (SFO) unit--established in 1998 to deal with banking crises in the wake of
the East Asian crisis but discontinued in 2001--had a large operating budget, which was used to finance
significant free TA by Bank experts and consultants, particularly in the corporate debt restructuring
component and in preparing AGD to work under the project and meet effectiveness conditions. This work
was seen as beneficial to the Borrower, but due to partial overlap of SFO support with planned FSTAL
activities, may in part have hindered the FSTAL's disbursement potential in the corporate debt
restructuring area, as there was no linkage or matching of free TA with loan disbursements.




                                                     - 11 -

Component 4: Assist BCE to manage and re-privatize the intervened bank under its management.

The outputs for this component are rated Unsatisfactory, as the activities foreseen in this component
were not undertaken under the project. The FSTAL was not used for contracting international
management for the BCE-controlled bank. Indeed the General Controller of the State ruled that the bidding
process for the international management, which had been virtually completed by AGD, would have to be
begun from scratch by BCE. The latter, in light of the urgency, opted to use its own resources to finance
the international management of the bank, and in October 2001 drew on the winning bidder in the
AGD-initiated procurement process. When BCE considered that international management had enhanced
the value of this bank sufficiently, it was ready to explore re-privatization. However, a Stand-By
Arrangement signed by the Government with the IMF in March 2003 set too short a horizon for bringing
this bank to point of sale to allow BCE to fulfill the Bank's procurement requirements and use FSTAL
resources. Thus BCE again used its own resources, and the revised component was never implemented
with FSTAL resources. As of November 2004, the re-privatization of this bank has yet to happen for
market reasons. While BCE made constructive proposals for alternative uses for part of the funds assigned
to it (US$1.6 million) the second loan amendment never took place. This is regrettable given that those
proposals were key components of BCE's action plan to implement the financial sector strengthening
strategy.

1. The Bank had provided significant support to the procurement process launched in 2000, including drafting of
TORs for the international administrators, and in October 2000 the Government sought expressions of interest,
however by May 2001 only one company was left as a valid candidate in the procurement process for the roughly
$1.3million activity. Although the process was suspended, this company was later hired by BCE with its own
funds to manage the second open bank..

2. CAMELS stands for risk-based ratings given to financial institutions by supervisors on the topics of "Capital,
Assets, Management, Earnings, Liabilities and Sensitivity". The rating indicates the level of intensity of oversight
needed, i.e. the riskier/weaker the institution, the higher the need for intensive supervision, prompt corrective
actions and eventually intervention.

3. Close to 30 percent of $180 million in payments received up-front were in Certificados de Depósitos
Reprogramados (CDRs), which are bonds issued by Government to depositors in exchange for their deposit claims
against intervened banks. The banks had to accept the CDRs from debtors at face value while they were being
negotiated at deep discount on the secondary market.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.

While the PAD mentioned the impact of AGD asset recovery to reduce the fiscal cost of the crisis as a
measure of project return, the potential return was not calculated at appraisal. As of project completion,
the FSTAL is believed to have: (a) contributed to an important but un-quantifiable increase in loan
recoveries compared to the counterfactual of no support for the URC or for the design of an
incentive-compatible debt restructuring mechanism. In particular, when proposals were floated in August
2001 for generalized loan restructuring of all non-performing loans above $50,000 at as little as 3 percent
over 15 years, one IMF estimate suggested that the fiscal cost of such largesse could have cost the
Government US$500 million in NPV. The FSTAL-supported mechanism and the FSTAL team members'
follow-up contributed in part, together with several other partners, to the Government's rejection of this
option, and thereby also improved incentives for loan repayment to private open banks, although this
benefit cannot be quantified; and (b) the Bank team believes there has been a similarly un-quantifiable but
positive benefit to the country arising from a significantly improved regulatory and supervisory framework,
as these are believed to lower the likelihood and/or severity of possible future financial sector crises, and (c)



                                                         - 12 -

the above two points are likely to have contributed to better credit practices and an improved credit culture
and lower risks, and therefore lower interest rates in the long-term. Therefore, notwithstanding the low
disbursements of only $1.6 million under the FSTAL, the Bank estimates that the net financial and
economic impact of the loan is substantially positive for the Borrower.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The overall institutional development impact of the project is deemed Modest

The project had no significant institutional development impact on AGD and BCE, given that no
proceeds were ever disbursed to support these institutions for direct institutional development. However, it
can be argued that an indirect benefit was provided (a) through SFO support provided to AGD in the
run-up to loan effectiveness on its organizational structure and business plan, and on plans for hiring
consultants; (b) the ongoing dialogue with these institutions as part of project implementation, e.g. on
payments systems with BCE; (c) through the support of the URC to AGD's loan recovery efforts; and (d)
through support for the development of the financial sector strategy, which assisted BCE's planning efforts.

The project had a substantial institutional development impact on SBS. SBS is still a relatively fragile
institution with an inadequate personnel skill mix, significant technological upgrading requirements and
insufficient legal support for its mandate. However, and by all accounts, SBS has come a long way since
1999 and the FSTAL has been instrumental in designing SBS on-site examination practices, many of its
regulations as well as the institution's ongoing relevance in the area of corporate debt restructuring, which
is cross-feeding into the supervisory process.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
One of the main impediments faced by Government was the Bank's procurement policy for large-value
consultant contracts, which inevitably implied delays and on various occasions made it impossible to use
FSTAL funds. There was also insufficient proactivity by the Bank's project team in restructuring the loan
during the first years of implementation and at times slow Bank no objection responses which delayed
work. Other challenges were the rapid worsening of the financial position of at least one of the two major
intervened banks in 2001, requiring changes in approaches; a challenging political environment and related
pressures; and a laborious judicial system that presented grave obstacles to loan collections.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Overall, there was uneven ownership from the Government for the most difficult yet important changes,
especially legal changes (such as new competition, bankruptcy and financial sector legislation), intervened
banks resolution and asset recovery. This is also shown by the lack of compliance with conditions initially
agreed for loan disbursement. Political factors may have contributed to the high level of turnover in key
officials in AGD management, and to a lesser extent in SBS management. AGD showed weak
implementation capacity and governance, was not able to share audited and complete accounting
information with the FSTAL team due to its asset management challenges, operated in a supervisory void,
and demonstrated no inclination to avail of FSTAL resources to achieve agreed project objectives during
more than half of the life of the project. The decision of the Controller General of the State to negate a
virtually completed procurement process for international management of a major intervened bank because
of a change in owners from AGD to BCE meant the Government could not use FSTAL funds for
management of said bank. The Government proved slow in processing key loan documents, including a



                                                     - 13 -

delay of four months from Board Approval in June 2000 for loan signing, notwithstanding the crisis
situation, seven months for signing the first loan amendment (August 2001 to March 2002), and of seven
months in clearing the second loan amendment for negotiation (September 2003 to April 2004). Finally,
there were shortcomings in coordination between key government entities (MEF, BCE and SBS), most
notably on reaching agreement for the second loan amendment, and especially on responsibility for
repaying the loan when it was broadly agreed that it was in the national and particular interest of the
various parties that the loan continue.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
During its implementation, the FSTAL was the only Bank-supported loan to be implemented by a PIU
integrated into a Government agency and staffed from it, as opposed to a team of consultants. The
experience was a positive one. Generally the project implementing unit (known as UEGI) showed great
dedication and performed according to the standards specified in Bank loan conditions, including in the
submission of semi-annual project reports. There were occasional delays in procurement and in the Project
Management Report (PMR) process, which the FSTAL was the first and only project to implement in
Ecuador and therefore involved a learning process.


5.4 Costs and financing:
Significant delays arose in the project's actual disbursements versus the planned schedule. The latter was
quite optimistic in the PAD and the PSRs displayed a lag in registering likely delays, so that estimates were
generally higher than actuals all through the life of the project. The main reasons for this are the same as
those that led to the failure of the project in achieving its Development Objective, i.e. repeated
postponements of activities by the government, at times long reaction time from the Bank, and a volatile
institutional and economic environment during the life of the project. The project closed having disbursed
only 16 percent of the total loan.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the sustainability of project outcomes is rated Likely for the amounts disbursed and activities
carried out as part of this project, i.e. under SBS institutional strengthening and corporate debt
restructuring components. For the activities never done and amounts never disbursed (eg: components for
AGD, BCE, audit of finance companies and corporate governance regulations) and the attempted but failed
second amendment, the sustainability rating would be "Not Applicable".

By all accounts, SBS in-situ supervision and risk-based regulations have come a long way since 1999.
FSTAL financed manuals are living documents, i.e. actively used and continuously adapted for added
regulations, tailored to specific categories of financial institutions--including new sections on public banks,
credit cooperatives, micro-credit institutions, etc. The main threats to sustainability of achievements come
from SBS's institutional weaknesses, inadequate legal protection for banking supervisors, and
shortcomings in institutional autonomy. This can make supervisors less able or willing to take tough
stances with non-compliant banks that enjoy strong political support. BCE and SBS have also continued to
draw on FSTAL-supported analytical work for developing a financial sector strategy.

It is Likely that the outputs of corporate and household debt restructuring would be sustained thanks to the
detailed and ongoing work by the SBS debt monitoring unit. As of June 2004, 40 percent of restructured
credits (originally classified as category E or total write-offs) were current, while the remainder were at
various levels of past due obligations.

The work done on drafting bankruptcy legislation is Not Likely to be sustained. The reforms drafted with


                                                       - 14 -

FSTAL support were largely modifications in existing Ecuadorian legislation, although at least one FSTAL
consultant had recommended a more fundamental reform, and IDB is now supporting the drafting of a
more fundamental reform to meet international standards.

Work done on the competition law might end up achieving some sustainability, since it is being used as an
input to work supported by a Bank-financed programmatic loan, whereby Government will submit a new
draft law to Congress.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As mentioned earlier, SBS has internalized the use of manuals and regulations and believes in the need to
update them regularly; SBS has also created a unit following up on the actual recovery rates on
restructured corporate and household loans; finally, the draft competition law is being used as an input to a
new Bank-supported programmatic lending operation in coordination with various public, private and
donor agencies to present an updated law for consideration by Congress. Nevertheless, it will be important
to continue drawing public attention and building support for essential reforms in the financial sector that
could not be completed under the FSTAL.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the identification, preparation assistance, and appraisal of the project is considered
Moderately Satisfactory. The project design responded to the CAS and Government priorities to resolve
the ongoing banking crisis and strengthen its key institutions. In the run-up to project effectiveness, the
project team provided extensive policy advice and support to the Ecuadorian Authorities dealing with crisis
resolution. Also, the experience of preparing the FSTAL in close coordination with other IFIs under the
framework of a joint policy matrix was widely perceived as very successful in conveying a consistent and
clear policy advice to the Authorities. The shortcomings were that the team underestimated the risks
stemming from the institutional and governance weaknesses of the main beneficiary agency, AGD, and
overestimated the mitigation role that intensive supervision could play in reducing risks. Moreover, between
project design and loan effectiveness, intensive donor TA and rapidly changing circumstances had removed
the need for a few planned areas of support.


7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is considered overall Moderately Satisfactory. The project team had very frequent visits
to the field related to FSTAL and SAL supervision, and constant contact with the Borrower, implementing
agencies and partner IFIs, as well as field-based support out of the World Bank Office in Quito. These
helped provide the Ecuadorian Authorities with high quality technical advice, particularly on liquidity
management, legal and regulatory reform, corporate debt restructuring, and development of a strategy for
the financial sector. The project team also put in an exceptional amount of effort to design a substantial
and comprehensive second amendment to the loan jointly with the Authorities. Unfortunately these efforts
were unsuccessful in the end as the government agencies could not reach a consensus on who should bear
the loan repayment.

The shortcomings were in the speed of procurement processes, including no objections, and in the timing of
efforts to restructure the loan or downgrade it in Project Status Reports (PSRs). The PSRs were updated
regularly though it was not until a regional portfolio review in 2003 that the project Implementation
Performance was downgraded to Unsatisfactory due to low disbursements. While it was clear relatively
early on in project implementation that a large part of the project would not be used as planned for AGD
and BCE activities, the project team chose to give more time to Ecuadorian Authorities to propose



                                                     - 15 -

alternative uses for the funds, rather than cut back on the loan. Moreover, the Mid-Term Review, which
should have taken place by June 2002, was delayed by one year due in part to delays in decisions about the
transition in Bank project management, and much more importantly, to the election cycle in Ecuador, and
the expectation that BCE and AGD components could move forward more rapidly with the new
Administration.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is considered Moderately Satisfactory. The ongoing technical dialogue
between the project team and the government counterparts as well as other IFIs throughout project
preparation and supervision helped achieve certain successful outputs during project implementation, and
to keep critical processes on track, notably in strengthening banking supervision and in corporate debt
restructuring. However, the FSTAL proved to be a rather slow response tool when it comes to
strengthening institutions that are evolving in a financial crisis environment, which has been a generic
challenge for TALs under these circumstances.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance in the project preparation is considered Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project
as designed was adequately addressing major institutional and regulatory weaknesses that were essential to
address in the resolution of Ecuador's severe banking crisis; on the other hand, it is not clear that the
project enjoyed the level of ownership by key agencies, notably AGD, that would be required for a project
of this importance.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance in the implementation of the project is considered Unsatisfactory.

The main reasons for this rating are:

·        Delays in enacting some of the key loan disbursement covenants.
·        Lack of implementation on the AGD/BCE components, representing 63 percent of the project.
·        Slow response process creating bottlenecks: in adopting the first amendment, in confirming lack of
interest in using FSTAL proceeds, in reviewing second project restructuring proposal.
·        Failure to follow up on key legislation drafted by project consultants (bankruptcy/preventive
recourse, competition), through e.g. workshops, dialogue and presentation to Congress.
·        An unrealistically low budget ceiling for disbursements for the FSTAL in FY04, impeding work
under already advanced procurement processes, thus wasting administrative resources.
Shortcomings in coordination between government agencies in the preparation and review of the second
project amendment, leading to the loss of almost one year of intensive effort by government's teams (BCE,
SBS, and MEF), and failure to reach an agreement on the extension of the project, which would have
provided much needed support for BCE and SBS within the framework of the Government's Financial
Sector Strengthening Strategy.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the Implementing Agency is considered Satisfactory. Overall, the team did a fair job in
coordinating, following up with the various SBS departments, AGD and BCE on their respective areas.
They reported in a prompt and detailed manner on project progress. The main weakness of UEGI was its
lack of leverage when partner agencies decided not to cooperate.




                                                      - 16 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is considered Unsatisfactory. Overall, the government has been unable
and/or unwilling to tap into the support provided by the FSTAL to make substantial institutional
strengthening changes, some of which continue to be essential for the soundness and efficiency of their
financial system.


8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons from the FSTAL warrant consideration:

·        Client ownership and the Government's political will in implementing a program like the FSTAL
are critical.
·        The Bank should have flagged risks more realistically at the outset, and focused more on risk
mitigation mechanisms.
·        In a difficult political environment, a TAL on its own does not offer enough monetary leverage or
political cover to encourage tough legal reforms or institutional changes. Thus the parallel SAL could have
been used more effectively to mitigate risks for the FSTAL, particularly in relation to the governance of
AGD. And yet, reliance on parallel budgetary support loans in crisis period can lead to unexpected risks,
namely that conditions (including those agreed with partner IFIs) may be waived, with an impact on the
TAL.
·        While not a guarantee of total success, it helped that multilateral donors maintained on-going
coordination and consulted each other in developing a unified framework for financial crisis resolution with
Government, within which the FSTAL contributed positively.
·        Project management has to be highly proactive when the environment is changing quickly.
·        An emergency TAL should have as much flexibility as possible in terms of redefining or changing
the tasks and even the counterpart agencies if necessary within the government, as well as in accelerating
procurement procedures.
·        Local project supervision, while very helpful in cases like these, needs to be complete, i.e. involve
close procurement support as well as specific (in this case financial) sector skills.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Señor
Eduardo Somensatto
GERENTE DEL BANCO MUNDIAL EN ECUADOR
Ciudad.

De mi consideración:

Me refiero a su oficio No. BIRF-EC-189-04 de 28 de octubre de 2004 mediante el cual solicita la
presentación de un informe de evaluación final del Convenio de Préstamo de Asistencia Técnica al Sector
Financiero No. IBRD-4567-EC.

Sobre el particular, me es grato presentar a usted el siguiente informe elaborado sobre la base del
documento preparado por la Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros:

I.       ANTECEDENTES

Como consecuencia de la crisis financiera que atravesó el Ecuador entre 1998 y 1999, el Gobierno


                                                     - 17 -

Nacional, conjuntamente con los Organismos Multilaterales de Crédito (Banco Mundial, Banco
Interamericano de Desarrollo, Corporación Andina de Fomento y Fondo Monetario Internacional),
emprendió un plan de fortalecimiento del sistema financiero. Así, el 26 de octubre del año 2000, se
suscribió con el Banco Mundial el Convenio de Crédito No. 4567 EC por un valor de US$ 10'000.000,oo
denominado "Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica para el Sector Financiero".

El Proyecto original tuvo los siguientes componentes:

PARTE A "Fortalecimiento de la AGD".
PARTE B "Fortalecimiento de la Supervisión Bancaria".
PARTE C "Reestructuración de Deuda Corporativa y de Hogares".
PARTE D "Gerencia del Proyecto".

En el mes de marzo del año 2002, se suscribió una enmienda al Convenio, que incorporó al Banco Central
del Ecuador a través del componente E "Apoyo al Banco Central" para desarrollar el proyecto sobre los
bancos abiertos administrados por esa entidad.

En el mes de mayo del mismo año, la Agencia de Garantía de Depósitos resolvió no utilizar los recursos del
referido préstamo, por lo que el Banco Mundial solicitó a la Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros y al
Banco Central del Ecuador propongan actividades que las dos instituciones consideren necesarias para ser
financiadas con los fondos no utilizados por la AGD.

En septiembre del año 2003, la Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros solicitó al Ministerio de Economía y
Finanzas la presentación al Banco Mundial de una segunda enmienda al Convenio a fin de incorporar
nuevos proyectos que serían ejecutados por el Banco Central del Ecuador y por la propia Superintendencia,
por un monto total de US$ 5'120.000,oo. Solicitó además la cancelación de US$ 1'800.000,oo del crédito
que sería el saldo no utilizable luego de aprobarse la modificación planteada, así como la ampliación del
plazo de ejecución hasta el 31 de diciembre del año 2005. Inmediatamente, este Ministerio solicitó al Banco
Mundial incorporar al Convenio la petición de la Superintendencia y remitir la modificación del Convenio
de Crédito IBRD-4567-EC para el trámite correspondiente.

Al respecto, en el mes de abril del presente año, el Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas comunicó a la
Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros que una vez aprobada la segunda enmienda, el monto de los
recursos que recibirá por concepto de este crédito para la ejecución de las actividades a su cargo, deberá
ser restituido al Estado Ecuatoriano, planteamiento que no fue aceptado por el organismo de control en
atención a los términos estipulados en el Convenio de Crédito citado.

Finalmente, al no prosperar la negociación de la segunda enmienda, el 30 de junio de 2004 se cerró el
Convenio.

II.      COMPONENTES Y PROYECTOS POR ENTIDAD EJECUTORA

PARTE A "Fortalecimiento de la AGD"

1.       Preparación de una estrategia para ligar los programas del Prestatario para la reestructuración de
la deuda corporativa y de hogares, recuperación de la banca y administración de activos al amparo de un
marco referencial que promueva la resolución rápida y eficiente de la crisis bancaria.

2.       Preparación de una propuesta legislativa para reformar la Ley de Reordenamiento en Materia


                                                    - 18 -

Económica, en el área tributario ­ financiera y sus regulaciones de implementación.

3.      Llevar a cabo un estudio para identificar y superar los obstáculos legales, regulatorios y judiciales
para la venta rápida de los activos manejados por la AGD.

4.      Desarrollar un plan de negocios para manejar y vender rápidamente los activos manejados por la
AGD sobre la base de precios referenciales y de mercado.

5.      Provisión de asistencia técnica para el ejercicio de debida diligencia precedente a la venta de: (a) la
cartera de crédito incluida en los activos manejados por la AGD que están compuestos de activos
individuales por un monto superior a US$ 500.000; y (b) la cartera de crédito incluida en los activos
manejados por la AGD.

     Al respecto, el 22 de mayo de 2001 el Banco Mundial otorgó la no objeción a la evaluación combinada
     de los aspectos técnicos y financieros de las propuestas presentadas por las firmas: Asociación KPMG
     ­ Arden Price Consulting (Valoración de cartera) y Arthur Andersen (Venta de Cartera). Este proceso
     no concluyó por falta de definición de la AGD.

6.      Fortalecimiento de la AGD a través del desarrollo de una nueva estructura, organización; la
provisión de capacitación para su personal; y, la provisión de servicios de consultoría para apoyar a la
AGD en su plan de negocios.

     Mediante Resolución No. AGD-00-007 de 16 de febrero de 2000 la Agencia de Garantía de Depósitos
     expidió su Manual Orgánico Funcional.

7.      Mejoría de la infraestructura tecnológica de información de la AGD.

8.      Provisión de servicios de consultoría para asistir a la AGD en el manejo eficiente de los bancos
abiertos al amparo de su control.

     El 23 de mayo de 2001 el Banco Mundial otorgó la no objeción a fin de proceder a la negociación con
     la firma Interdin & Ahead/Hay Group para la administración de Filanbanco; sin embargo, por
     decisión gubernamental, el Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas comunicó al BIRF que no se utilizarían
     estos recursos para ese banco, y que en su lugar se requeriría la no objeción para que la firma Interdin
     pase a administrar el Banco del Pacífico, situación que fue aceptada. Una vez incorporado el Banco
     Central como entidad beneficiaria, a partir de la primera enmienda tuvo la responsabilidad de ejecutar
     esta actividad.

9.      Provisión de servicios de consultoría legal y financiera para asistir a la AGD en el proceso de
reprivatización de los bancos al amparo de su administración.

     La AGD, en coordinación con la Unidad de Ejecución y Gestión Institucional, UEGI, invitó a firmas
     de reconocido prestigio a nivel internacional a que presenten sus expresiones de interés para la
     ejecución de esta actividad. La UEGI preparó para discusión y aprobación de la AGD, una primera
     versión de los Términos de Referencia y del Pedido de Propuestas para la contratación de firmas
     internacionales. Una vez incorporado el Banco Central como ejecutor de la parte E del Apéndice 2 del
     Convenio, asumió la responsabilidad de ejecutar esta actividad.




                                                    - 19 -

PARTE B "Fortalecimiento de la Supervisión Bancaria"

10.      Provisión de asistencia técnica a la Superintendencia de Bancos para la reforma de las leyes del
sector financiero.

     Se acordó conjuntamente con el Gerente del Proyecto FSTAL 4567-EC que, como paso previo a la
     elaboración de los proyectos de reforma a la Ley General de Instituciones del Sistema Financiero y a
     la Ley de Reordenamiento en Materia Económica, en el Area Tributario ­ Financiera, debía definirse
     la nueva estructura y arquitectura del sistema financiero.

     En este sentido, se contrató al consultor internacional Martín Naranjo para desarrollar la propuesta de
     nueva Estructura Financiera del Ecuador, así como al consultor Egidio Luis Miotti para que revise la
     propuesta de nueva Arquitectura Financiera del Ecuador preparada por el Banco Central del Ecuador.
     Los informes entregados sirvieron de base en la definición de la Estrategia y Plan de Acción para el
     fortalecimiento del Sector Financiero del Ecuador.

     Es importante señalar que, como parte de los proyectos a ser ejecutados al amparo de la segunda
     enmienda del Convenio, estaba contemplada la ejecución del proyecto de Reforma al Marco Legal, con
     las siguientes actividades: A) Formulación y diseño del proyecto de una nueva Ley para el Sistema
     Financiero y de su Reglamento, reformas a leyes conexas; y, propuestas de normativa; B) Difusión y
     capacitación sobre la nueva normativa, al personal de las instituciones públicas involucradas y del
     sistema financiero ecuatoriano; C) Revisión de la propuesta de Ley de Bancarrota y Quiebra; y, D)
     Formulación y diseño del proyecto de Ley para prevención del lavado de dinero, medidas contra el
     financiamiento del terrorismo, reforma a leyes conexas; y, propuestas de normativa.

11.      Revisión y mejoría de los manuales existentes para: (i) Supervisión in situ de los bancos; (ii)
Procedimientos para auditorías de control internas y externas; (iii) Auditorías de sistemas de información;
y, (iv) Evaluación del riesgo de mercado y provisión de capacitación para la aplicación de los manuales.

     El 28 de mayo de 2001 se suscribió un contrato entre la Superintendencia de Bancos y la compañía
     Deloitte & Touche del Ecuador Cía. Ltda. para la ejecución del proyecto de Fortalecimiento del
     Proceso de Supervisión In Situ, cuyo informe final fue entregado en el mes de marzo de 2002.

12.      Contratación de auditorías externas para instituciones financieras.

     La negociación de los contratos finalizó en el mes de noviembre de 2003. Sin embargo no pudo
     concluirse el proceso precontractual debido a la falta de asignación de recursos en el Presupuesto
     General del Estado.

PARTE C "Reestructuración de Deuda Corporativa y de Hogares"

13.      Desarrollo de una estrategia comprensiva para facilitar la reestructuración de las deudas
corporativas y de hogares (Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros).

     El 31 de diciembre de 2002 culminó el trabajo de la Unidad de Reestructuración de Créditos, URC,
     creada mediante Decreto Ejecutivo No. 1168 (Registro Oficial No. 257 de 1 de febrero de 2001). Con
     la culminación de labores de esa unidad concluyó también la tarea de la firma Chemonics Inc., la
     misma que, con el apoyo de la USAID contrató al Representante Único. La acción de la Unidad de
     Reestructuración de Créditos se centró en la resolución de 1351 casos por 1.457,6 mil millones de


                                                    - 20 -

    dólares (Tomado del Informe Final de la Unidad de Reestructuración de Créditos presentado el 17 de enero de 2003).

14.     Preparación de un estudio para identificar y superar los obstáculos legales y regulatorios para la
rápida reestructuración de la deuda corporativa (Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros).

    En este proyecto, conjuntamente con el Banco Mundial, se determinó la necesidad de elaborar leyes de
    competencia y de quiebras, así como reformar la Ley de Concurso Preventivo y otras leyes
    relacionadas con la reestructuración de deudas. Al respecto, se destaca lo siguiente:

    Proyecto de Ley de Competencia: El Congreso Nacional discutió y aprobó un proyecto de "Ley de
    Promoción y Defensa de la Competencia Económica". Sin embargo, mediante oficio No.
    T.1913-DAJ-2002-6484 de 13 de noviembre de 2002 el Presidente de la República vetó totalmente el
    proyecto.

    Proyecto de Ley de Quiebras y Concurso Preventivo: Se elaboraron los dos proyectos de leyes, los
    mismos que deben ser analizados en el marco de la Cooperación Técnica No Reembolsable No.
    ATN/SF-8593-EC del BID.

15.     Establecimiento de un marco de referencia comprensiva para la reestructuración de deudas de
pequeñas y medianas empresas (Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros).

PARTE D "Gerencia del Proyecto"

16.     Capacitación de funcionarios de la Unidad Ejecutora en auditorías, adquisiciones, gerencia
financiera y otros aspectos de la implementación del Proyecto (Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros).

    Informes de Administración del Proyecto: Se prepararon los Informes de Administración del Proyecto
    en forma trimestral y fueron remitidos al Banco Mundial, obteniéndose las correspondientes
    aprobaciones.

    Auditoría Externa independiente del Proyecto: El 6 de junio de 2001 se suscribió el contrato para la
    prestación de servicios de auditoría independiente con la firma Núñez Serrano & Asociados Cía. Ltda.

    Estados financieros auditados del Proyecto: Se cuenta con estados financieros y los correspondientes
    informes de auditoría externa por los períodos terminados al 30 de junio de 2001, 31 de diciembre de
    2001, 31 de diciembre de 2002 y 31 de diciembre de 2003, debidamente aprobados por el Banco
    Mundial y enviados además a la Contraloría General del Estado.

    Capacitación de los funcionarios de la Unidad Ejecutora: Se capacitó a los funcionarios de la Unidad
    de Ejecución y Gestión Institucional.

PARTE E "Apoyo al Banco Central"

17.     Provisión de servicios de consultoría para asistir al Banco Central en el manejo eficiente de los
bancos abiertos bajo su administración.

    Las acciones relacionadas con la ejecución de esta actividad constan en el proyecto No. 8.

18.     Provisión de servicios de consultoría legal y financiera para asistir al Banco Central en el proceso


                                                      - 21 -

de reprivatización de los bancos abiertos bajo su administración.

     Las acciones relacionadas con la ejecución de esta actividad constan en el proyecto No. 9.

III.     RESULTADOS Y EVALUACION DEL CONVENIO

Los recursos asignados se utilizaron de acuerdo al siguiente detalle:

                     COMPONENTE                               VALOR           VALOR        GRADO DE
                                                            ASIGNADO      EJECUTADO UTILIZACION
 PARTE A: Fortalecimiento de la AGD                       2'786.000,oo    0,oo                 0%
PARTE B: Fortalecimiento de la SBS                        1'600.000,oo    986.128,oo          62%
PARTE C: Reestructura del Sector Productivo               1'400.000,oo    419.456,oo          30%
PARTE D: Coordinación y Administración del Proyecto       100.000,oo      56.289,oo           56%
PARTE E: Asistencia al Banco Central del Ecuador          3'514.000,oo    0,oo                 0%
Front end fee                                             100.000,oo      100.000,oo          100%
Contingencias                                             500.000,oo      36.624,oo            7%
 TOTAL                                                    10'000.000,oo   1'598.497,oo        16%


IV.      SOSTENIBILIDAD DE RESULTADOS

·        El Manual de Supervisión In Situ elaborado por la firma Deloitte & Touche está siendo aplicado
por los equipos de auditoría de la Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros en la supervisión de las
instituciones financieras.

·        Con el propósito de dar seguimiento a los convenios de reestructuración y propiciar la recuperación
de los créditos sometidos a procesos de coactiva, se ha conformado dentro de la Superintendencia de
Bancos y Seguros una unidad administrativa que tiene a su cargo tal responsabilidad.

·        Respecto al proyecto de Ley de Quiebras, la República del Ecuador y el BID suscribieron el
Convenio de Cooperación Técnica No Reembolsable No. ATN/SF-8593-EC. Desarrollo de un Programa
de Mejoramiento de la Competitividad, dentro del cual se tiene previsto desarrollar el componente "Acceso
a Financiamiento", que en su literal B) "Entorno de Negocio", establece la necesidad de expedir leyes que
establezcan un marco legal moderno y eficiente para tratar empresas en quiebra (Ley de Quiebras) y
perfeccionar los registros de propiedad para facilitar el uso y ejecución de las garantías muebles e
inmuebles (Ley de Garantías Reales).

V.       EVALUACION DEL DESEMPEÑO DE LA UNIDAD DE EJECUCION Y GESTION
INSTITUCIONAL, UEGI, DURANTE EL DESARROLLO E IMPLEMENTACION

§        El manejo de los recursos financieros asignados no ha tenido ninguna observación en los informes
de auditoría externa que cuentan con la aprobación del Banco Mundial.

§        Los procesos de selección y contratación de firmas consultoras y expertos individuales se han
realizado a base de los requerimientos del Banco Mundial, según se manifiesta en la Minuta de la Misión
de Medio Término que tuvo lugar del 5 al 8 de mayo de 2003 y se ratifica en los informes de auditoría
externa emitidos por la firma Núñez Serrano & Asociados Cía. Ltda.

§        Durante el desarrollo del proyecto, la Unidad de Ejecución y Gestión Institucional mantuvo una



                                                    - 22 -

constante coordinación con las instituciones directamente involucradas en el desarrollo del Proyecto como
son: Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, Agencia de Garantía de Depósitos, Banco Central del Ecuador y
Banco Mundial.

§        La Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros realizó importantes gestiones y acciones orientadas a la
consecución de la segunda enmienda al Convenio de Crédito IBRD 4567-EC.

VI.      CONCLUSIONES

§        La ejecución del Proyecto por parte de varias instituciones se vio afectada en la medida que existen
actividades que son de particular interés para una u otra institución.

§        Los excesivos trámites y tiempos de espera, tanto a nivel nacional como con el propio Banco
Mundial dilataron la ejecución de los procesos.

§        Las medidas adoptadas por los responsables de la política económica del país, en el sentido que las
instituciones ejecutoras asuman el servicio de la deuda con recursos propios, afectaron las negociaciones
orientadas a la consecución de la segunda enmienda del Convenio y por tanto a la ejecución completa del
Proyecto.

§        El Banco Mundial colaboró en la ejecución de este Proyecto. No obstante, consideramos que una
participación más activa hubiese permitido encontrar los mecanismos para concretar la segunda enmienda y
con ello la ejecución de nuevos proyectos orientados al fortalecimiento del sistema financiero ecuatoriano.

En resumen, los resultados de la ejecución del Convenio de Crédito IBRD-4567-EC debe servirnos como
experiencia, tanto para el Gobierno Nacional como para el Banco Mundial, para optimizar la cooperación
internacional y lograr los objetivos propuestos.

VII.     RECOMNEDACIÓN

Se requiere sensibilizar al público sobre la relevancia de ejecutar las actividades propuestas en la segunda
enmienda, para dotar al sistema financiero de las medidas y precauciones necesarias que permitan
reforzarlo y que garantice su función de intermediario entre el ahorro y la inversión.

Atentamente,
POR EL MINISTRO DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS

Ing. Vicente C. Páez
SUBSECRETARIO GENERAL DE COORDINACION

c.c. Superintendencia de Bancos y Seguros
     Banco Central del Ecuador


(b) Cofinanciers:
The partner IFIs (IMF, IDB and CAF) praised the quality of coordination from the FSTAL team as each
entity proceeded with the implementation of their crisis resolution actions which had cross-references or
impacts on the same issues as the FSTAL:

·        The IMF notes that the continuous dialogue across donors helped support crisis resolution actions



                                                    - 23 -

more effectively and were helpful for the Fund's emergency programs for Ecuador. IMF staff believe the
Bank was an excellent partner in this crisis resolution program. As stated before, the FSTAL objectives
were fully in line with IMF's policy matrix and FSTAL team worked closely with IMF staff.
·        IDB staff praised the quality of cooperation between their efforts and those of the FSTAL in the
areas of on-site and off-site supervision. There was good coordination in both the design and execution of
the TA programs, where the IDB focused on extra-situ and the World Bank on in-situ supervision. Both
activities were carried out by the same consulting company, which helped further in achieving a smooth
integration of products. The IDB believes that the capacities of the SBS improved significantly in both
areas.
·        CAF reinforced the message that the joint effort made by the IFIs in supporting the Government
during the 1999 economic crisis was a fundamental factor in dealing with the delicate situation faced by the
country and initiating the economic recovery process. CAF also commented favorably on the UEGI's
performance, which was supported with CAF financing.
Overall, cooperation among the IFIs in this project and through the Ecuador crisis resolution process has
been very good. The design and implementation of the overall financial sector program have been truly an
integrated teamwork effort from the management and technical staff of the IFIs.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Improve authorities' capacity to manage     NR but PSR implies U                 U
the financial sector crisis:
-- Authorities capacity to effectively identify NR but PSR implies U                 U
and resolve non-viable banks.
-- Appropriate asset management and             NR but PSR implies U                 U
disposition; temporary administration and
eventual reprivatization of AGD/BCE
managed banks
-- Corporate and household debt                 NR but PSR implies S                 Moderately S
restructuring consistent with financial sector
recovery.
(ii) Strengthening of banking regulation and    NR but PSR implies S                 Moderately S
supervision:
-- Appropriate banking laws and regulations     NR but PSR implies Partially S       Partially S
issued and enforced
-- Eventual compliance consistent with Basle NR but PSR implies Partially S          Partially S
Core Principles.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Strengthening of Deposit Insurance          U                                    U
Agency:
-- Draft necessary legislation and prudential
regulations; asset recovery targets;
improvement of management of state-owned
banks; reprivatization of public banks; and
institutional strengthening of AGD


(ii) Strengthening of Superintendency of        S                                    Moderately S
Banks:
-- Draft necessary legislation & regulations.
Carry out consolidated supervision.
Supervision manuals completion and
progress in manuals' implementation
Progress in training of SB's examiners in the
area of in situ supervision
(iii) Corporate and household debt              S                                    Moderately S
restructuring:
-- Design and implement a program for
corporate and household debt restructuring.


(iv) Project Coordination Unit:                 S                                    S
  Effective management of the Technical
Assistance Loan Project
Management and Reprivatization of BCE           NR but PSR write-up implies U        Unsatisfactory
controled bank

1End of project




                                                                - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                Appraisal           Actual/Latest            Percentage of
                                                                                Estimate               Estimate                 Appraisal
                               Component                                      US$ million             US$ million
1 FORTALECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL DE LA                                                6.30                     0.00                         0
AGD
2 FORTALECIMIENTO DE LA                                                              1.60                     0.99                   61.88
SUPERINTENDENCIA DE BANCOS
3 REESTRUCTURA DEL SECTOR PRODUCTIVO                                                 1.40                     0.42                        30
4 ASISTENCIA AL BANCO CENTRAL DEL                                                    0.00                     0.00                         0
ECUADOR
5 COORDINACION Y ADMINISTRACION DEL                                                  1.34                     1.08                     80.6
PROYECTO
6 CONTIGENCIAS                                                                       0.50                     0.04                         8

Total Baseline Cost                                                                11.14                      2.53
   Physical Contingencies                                                                                                            22.71
                                  Total Project Costs                              11.14                      2.53
                                                      Front-end fee                  0.10                     0.10                  100.00
                        Total Financing Required                                   11.24                      2.63
1. Appraisal Estimate does not include $3 million component of IDB/CAF for SBS institutional strengthening, that were financed in parallel
but outside of the FSTAL itself.
2. Total Financing Required includes Local Counterpart resources for an amount of $1.24 millions.
3. With the amendment signed in March 2002, the amount assigned to each component were revised as follows:
Component 1: US$ 2.80 million
Component 2: US$ 1.60 million
Component 3: US$ 1.40 million
Component 4: US$ 3.50 million
Component 5: US$ 1.34 million
Component 6: US$ 0.50 million
Front end fee: US$ 0.10 million
Total Financing required: US$ 11.24 million



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                              1
                                                                Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category                      ICB                 NCB                          2             N.B.F.            Total Cost
                                                                                         Other
1. Works                                        0.00                0.00                  1.00                   0.00                1.00
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)                (1.00)                (0.00)               (1.00)
2. Goods                                        0.00                0.00                  0.00                   0.00                0.00
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)                (0.00)                (0.00)               (0.00)
3. Services                                     0.00                0.00                  1.30                   0.00                1.30
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)                (1.30)                (0.00)               (1.30)
4. Consultants                                  0.00                0.00                  7.50                   3.00               10.50
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)                (7.50)                (0.00)               (7.50)
5. Operating Costs (plus                        0.00                0.00                  1.20                   0.00                1.20
front-end-fee)                                 (0.00)              (0.00)                (0.10)                (0.00)               (0.10)
6. Front-end-fee                                0.00                0.00                  0.10                   0.00                0.10



                                                                - 26 -

                                                (0.00)                  (0.00)          (0.10)               (0.00)               (0.10)
       Total                                      0.00                   0.00            11.10                3.00                14.10
                                                (0.00)                  (0.00)          (10.00)              (0.00)              (10.00)
  * NBF = Not Bank Financed: includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants under trust funds, any
  reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items. The procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details of
  the items listed as NBF need to be explained in the footnotes to the table.
  ** IDB/CAF parallel funding for SBS strengthening.


  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                            1
                                                                    Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                       ICB                   NCB                   2            N.B.F.             Total Cost
                                                                                       Other
  1. Works                                        0.00                   0.00            0.00                0.00                 0.00
                                                (0.00)                  (0.00)          (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)
  2. Goods                                        0.00                   0.00            0.00                0.00                 0.00
                                                (0.00)                  (0.00)          (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)
  3. Services                                     0.00                   0.00            1.48                1.05                 2.53
                                                (0.00)                  (0.00)          (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)
  4. Consultants                                  0.00                   0.00            0.00                0.00                 0.00
                                                (0.00)                  (0.00)          (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)
  5. Operating Costs (plus                        0.00                   0.00            0.10                0.00                 0.10
  front-end-fee)                                (0.00)                  (0.00)          (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)
  6. Front-end-fee                                0.00                   0.00            0.00                0.00                 0.00
                                                (0.00)                  (0.00)          (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)
       Total                                      0.00                   0.00            1.58                1.05                 2.63
                                                (0.00)                  (0.00)          (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                    Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                       Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   Bank           Govt.          CoF.         Bank         Govt.         CoF.         Bank      Govt.   CoF.
1 FORTALECIMIENTO                  6.30                           6.30                                                  0.0             0.0
INSTITUCIONAL DE LA
AGD
2 FORTALECIMIENTO                  1.60                           1.60        0.99                       0.99          61.9             61.9
DE LA
SUPERINTENDENCIA
DE BANCOS
3 REESTRUCTURA DEL                 1.40                           1.40        0.42                       0.42          30.0             30.0
SECTOR PRODUCTIVO
4 ASISTENCIA AL
BANCO CENTRAL DEL
ECUADOR
5 COORDINACION Y                   0.10            1.24           1.34        0.03         1.05          1.08          30.0      84.7   80.6




                                                                    - 27 -

ADMINISTRACION DEL
PROYECTO
6 CONTIGENCIAS      0.50           0.50     0.04          0.04  8.0         8.0
7 FRONT END FEE     0.10           0.10     0.10          0.10  100.0      100.0
TOTAL               10.00   1.24  11.24     1.58   1.05   2.63  15.8  84.7 23.4




                                    - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

As was mentioned in section 4.3, no potential return was explicitly calculated for the loan at appraisal,
however the loan is believed to have had for the client a positive but un-quantifiable impact in terms of:

1.       An important but un-quantifiable increase in loan recoveries compared to the counterfactual of no
support for the URC or for the design of an incentive-compatible debt restructuring mechanism. In
particular, when proposals were floated in August 2001 for generalized loan restructuring of all
non-performing loans above $50,000 at as little as 3 percent over 15 years, one IMF estimate suggested
that the fiscal cost of such largesse could have cost the Government US$500 million in NPV. The
FSTAL-supported mechanism and the FSTAL team members' follow-up contributed in part, together with
several other partners, to the Government's rejection of this option, and thereby also improved incentives
for loan repayment to private open banks, although this benefit cannot be quantified;
2.       A similarly un-quantifiable but positive benefit to the country arising from a significantly improved
regulatory and supervisory framework, as these are believed to lower the likelihood and/or severity of
possible future financial sector crises;
3.       Better credit practices and an improved credit culture and lower risks, and therefore lower interest
rates in the long-term.




                                                     - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              November 1999           12     Mission co-leaders (2); Sector
                                             Leader (1); Team Assistant (1);
                                             Economist (1); Banking
                                             specialists (3); Private Sector
                                             Development Specialist
                                             (Corporate Restructuring and
                                             Governance Group (1);
                                             Knowledge Management Officer
                                             (1); Financial Economist (1);
                                             External Consultant (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              December 1999           13     Task Managers (2);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Economist (1); Lead
                                             Economist (2); Financial
                                             Sector Specialist (3);
                                             Research Analyst (1);
                                             Banking Specialist (2);
                                             Regional Financial Services
                                             Advisor (1)
              January 2000              3    Task Manager (1); Financial
                                             Economist (1); Principal
                                             Financial Sector Specialist (1)
              May 2000                  2    Task Manager (1); Lead
                                             Economist (1)
              June 2000                 3    Task Manager (1); Lead
                                             Economist (1); Private Sector
                                             Development Specialist (1)

 Supervision
              October 2000              3    Task Manager (1); Bank                S               S
                                             Restructuring Specialist (1),
                                             Advisor (1)
              November 2000             4    Task Manager (1); Bank                S               S
                                             Restructuring Specialist (1);
                                             Banking Supervision Specialist
                                             (1); Corporate Debt
                                             Restructuring Specialist (1)
              February 2001             1    Task Manager (1)                      S               S
              June 2001                 4    Task Manager (1); Bank                S               S
                                             Restructuring Specialist (1);
                                             Banking Specialist (1); Debt
                                             Rest. Legal ASP. (1)
              November 2001             1    Task Manager (1)                      S               S
              December 2001             2    Task Manager (1), Senior              S               S



                                              - 30 -

                                                   Financial Specialist (1)
               May 2002                        3   Task Manager (1); Sr. Financial         S               S
                                                   Specialist (1); Financial
                                                   Economist (1)
               December 2002                   2   Task Managers (2 - transition)          S               S
               May 2003 - MTR                  6   Task Manager (1); Banking               S               S
                                                   Supervisor (2); Payments System
                                                   Specialist (1); Procurement
                                                   Specialist (1); Financial
                                                   Management Specialist (1)
               May 2003                        4   Task Manager (1); Advisor (2);          S               S
                                                   Sr. Financial Economist (1)
               January 2004                    3   Banking Supervisor (2);                 U               U
                                                   Payments System Specialist (1)
               April 2004                      3   Task Manager (1); Banking               U               U
                                                   Supervisor (1); Microfinance
                                                   Specialist (1)

 ICR
               October 2004                   2     Task Manager (1);                      U               U
                                                    Financial Specialist (1)


In addition to the above missions, there were various missions by the intitial TTL (in his quality of program
manager Special Financial Operations Unit), Lead Private Sector Specialist for corporate restructuring
component and continuous field supervision from the second TM, based in Ecuador, starting December
2002.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    34.0                       223,300.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        38.88                       145,541.02
  Supervision                                  52.58                       224,125.96
  ICR                                           3.79                        11,103.87
  Total                                      129.25                        604,070.85
FSTAL time dedicated by staff is undersestimated due to indirect support for FSTAL acitivities financed
under SFO and the SAL of IBRD.




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. FSTAL PAD
2. URC final report
3. Subgerencia de seguimientos' report, as of June 2004
4. UEGI report
5. IFI matrix policy
6. SAL MOP
7. SAL ICR
8. 12 PSRs
9. "Banking Currency and Debt Meltdown: Ecuador Crisis in the late 90s" by Augusto de la
Torre, Roberto Garcia-Saltos and Yira Mascaro
10. FSTAL Loan Agreement
11. Amendment to Loan Agreement sent August 2001 and signed March 2002
12. Draft second Amendment to Loan Agreement
13. "Estrategia y Plan de Acción Para el Fortalecimiento del Sector Financiero del Ecuador"
March 2003
14. Miscellaneous correspondence and documents in FSTAL project files
15. BTOR ICR October 2004




                                               - 34 -

- 35 -

