Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4567-EC
Loan Agreement
(Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 26, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4567-EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 26, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 to read as 
follows:
“If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full 
amount then due and payable 
to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank 
shall have the right to allocate and apply the 
amount so 
received in any manner and for such purposes under the Loan Agreement as 
the Bank 
shall in its sole discretion determine.”
(b)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as follows:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its 
cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Loan.”
(c)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AGD” means “Agencia de Garantía de Depósitos, the 
Borrower’s public’s deposit insurance agency, established pursuant to the 
Financial Management Law;
(b)
“AGD Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and AGD pursuant to Section 3.01(a) 
(ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time and 
such term includes all schedules to the AGD Implementation Agreement; 
(c)
“AGD’s Managed Assets” means the assets of the closed banks, 
managed by AGD;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), and (3), 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  3
(f)
“Financial Institutions Law” means “Ley General de 
Instituciones del Sistema Financiero”, published in the Official Gazette 
(as defined hereinafter) on May 12, 1994 and its subsequent reforms;
(g)
“Financial Management Law” means “Ley de Reordenamiento en 
Materia Económica, Tributaria y Financiera”, the Borrower’s law for 
economic, tax and financial restructuring,  published in the Official 
Gazette (as defined hereinafter) on December 1, 1998 and its subsequent 
reforms;
(h)
“Implementation Agreements” means collectively the 
Superintendency Implementation Agreement and the AGD Implementation 
Agreement;
(i)
“Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter 
from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith;
(j)
“Official Gazette” means “Registro Oficial”, the Borrower’s 
official gazette;
(k)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(m)
“Superintendency” means “Superintendencia de Bancos”, the 
Borrower’s superintendency of banks regulated by the Financial 
Institutions Law;
(n)
“Superintendency Implementation Agreement” means the 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Superintendency 
pursuant to Section 3.01(b) (i) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time and such term includes all schedules to the 
Superintendency Implementation Agreement; and
(o)
“UEGI” means “Unidad de Ejecución y Gestión Institucional” 
the unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to ten million Dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after 
Page  4
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
Page  5
semiannually in arrears on January
15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall: 
(i)
cause the Superintendency, pursuant to the 
Superintendency Implementation 
Agreement, to carry 
out Parts B, C and D of the Project; and
(ii)
cause AGD, pursuant to the AGD Implementation 
Agreement, to carry out Part A, 
C and D of the Project; 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, financial, and administrative practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with:
(i)
the Superintendency, setting forth their respective 
responsibilities in the 
implementation of Parts B, C and 
D of the Project (the Superintendency 
Implementation Agreement); and
(ii)
AGD, setting forth their respective responsibilities 
in the implementation of 
Part A, C and D of the Project 
(the AGD Implementation Agreement);
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the 
Implementation  Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreements, or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation of the provisions of Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
cause AGD and the Superintendency to establish and 
thereafter maintain, during the execution of the Project, a Project unit 
in charge of Project coordination (the UEGI),
with structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
ensure that UEGI is (i) headed at all times during the 
Page  6
execution of the Project by a full time project manager, a financial 
manager and a procurement specialist, all with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) further staffed by key 
personnel, with functions, responsibilities, qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the Superintendency and AGD 
to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
performance Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about March 31 and September 30 each year, 
commencing September 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) 
of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date;
(c)
review with the Bank by January 31 each year, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section; and 
(d)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said reviews and 
the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its 
comments, by no later than June 30, 2001, the legislative proposals 
prepared under Part A.2 and Part B.1 of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause AGD:
(a)
to furnish to the Bank for its review a basic organizational 
structure of AGD, the functions and responsibilities of its key staff, 
and its business plan for the following two years; and
(b)
carry on its operations in accordance with such proposal, 
modified, if needed, to take into account the Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall submit to the Bank, no later than 
November 30, 2000, a model satisfactory to the Bank in respect of the 
incentive contracts to be used for the advisory services to be provided 
under Part A.8 of the Project and shall thereafter, ensure that such 
contracts are concluded in terms and conditions substantially similar to 
such model as approved by the Bank.
Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall have hired, no later than 
November 30, 2000 the consultants for carrying out the activities 
referred to in Part B.2 of the Project.
Section 3.09.  The Borrower shall complete, not later than January 
31, 2001, the due diligence exercise of the credit portfolio referred to 
in Part A.5(a) of the Project.
Page  7
Section 3.10.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) month after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.11. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, 
respectively) shall be carried out by  the Superintendency, and AGD in 
respect of their parts of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to their parts of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have their records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of 
such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the 
audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with sound accounting 
practices, records and 
Page  8
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures are retained until at least one 
year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 
45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management 
Report for such period, which:
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower, AGD or the Superintendency shall have failed 
to perform any of their respective obligations under the Implementation 
Agreements.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that AGD or the Superintendency will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Implementation Agreements.
(c)
The Financial Institutions Law or the Financial Management 
Law have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Superintendency or AGD 
to perform any of their obligations under the Implementation Agreements.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the events specified in paragraphs (a), and (c) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
Page  9
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Implementation Agreements referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) (i) and (ii) of this Agreement, have been executed on behalf of the 
parties thereto;
(b)
the Bank have reviewed and found satisfactory the 
organizational structure, functions and responsibilities of AGD’s key 
staff, and the business plan referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this 
Agreement; and
(c)
that the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank, a format 
of a Project Management Report, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date January 24, 2001 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Avenida 10 de agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFINANZAS
22358 MINFIN
(5932)
559144
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Ivonne A. Baki
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   1,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
and 75% of local
expenditures.
(2)
Consulting services &
   8,900,000
100%
training, and audit fees
(3)
Front-end Fee
     100,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
  10,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
Page  11
the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000, on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after January 10, 2000.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit 
account in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Except as the Bank may otherwise by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after the Bank has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited 
into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall 
be supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount 
of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the 
Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying 
said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added 
to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
Page  12
the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower and its 
agencies to manage and confront the financial sector crisis and 
strengthen the regulatory framework and supervisory capacity of the 
authorities in order to foster the long term soundness and efficiency of 
the banking system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening of AGD
1.
Preparation of a strategy linking 
the Borrower’s programs for 
corporate and household debt restructuring, bank recovery and asset 
management under a framework that promotes efficient and prompt 
resolution of the banking crisis.
2.
Preparation of a legislative proposal to amend the Financial 
Management Law and its implementing regulations.
3.
Carrying out of a study to identify and overcome legal, regulatory 
and judicial obstacles for the rapid sale of AGD’s Managed Assets.
4.
Provision of services for the management and rapid sale of AGD’s 
Page  13
Managed Assets on the basis of reference prices and market conditions.
5.
Provision of technical assistance for the due diligence exercise 
precedent to the sale of: (a) the credit portfolio included in the
AGD’s 
Managed Assets comprising individual assets for an amount above 
US$500,000; and (b) the remaining credit portfolio included in the AGD’s 
Managed Assets.
6.
Strengthening of  the capabilities of AGD through: (a) the 
development of a new structure, organization and business plan that 
effectively respond to its new responsibilities; (b) the provision of 
training for all its staff; and (c) the provision of advisory services to 
help AGD in the implementation of its business plan.
7.
Improvement of  AGD’s information technology infrastructure.
8.
Provision of advisory services to assist in the efficient 
management of the open
banks under AGD’s administration.
9.
Provision of legal and financial advisory services to assist AGD in 
the re-privatization process of open
banks under AGD’s administration.
Part B:
Strengthening of Banking Supervision
1.
Provision of technical assistance to the Superintendency for the 
amendment of financial sector laws primarily focusing in the adoption of 
international best practices and the establishment of the role and 
responsibilities of the different institutions involved in the Borrower’s 
financial sector. 
2.
(a)
Review and improvement of existing manuals for: (i) on-site 
supervision of banks; (ii) procedures for internal and external auditor 
control; (iii) audit of information systems; and (iv) market risks 
evaluation; and 
(b)
Provision of the relevant training for the application of 
various manuals with special emphasis on examiners in charge of on-site 
supervision.
3.
Contracting of external audits for financial institutions.
Part C:
Corporate and Household Debt Restructuring
1.
Establishment and implementation of a comprehensive strategy to 
facilitate corporate and household debt restructuring. 
2.
Preparation of a study to identify and overcome legal and 
regulatory obstacles for rapid corporate debt restructuring.
3.
Establishment of a comprehensive framework for debt restructuring 
of small and medium enterprises.
Part D:
Project Management
Training of UEGI staff on auditing, procurement, financial 
management and other aspects of project implementation.
Page  14
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
     Dollars)*
January 15, 2006
415,000
July 15, 2006
415,000
January 15, 2007
415,000
July 15, 2007
415,000
January 15, 2008
415,000
July 15, 2008
415,000
January 15, 2009
415,000
July 15, 2009
415,000
January 15, 2010
415,000
July 15, 2010
415,000
January 15, 2011
415,000
July 15, 2011
415,000
January 15, 2012
415,000
July 15, 2012
415,000
January 15, 2013
415,000
July 15, 2013
415,000
January 15, 2014
415,000
July 15, 2014
415,000
January 15, 2015
415,000
July 15, 2015
415,000
January 15, 2016
415,000
July 15, 2016
415,000
January 15, 2017
415,000
July 15, 2017
455,000
        TOTAL:
10,000,000
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  15
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
All procurement of goods to which international or local 
competitive bidding applies shall be carried out using standard bidding 
documents acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Software and information technology equipment must be purchased 
from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment and 
costing $20,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B.1 hereof; and (ii) the first two contracts procured 
pursuant to Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
Page  16
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services estimated to cost more than the equivalent of 
$75,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 
3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consultant’s firms estimated to cost less than $75,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of 
the Consultant Guidelines and not exceeding in the aggregate of $500,000 
equivalent shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less but 
more than $30,000 equivalent, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.
(b)
With respect of each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less, the 
terms of reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded after the 
said approval shall be given.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Page  17
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section III:  Special Provisions 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other 
provisions set forth in this Attachment or the Consultant Guidelines, the 
following provisions shall govern all employment of consultants:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered 
as a condition of participation in the selection process.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or 
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting 
contracts to any local firm or person.
3.
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to 
provide services, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital 
different from that required for Ecuadorian firms.
4.
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be 
required to pay fees to the Ecuadorian Consultants' Association that are 
different from those required for Ecuadorian consultants.
5.
No consultant financed by proceeds of this loan shall, at the time 
he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as 
consultant, hold civil service office or any other position in an agency 
of the Borrower or any Ecuadorian public sector entity, nor shall such 
consultant have any right to re-entry into any such office or position 
upon the conclusion of his or her consulting services.
Section IV:
Internal Approvals
With respect to the procurement of goods and employment of 
consultants to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan, any approval 
of bidding documents and contracts required under the laws of the 
Borrower shall be limited to the standard bidding documents referred to 
in Section I, Part B.2 of this Schedule.
Page  18
