                                            Document o f
                                        The World Bank


                                   FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY

                                                                          ReportNo: 38399 - VN




                              PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                        PROPOSEDCREDIT

                          INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR39.0MILLION
                              (US$59.4 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                             SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                               FORA

                          SECOND HIGHER EDUCATIONPROJECT


                                           May 16,2007




HumanDevelopmentSectorUnit
East Asia andPacific Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance
o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Bank authorization.

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate EffectiveApril 30,2007)

                                  Currency Unit = Vietnamese DBng (VND)
                                        US$ 1.00 = VND 16,042
                                    VND 10,000 = US$ 0.62
                                        US$ 1.00 = SDR 0.66
                                       SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.52

                                  GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1  - December31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

I ADB     I Asian Develomnent Bank
I CPS     I Countrv Partnershin Strateev (2007) I
  DHE        Department o f Higher Education
             (MOET)
  DPF        Department o f Planning and Finance                Social Affairs
             (MOET)                                             Medium-TermExpenditure
I DPL
  GDETA   IIIDevelomnent Policv Lending              I         1Framework                        I
                                         Y
             General Department o f Education   1
             Gross Domestic Product
             Government o f Vietnam

             Higher education
  HEI     I  Higher education institution
  HEMPIS  I  Higher Education Management and




             (PO79669
  HEM        Higher Education Reform Agenda
  HERSP      Higher Education Reform Support
             Program
  HRD        Human Resource Development
  ICB        International competitive bidding
  IDA        International Development                TRIG      Teaching and ResearchInnovation
             Association                                        Grant
I IERR       Internalrate of return             I     VHLSS     Vietnam Household Living
                                                                                       -
  IFR     1I InterimFinancialReports                 I         IStandards Survev                 I
                                                      VND      IVietnamese Bang
        I
        I
IIPSAS       International Public Sector
             Accounting Standards               I     WTO      IWorld Trade Organization


                                 Vice President:      James W. Adams
                     Acting Country Director:         MartinRama
                                Sector Manager:       Christopher J. Thomas
                            Task Team Leader:         Jeffrev Waite

                                                                                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                              VIETNAM
                                   SECOND HIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT
                                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                                                                               Page

        A .   STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             .....................................................  1
           1.   Country and sector issues........................................................................................                1
           2.   Rationale for Bank involvement.............................................................................                      3
           3.   Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ........................................                                4

        B .   PROJECTDESCRIPTION                        .....................................................................................    4
           1.   Lendinginstrument..................................................................................................              4
           2.   Project development objective andkey indicators..................................................                                4
           3.   Project components .................................................................................................             5
           4.   Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design................................................                                6
           5.   Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..................................................                             6

        C .  IMPLEMENTATION                    ..............................................................................................    7
           1.   Partnership arrangements........................................................................................                 7
           2.   Institutional and implementation arrangements ......................................................                             7
           3.   Monitoringand evaluation of outcomesh-esults......................................................                               8
           4.   Sustainability...........................................................................................................
                      . . .                                                                                                                      9
           5.   Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects...................................................                             10
           6.   Credit conditions and covenants ...........................................................................                     11

        D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
          .                                           .....................................................................................     12
           1.   Economic and financial analyses ..........................................................................                      12
           2.   Technical...............................................................................................................        13
           3.   Fiduciary ...............................................................................................................       14
           4.   Social..................................................................................................................... 15
           5.   Environment..........................................................................................................           15
           6.   Safeguard policies.................................................................................................             16
           7.   Policy Exceptions and Readiness..........................................................................                       16


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

Annex 1:Country and Sector or Program Background                                 .............................................        17

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and other Agencies                                                     ..........23
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                       ............................................................         25

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description            ..........................................................................          32

Annex 5: Project Costs...................................................................................................            39

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                   .....................................................................          41

Annex 7: FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements                                               .........................     45

Annex 8: Procurement  ....................................................................................................            55

Annex 9: Economic Analysis      ..........................................................................................            62

Annex 10: FinancialAnalysis      .........................................................................................            74

Annex 11:SafeguardPolicy Issues           ................................................................................            80

Annex 12: Social Assessment      .........................................................................................            82

Annex 13: Project Preparation and Supervision                      .........................................................          95

Annex 14: Documents inthe Project File                .....................................................................           97

Annex 15: Statement of Loans and Credits                  ..................................................................          99

Annex 16: Country at a Glance        ...................................................................................            102

Annex 17: Country Map IBRD35262                 .........................................................................           104

                                    VIETNAM
                    SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT

                       PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                  East Asia & Pacific

                                       EASHD

Date: May 16,2007                          Team Leader: Jeffrey Waite
Acting Country Director: MartinRama        Sector: Tertiary Education (100%)
Sector Director: EmmanuelY. Jimenez        Theme: Education for Knowledge Economy
Project ID:PO79665                         Environmental screening category: C
Lending instrument: Specific Investment    Safeguard screening category: S3
       Loan (SIL)




                 Source                   I   Local      I    Foreign       I  Total
Recipient                                                                       6.3
IDA                                                                            59.4
Japan(PHRD Co-financing) [TF056736]                                             4.8
Total                                                                          70.5




Emuil: tthaamoet.edu.vn
                     Estimateddisbursements(US$ million/BankFy)
FY                  FY08           FY09            FYlO             FY11       FY12
IDA Credit           5.0           15.0             20.0              15.0      4.4
PHRD Grant           1.o            1.o              1.o              1.o       0.8
Cumulative           6.0           22.0             43.0             59.0       64.2

Does the project depart from the Country Partnership         Io Yes 0  N o
Strategy incontent or other significant respects?
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank
policies?                                                     o Yes 0 N o
Have these been approvedby Bank management?                   o Yes o N o 0 NIA
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the
Board?                                                        o Yes 0 N o
Does the project include any critical risks rated             0 Yes o N o
"substantial" or "high"?
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness     0 Yes o N o
for implementation?
Project development objective: Increase the quality o f teaching and research inuniversities, in
ways that improve the employability o f graduates and the relevance o f research.
Project description:
Component 1.Capacity Building for Policy Development. Component 1 aims to develop policy
and build capacity in policy development in the key areas o f (a) the organization o f the higher
education system and its governance at central and higher education institutions levels; (b) the
public supply- and demand-side funding o f higher education; and (c) quality o f students at entry
andquality o f services provided byhighereducation institutions.
Component 2. Capacity Building for University Teaching and Research. Component 2 aims to
strengthen teaching and research in selected universities, by: (i)buildingmanagement capacity in
universities (including the carrying out o f regular surveys as a management monitoring tool); and
(ii)financingTeachingandResearchInnovationGrantsub-projects intwogroups ofselected
universities, with Group 1 concentrating on "major"            universities as designated by the
Government, and Group 2 guaranteeing a small allocation for "equity" universities located in
disadvantaged regions.
Component 3. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. Component 3 aims to support
and ensure a smooth and effective implementation o f the project. This component covers both
project   coordination    (including    planning,    procurement,   financial  management      and
communications) as well as project monitoring and evaluation. Under this Component, led by a
Department o f Higher Education that i s strengthened through the capacity building activities, the
Ministryo fEducation andTraining will also develop the design andprepare documentationfor a
proposed follow-on Higher EducationReform Support Program.
Which safeguard policies are triggered. ifanv? None.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Board presentation: N o significant, non-standard conditions.
Credit effectiveness: [11Project Management Unit has beenestablished and its key staff
appointed; [2] Project Management Unit has adopted a Project Operations Manual acceptable to
the Bank; [3] Project Management Unit has established a computerized accounting system
satisfactory to the Bank inaccordance with the provisions o fthe Financial Management Manual;
and [4] Ministryo f Education and Training has issuedan investment decision approving at least
twelve Teaching and Research Innovation Grant sub-project proposals and signed Teaching and
Research Innovation Grant Agreements with at least six universities whose Teaching and
Research Innovation Grant sub-project proposals have been approved.
Covenants applicable to project implementation: N o significant, non-standard conditions.

A.      STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1.      Country and sector issues

1.      Background. Vietnam has made impressive progress inthe education and training
sector.   The Government o f Vietnam (GOV) has recognized the key importance o f
education in general, and higher education and research in particular, for the economic
and social development o f the country. For the last ten years, there has been rapid
expansion across all levels o f education, putting Vietnam at the forefront among low
income countries in terms o f tertiary participation. The rapid expansion places pressure
on the system, however, and threatens education quality. A further challenge for higher
education i s Vietnam's legacy o f central planning, under which training i s conducted in
highly specialized mono-disciplinary institutions in isolation from scientific research,
which i s carried out, for the most part, by specialized researchers in separate research
institutes.   The integration o f research and training within larger multi-disciplinary
universities i s a necessary step in Vietnam's full transition to a market economy. The
regulatory framework for higher education in Vietnam i s evolving. Initial steps have
been taken to encourage private provision and financing, establish a quality assurance
system and increase institutional and financial autonomy o f public higher education
institutions (HEIS),' but new structures, mechanisms and procedures will have to be
developed to make these changes fully effective and to achieve a more responsive,
flexible and diverse higher education system.

2.       Government strategy. In its "Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010,"
(SEDP)2 the GOV sets itself an overall quantitative goal o f "increasing enrollment in
universities and colleges by 10 percent annually, to reach a level o f 200 students over
10,000 population by 2010" and an overall qualitative goal o f "approaching the advanced
education standards o f the region and the world," specifically inter alia by: renovating
curricula and teaching methods; developing systems that increase study opportunities
through transfers; renovating financial mechanisms and policies to make institutions
more pro-active and responsible for finance, staff and organization;                          renovating
management with stronger decentralization, and clearer responsibilities and authorities
for different entities;     implementing quality assurance and accreditation schemes,
gradually applying standards and criteria used by developed countries and joining
international educational quality accreditation systems; encouraging the establishment o f
private institutions, including high-quality, accredited and 100 percent foreign-invested
institutions in science, technology, and economic management; encouraging foreign
scientific and educational experts and Vietnamese expatriates to teach inVietnam.




'Theterm   "higher educationinstitution" covers universities (dgi hoc) and colleges (cao dkng),bothpublic
and private.
2Socio-Economic DevelopmentPlan2006-2010 (Attachment to GovernmentResolution No. 25/2006/NQ-
CP, dated October 9, 2006).


                                                    1

GOV's specific priorities inhigher education are set out inits "Higher Education Reform
Agenda"                   which develops fonvard-looking strategy for the development o f
higher education and research. The main objectives o f the strategy are: (i)                      a dramatic
increase in capacity to allow an increase o f the participation rate inhigher education (or
tertiary) institutions, which implies huge investments in infrastructure and in training o f
new lecturers and faculty; (ii)          simultaneous increase in quality and/or efficiency o f the
~ y s t e m ; ~(iii) introduction or reinforcement o f research in universities -- in order
                    the
better to train the future new teachers, to enrich and upgrade present teachers' teaching
and to upgrade the quality level and international visibility o f Vietnamese universities;
and (iv) to improve the governance o f the higher education and research system at both
national and regional levels, as well as o f universities. This implies, inparticular, giving
greater autonomy to individual institutions and introducing measures in order to create a
climate o f competition between and within institutions that promotes improvement.

3.        Strategic goals. InHERA, the GOV has set the following targets for the higher
education sector:        (i) fromscienceandtechnologyactivities increasedto 15
                             revenue
percent o f total university revenue by 2010, and to 25 percent by 2020; (ii)                  proportion o f
university teaching staff with masters level degrees increased to 40 percent by 2010, and
to 60 percent by 2020; (iii)          proportion o f university teaching staff with doctoral level
degrees increased to 25 percent by 2010, and to 35 percent by 2020; and (iv) ratio o f
university students to teaching staff reduced to 20:1by 2020.

4.        Bank Assessment of HEM; Through HERA, GOV shows its commitment to
improving the higher education system in a rapidly changing economic and social
environment. It i s strategic, comprehensive and operational, with major emphasis on key
reforms that the Bank supports, namely: (i)                  improving the quality o f teaching and
research, with a view to integration into the increasingly globalized economy; (ii)
extending HE1autonomy, especially in academic and administrative matters, with a view
to improving responsiveness to the needs o f beneficiaries; and (iii)                    increasing private
sector investment, vital in the fiscal sustainability o f an expanding sector. GOV's main
challenge is to operationalize these strategic goals by addressing broad governance issues
(e.g. legal and financial frameworks) while promoting local, HEI-level modernization.
The costings associated with the H E M program are broad and require considerable
refinement. The current project will support the development o f thorough costings and
financing options (including options for public and private contributions), through its
sub-sector financing policy activities, with attention paid to the feasibility o f the GOV's



  Nghi quybt vk Obi mbi Cuban vi2 Toan di& Gib0 duc Dai hoc VietNam Giai doan 2006-2020
(Resolution on Comprehensive and Fundamental Reform o f Higher EducationinVietnam 2006-2020),
Prime Minister's Decree No. 14/2005/NQ-CP, dated November 2, 2005.
  Including: lower teacher-student ratios, a reformed entrance examination, better trained teachers, better
pedagogy, the development withinuniversities o f researchactivities indispensable for deepening and
broadening the teachers' scholarship, the transformation o f selected institutions into teaching and research
institutions, improved curriculum frameworks and better assessment or learning outcomes, greater
flexibility o f studyprograms and student mobility withthe introductiono f a credit accumulation system,
and the development o f a quality culture within the institutions, including the implementation o f an
accreditation system of all institutions (public and non-public) at the national level.


                                                       2

quality improvement program in the context o f massive expansion o f the higher
education system.

2.       Rationale for Bank involvement

5.       Building a higher education system in Vietnam that is innovative, responsive to
the demands o f the market and o f high quality i s essential to the economic growth and
development o f Vietnam. GOV has requested the Bank to provide continued support for
Vietnam's higher education agenda, recognizing the success o f past collaboration in the
sector.

6.       The Bank looks at economic development in a comprehensive way and can
therefore work with GOV on a higher education strategy that i s consistent with, and in
support of, Vietnam's overall development strategy. This i s all the more critical at a time
when Vietnam, having recently acceded to membershipo fthe World Trade Organization,
is looking to develop a skilled population, with a strong knowledge base, that will
position the country well for expansion and integrationwith the global economy.

7.       More specifically, the Bank can bring its international experience in the higher
education sector to help Vietnam implement its HERA program. The Bank has in-depth
experience across many higher education projects in the design and implementation o f
competitive funding, institutional autonomy and performance-based financing to drive
improved standards inresearch and teaching and improvements inthe relevance o f higher
education, all o f which are important objectives set out inHERA. The project also builds
off o f the experience and lessons learned from the first Bank-financed Vietnam Higher
EducationProject (HEPl).

8.       H E P l made a contribution to higher education reform in three ways. First, the
Quality Improvement Grants (QIGs) scheme increased effective autonomy, by providing
discretionary revenue that enabled universities to engage in local strategic planning
processes. Second, there i s greater public accountability both at institutional and central
administrative levels: (a) universities were required to disclose information, such as key
survey data; (b) the central administration established and institutionalized national
standards for quality assurance; and (c) quality assurance evaluations - a combination o f
self-evaluation and external evaluation - were carried out in universities on a voluntary
pilot basis. Third, there i s now a more systematic and unifiedview amongst ministries o f
the importance o f higher education policy development; indeed, policy design activities
carried out under HEP1, including institutionalization o f quality assurance and increased
autonomy, underpin HERA's policy content. HEP1 contribution to policy development
was nevertheless constrained by the project's organizational structure, with the project
coordination unit often unable to promote "ownership" o f specific policy activities within
the Ministry o fEducation andTraining (MOET) core business units (e.g. instrengthening
the central Higher Education Management and Policy Information System [HEMPIS]);
Second Higher Education Project (HEP2) design aims to overcome this weakness by
rendering systematic the (relatively unsystematic) achievements o f HEP1 (see below).




                                             3

3.      Higherlevelobjectivesto which the projectcontributes

9.      The Bank's five-year Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)5 supports the GOV's
"Five-Year Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010." Under CPS Pillar I,which
aims to assist GOV inits transitionto a market economy, the Bank's programwill help to
"develop a higher education system that produces graduates better suited to the new
economy's needs,"       measured by changes in the proportion o f students finding
employment within six months o f graduation by field o f study. The project contributes
directly to this objective by improvi,ngthe quality of higher education inways that enable
central government and universities to: (i)   produce graduates with the knowledge and
skills that meet labor market demands, and (ii)   support the national innovation system
through relevant basic and appliedresearch.

B.      PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1.      Lendinginstrument

10.     The project will be financed by a Specific Investment Loan (SIL), which enables
the Bank to provide investment support in the form o f (i)    technical assistance to build
capacity in central government for policy development in key reform areas; and (ii)       a
grants scheme to build capacity inselected universities inways that improveteaching and
research.

11.     Project funding, which totals US$ 70.5 million, will comprise an International
Development Association (IDA) credit o f SDR 39.0 million (US$ 59.4 million
equivalent), a Japan Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) co-financing
grant o f US$4.8 million (TF056736), and counterpart financing o fUS$ 6.3 million (to be
divided between GOV and those universities receiving a Teaching and Research
InnovationGrant (TRIG)). The Japanese PHRD grant will fund all consultants' services
andtraining(excluding study tours) under Sub-Components 1.1,1.2, 1.3 and 2.1.

12.     Inaddition to this SIL, a Development Policy Lending (DPL) operation -Higher
Education Reform Support Program (HERSP) - will support GOV's efforts, from FY09-
FY13, to put into place the key HERA measures, set out ina 5-year indicative program of
reform, for which technical assistance i s provided under HEP2. Taken together, this S I L
and the follow-up DPL will support the GOV's roadmap for implementing HERA,
through: first, a SIL investment in developing policy options and recommendations and
buildingcapacity inpolicy development within MOET; and then, a DPL budget support
to the implement policy reform measures that are developedunder the SIL.

2.      Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkey indicators

13.     Project development objective. HEP2 aims to increase the quality o f teaching and
research in universities, in ways that improve the employability o f graduates and the
relevance of research.

* ReportNo. 38236-VN, datedJanuary 3,2007.


                                             4

14.     Key project indicators. HEP2 includes the following key indicators, designed to
measure performance against the project development objective (PDO):
0   Proportion o f TRIG-recipientuniversities6having undergoneself-evaluation and
    external evaluation at least once under national pilot accreditation system;
0   Numbero farticles publishedby academic staff inthe previous year ininternationally
    refereed scientific journals inTRIG-recipient universities.

3.      Projectcomponents

15.     The project will achieve its objective through: (i)            developing policy and building
capacity at the central government level inthe areas o f governance, financing and quality
assurance; and (ii)   building capacity, relevance and autonomy at the university level.

16.     HEP2 comprises three Components.                  The first provides GOV with technical
assistance in developing policy options and recommendations at the system-level (Le.
MOET) in governance, financing, and quality assurance, and in building an integrated
information systemto support this policy development and future policy implementation.
The second would offer a facility to channel funds to selected universities to extend their
autonomy through implementing their own strategic development plans for improving
teaching and research.          The third would give operational support to a project
administration, management and monitoring andevaluation (M&E).

17.     Component 1. Capacity Building for Policy Development (US$ 4.8 million).
Component 1 aims to develop policy and build capacity inpolicy development inthe key
areas of: (a) the organization o f the higher education systemandits governance at central
and HE1levels; (b) the public supply- and demand-sidefinding o f higher education; and
(c) quality o f students at entry and quality o f services provided by HEIs.

18.     Component 2. Capacity Buildingfor UniversityTeaching and Research (US$ 61.4
million).   Component 2 i s designed to strengthen teaching and research in selected
universities, by: (i)    building management capacity in universities; and (ii)financing
TRIG sub-projects in two groups o f selected universities, with TRIG Group 1
concentrating on "major" universities as designated by GOV, and TRIG Group 2
guaranteeing a small allocation for "equity" universitieslocated indisadvantaged regions.
For examples o f likely TRIG-funded sub-projects, see the Detailed Project Description
(Annex 4).

19.     Component 3. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 4.3
million).   The aim o f Component 3 i s to support and ensure a smooth and effective
implementation of the project.            This component covers both project coordination
(including planning, procurement, financial management and communications) as well as
project M&E. Under this Component, led by a Department o f Higher Education (DHE)


 Or, inthe case of nationayregional universities (see Table A4-3), at least one constituent university
school.


                                                     5

that is strengthened through the capacity buildingactivities, the MOET will also develop
the design and prepare documentation for the follow-on HERSPDPL.

4.      Lessons learnedandreflectedin the projectdesign

20.     HEPl was the first large Official Development Assistance (ODA) project in
higher education in Vietnam and HEP2 benefits from that experience.             The lessons
learned from the HEPl suggest that the HEP2 would be implementedmore speedily, and
thereby fulfill its objectives more effectively, ifit i s designed as a simpler, shorter and
smaller project.

21.     Component I. HEP2's organizational structure and the design o f the technical
assistance aim together to strengthen the MOET's policy development performance and
improve on HEPl's results in this area. The policy development tasks are assigned
directly to the MOET's core business units (rather than to the Project Management Unit
[PMU], as under HEPl), and the technical assistance "accompanies" these business units
throughout the life o f the project, clearly providing not only technical inputs into the
analytic and policy design work but also capacity building in policy development
processes.

22.      Component 2. The HEP2 grants scheme i s different from H E P l grants scheme in
four main ways: (i) HEP2 scheme would involve a single round o f grants, rather than
                     the
the three successive rounds carried out under the HEPl scheme; (ii) universities
                                                                          fewer
would receive a grant under HEP2 (maximum 22 universities) than under HEPl (36
universities); (iii) 22 universities eligible to receive a grant under HEP2 would be
                    the
designated by MOET, these universities' sub-projects prepared and assessed, and at least
half o f the grants awarded by MOET before project effectiveness rather than during the
project implementation period as under HEPl;            and (iv) procurement prior review
thresholds have been raised from HEP1 levels, in recognition o f universities' experience
with Bank procedures.        All these elements aim at reducing the time required to
implement the project.

5.      Alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection

23.     Instrument. Both SIL and DPL as stand-alone projects were considered for this
operation. DPL was considered adequate due to GOV's efforts in advancing reform
spelled out in its SEDP and H E M strategies. These documents outlined major reform
goals and visions o f the higher education sector, showing their readiness to move into
programmatic approach to ODA support in higher education sector. In the short term,
however, there is still needfor specific investmentto provide technical assistance needed
to prepare measures to be put inplace under DPL. Therefore, the choice o f a combination
o f SIL and DPL operations was chosen to assist GOV in their efforts to advance higher
education reform measures.

24.     Scope of support for HEM policy development (Component 1). GOV's H E M
covers a wide range o f policy development areas that HEP2 (and the follow-up DPL)
could potentially support. In determiningwhich areas it would focus its support on, the


                                             6

Bank considered its comparative advantage and its experience. As noted above, the Bank
has in-depth experience, across many higher education projects around the world, in the
design and implementation o f competitive funding, institutional autonomy and
performance-based financing to drive improved standards in research and teaching and
improvements inthe relevance o f higher education. Areas that are included inHERAbut
which are not supported by HEP2 include in particular topics associated with the
centralized management o f the academic content in the higher education sector; most
notably, HEP2 will support neither centralized teacher training nor centralized curriculum
reform activities (including the reorganization o f the curriculum framework into a credit-
based system). That said, university sub-projects financed under the Component 2 grants
scheme may well involve academic reform at a decentralized level.

25.     Scope of university grants scheme (Component 2).         Alternative designs were
considered for the TRIG scheme. The design o f the TRIG scheme was in favor o f
reaching approximately 20 `key' universities rather than channeling a large amount o f
funding to one or two `centers o f excellence" for the reason o f access. Moreover, less
competition amongst universities was favored over more competition. Inclusion o f
colleges was also considered, however, the team decided that TRIGs would be targeted to
universities only. The main reason for these decisions i s to maintain a balance between
competition and concentration o f limited resources. Private universities are excluded
from the scheme, on the grounds that these institutions would be better served under a
separate on-lending operation, perhaps executed directly by the Ministry o f Finance
(MOF), which has experience implementing on-lending schemes to private providers o f
"social" services inother sectors.

26.     Implementation readiness. The team considered setting aside the first year o f
implementation o f the TRIG scheme (Component 2) for the process o f preparing and
assessing the sub-projects that are to be financed under the scheme. However, in order
for the sub-projects to be ready for implementation from the date o f effectiveness, TRIG
grant proposals will be prepared (by TRIG-eligible universities) and assessed (by the
TRIG assessment panel) and then at least half o f the grants awarded before the date o f
effectiveness. These preparatory activities will be funded from a combination o f HEP1
financing and HEP2 retroactive financing.

C.      IMPLEMENTATION

1.      Partnershiparrangements

27.     This project is co-financed by the Bank, Japan and GOV. Of the total project
costs, the Bank will provide US$ 59.4 million, Japan US$4.8 million, and GOV US$ 6.3
million (divided betweencentral and university financing).

2.      Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

28.     MOET will be the executing agency for the project and the Minister o f Education
and Training will be the executive authority on the project. The Vice-Minister for Higher



                                             7

Education within MOET will have managerial responsibility for the project and will be in
charge o f overseeing the Project Director.

29.     Within MOET, project implementation will be supported by a PMU, led by a
Project Director. The Project Director will report to the Vice-Minister for Higher
Education as managing authority o f the Project. All departments o f MOET involved in
the implementation o f Component 1, DHE (Sub-Component 1.1 Department o f Planning
and Finance (DPF) (Sub-Component 1.2) and General Department o f Education Testing
and Accreditation (GDETA) will report to the Project Director regarding project
activities under their sub-components. Along with the Project Director, the PMUwill also
consist o f coordinators for administration, financial management, procurement and M&E
to implement Component 3.         These officers will work closely with the DPF, staff
implementing Component 2 and staff in individual universities. The PMU will also
consist o f a TRIG manager and staff/consultants in charge o f implementing Component
2. These officers will work closely with staff from universities and member o f the TRIG
panels.

30.     MOET will establish an inter-ministerial Project Advisory Committee to advise
on the implementation of the project and to represent the views and interests o f the
various ministries and stakeholders.

3.      Monitoring and evaluation of outcomedresults

31      MOET will monitor four types o f indicators throughout the life o f the project:
a   Government strategy.      These strategy indicators link directly to the objectives
    outlined in HERA; they will be monitored on an annual basis to assess the overall
    progress o f GOV's higher education reform strategy.
0   Project development objective. These indicators - measuring the quality o f teaching
    and the quality o f research - will track progress against targets related to HEP2's
    PDO.
0   Intermediate results. These output indicators correspond to key activities planned
    under each component and sub-component o f the project. These indicators will be
    used by the PMU for close monitoring purposes, to identify blockages and progress,
    and will bereviewedby the Bank during supervisionmissions.
a   TRIG sub-projects.     These university-level performance indicators are collected,
    analyzed, and reported by universities. Each institution preparing a proposal for
    TRIGs will report on a standardized list o f indicators, which is a key requirement in
    submitting the TRIG proposal. The purpose o f TRIG indicators is to enhance the
    culture for quality assurance at each institution, to keep track o f progress over time to
    closely monitor changes duringthe implementation of TRIGs.

32.     At the central administration level, the PMU will include a M&E Coordinator
who will be responsible for establishment and maintenance o f the project M&E system
and for producing M&E reports, o f high quality and in a timely fashion, for the PMU,
MOET/GOV senior management andthe Bank.




                                               8

33.     A consultancy firm will be contracted to conduct a TRIG evaluation study, to
determine the effectiveness o f interventions introduced through the TRIG scheme. Data
will be collected and analyzed throughout project implementation to obtain adequate
information for data analysis.

34.     Finally, training sessions will be provided on M&E, for P M U and TRIG
Management Unit (TMU) personnel involved in the implementation o f TRIGs. HEIs
more generally will participate inboth the development and implementation o f HEMPIS,
to strengthen their data collection.

4.       Sustainability

35.      The project is designed to ensure sustainability o f the project, at both the
institutional and financial levels.

36.     Institutional sustainability: The Government has a long term commitment to its
higher education goals as demonstrated in its HERA program. The project has been
designed to facilitate the institutionalization o f some o f the key objectives o f the agenda,
including the establishment o f a quality assurance system and increasing the autonomy o f
HEIs. To help ensure the sustainability o f the project, there will be a strong focus on
capacity building within line departments of MOET to support higher education policy
and reforms and within HEIs to enable them to operate in a more autonomous
environment. Capacity building within MOET throughout project implementation will
allow them to continue effective implementation o f H E M strategies once the project i s
complete. Capacity building for universities in developing more robust and effective
institutional strategic planning and linking this to continuous review o f the university's
priorities and quality assurance systems will also help ensure the sustainability o f the
project's objective o f improving teaching and research. Finally, the sequencing o f SIL
and DPL will enable GOV to utilize technical assistance provided under S I L to analyze
and designreform measures that will thenbe put under the DPL operation.

37.     Financial Sustainability: A financial analysis was carried out to determine
whether resources would be available for GOV and universities to manage any recurrent
costs o f the project's investments. The impact o frecurrent costs on GOV's budget will be
negligible, not exceeding 0.5 percent o f projected budget revenue. Recurrent costs will
come primarily from maintenance costs o f investments and other minor civil works or
equipment that may also come from TRIGs. These impacts will be offset by anticipated
revenue that these universities will receive from research and development (R&D)
activities.




                                              9

5.      Critical risks and possible controversialaspects
                                            -
                     Risk                    R
 Toproject development objective            -
 MOET's core business unitscarry out their   M Leadstafffor eachpolicy development
management responsibilities in an               activity will form, with key PMU staff, a
 uncoordinated manner, resulting inpolicy       "Senior ManagementGroup" that meets
 decisions that are incomplete and/or           regularly to coordinate actions.
 incoherent (under Component 1).            __
 Overall impact o f TRIG scheme i s not      M MOETwill hire an independent firmto
 known, given the decentralized nature o f      carry out a TRIG evaluation study, with
 implementation.                                baseline, mid-termand completion data
                                                collected.
 To component results                       -
 Central PMUhas insufficient authority       M Minister's decision establishing aPMU
 capacity to carry out day-to-day project       will include clear delegation o f executive
 management inan efficient manner.              authority, inways that allow for
                                                streamlined decision-making processes.
 Central PMU's procurement decisions are     S  Procurement Manual will set out a
 subject to approval by MOET's DPF,             streamlined MOET-internal procurement
 resulting inmajor implementation delays.   -   approval process.
 Central PMUhas insufficient capacity to     S  MOETwill appoint an InternalAuditor (in
 ensure transparent financial management        addition to the usual external independent
 that meets acceptable standards.               auditors), to identify weaknesses and build
                                            -   capacity as needed.
 Central PMUhas insufficient capacity to     S  PMUwill hire a firmto assist with and
 provide consolidated Interim Financial         support the day-to-day financial
 Reports (IFRs) at the required standard and    management activities, including
 frequency.                                     collecting financial management
                                                information from universities, under the
                                                supervision o f the FinancialManagement
                                                Coordinator.
 Universities receiving TRIGs have           S  Capacity buildinginfinancial management
 insufficient capacity to manage sub-           will be provided under Sub-component
 projects to acceptable financial               2.1; financial management firm (see
 management standards.                          above) will buildcapacity inuniversities,
                                                as part o f its service functions.
 Some universities receiving TRIGs may       S  [Capacity buildingin financial
 have insufficient capacity to meet Bank's      management will be provided under Sub-
 requirements inmanaging sub-projects,          component 2.1; TRIG Group 2
resulting inpoor procurement decisions          universities will receive procurement
 which cause implementationdelays.          -   support from PMU.
                                            -S
Lisk Rating- H (High Risk), S (Substa a1 R ik), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or
            -          -
Low Risk)

38.     There are no apparent controversial aspects inthe project design.




                                             10

6.      Credit conditionsand covenants

Effectiveness conditions:
   P M U has been established and its key staff appointed: (i)     Project Director; (ii)
                                                                                        Sub-
    Component 1.1. [Governance] Coordinator; (iii)Sub-Component 1.2 [Financing]
    Coordinator; (iv) Sub-Component 1.3 [Quality Assurance] Coordinator; (iv) TRIG
   Manager; (v) Procurement Coordinator; (vi) Financial Management Coordinator;
    Accountant and Cashier (vii) M&E Coordinator; (viii) Administration Coordinator;
    and (ix) Internal Auditor, having qualifications and experience acceptable to the
   Bank;
   PMU has adopted a Project Operations Manual (including Procurement Manual,
   Financial Management Manual, TRIG Manual and hnplementation Plan) acceptable
    to the Bank;
    P M U has established a computerized accounting system satisfactory to the Bank in
    accordance with the provisions o f the Financial Management Manual; and
    MOET has issued an investment decision approving at least twelve TRIG sub-project
   proposals and signed TRIG Agreements with at least six universities whose TRIG
    sub-project proposals have been approved.

Legal covenants:
0   Maintain the PMU, with qualified staff, throughout project implementation;
0   Constitute the Project Director, Governance Coordinator, Financing Coordinator,
    Quality Assurance Coordinator and TRIG Manager as a Senior Management Group,
   responsible for integrating and coordinating policy development and project
    activities;
0   Establish an inter-ministerial Project Advisory Committee by November 30, 2007 and
   maintain throughout project implementation, to provide guidance in project
    implementation (see Annex 6 for membership);
0   Establish TMU in TRIG-recipient universities, with qualified staff, and maintain
   throughout TRIG sub-project implementation;
0   Submit annual work program (including financing plan and budget) not later than
   November 30 o f each year, commencing in2007;
0   Submit a semi-annual progress report (including M&E results) not later than 45 days
    after the end o f the period covered by the report;
0  Maintain the financial management system and submit IFRs semi-annually, no later
   than 45 days after the end o f each semester;
0  Prepare financial statements and submit annual audit report prepared by independent
    auditors no later than six months after the end o f each fiscal year;
0  Hire at least two procurement consultants to the P M Uby November 30,2007 to assist
   with procurement tasks under the supervision of the PMU's Procurement
   Coordinator;
0  Hire a financial management firm by January 31,2008 to assist with and support the
   financial management tasks under the supervision o f the PMU's Financial
   Management Coordinator;
0  Hirean independent M&EfirmbyMarch31,2008 to conduct evaluation study;



                                             11

0    Carry out the following actions in each TRIG-recipient university before the first
     disbursement i s made for that university's TRIG: (i)sign TRIG Agreement by
     December 31, 2008; (ii) at least one accountant and one cashier to the TMU;
                              appoint
     (iii) atleastoneprocurementofficertoeachTMU;(iv)agreewiththeBank
          appoint
     on the format o f the IFRs to be used by universities for their TRIGs; and (v) set up a
     computerized accounting system ineach TMU.

D.      APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1.       Economic and financial analyses

39.     Economic analysis. The economic case for the project rests on the assessment
that significant shortfalls in research and teaching development along with shortfalls in
the policy and management environment o f higher education inVietnam have resultedin
a higher education system that i s o f relatively low quality, particularly when compared to
other highperfonning countries in the region. Furthermore, increasing enrollment and a
decline in state funding has meant that more households are contributing an even greater
share to the costs o f obtaining higher education. This has resulted in overall low quality
o f teaching and research inmany universities and growing disparities betweenthem. This
i s a concern because the integration o f teaching and research in universities has been
shown to have positive effects on a country's economy.

40.      The major economic benefits o f the project are the incremental increase in the
earnings o f graduates and the economic returns to specific investments in research and
development activities. Other external benefits o f the project which will most likely
accrue to society at large and not just the direct beneficiaries o f the project are: (i)
improvements inteaching practices at universities that will filter down to lower levels o f
the system and thereby improve the effectiveness and efficiency o f education at these
levels; (ii) improved responsiveness o f the higher education system as a whole to the
needs of the economy and society; (iii)cost efficiencies at universities, namely,
reductions in unit costs as a result o f reduced repetition and dropout; and (iv) enhanced
capacity o f Vietnam to preserve and enhance the nation's cultural heritage by engaging
technically with external influences and institutions on a more even footing. Overall,
HEP2 will contribute significantly to increasing the skills o f higher education graduates,
development o f research activities and other improvements in the higher education
system which are all expected to have a positive economic return for the larger
Vietnamese society.

41.      Investing in improving the quality o f teaching and research at universities will
contribute significantly to increasing the skills o f higher education graduates and thus
increasing their potential earnings. A growing body o f research also suggests that there
are significant economic returns that accrue to society from investments in research and
development. A lack o f incentives for university faculty to undertake research, along with
high teaching loads and a low proportion o f faculty with advanced degrees, has meant
that research does not play a prominent role in universities in Vietnam. A cost-benefit
sensitivity analysis shows that strong benefits will likely accrue from both increased



                                              12

earnings o f higher education graduates and investment in research and development at
universities (See Annex 9).

42.     Financial analysis. From a financing perspective, the project's impact on the
GOV's recurrent budget i s negligible, never exceeding 0.5 percent o f projected budget
estimates for any financial year during the implementation or post-implementation period
of the project. Recurrent costs reflect the necessary investment in equipment and
refurbishments that will be associated with teaching, research, and administrative
activities generated under the project. In addition, maintenance costs will also increase
for universities funded under Group 1 of the TRIGs. As a result, incremental annual
recurrent costs associated with the project will reachjust over US$ 1.5 million by the end
o f the project. The minor impact on the recurrent budget will be offset by anticipated
revenues from the investment inresearch and development activities. These revenues are
assumed to be matching contributions by industry and other government and non-
government sources that will be interested inthe R&D activities of Group 1institutions.

2.      Technical

43.     The technical design o f the project has been informed by HEPl and ongoing
analytical and advisory work on the higher education sector in Vietnam. The project
design was also informed by other international experiences financed by the Bank and
other donors on improving the quality o f higher education systems.

44.     The technical design of the project focuses on two key elements. The first relates
to the importance o f capacity building at the national level to help GOV achieve the
objectives o f HERA and at the institutional level to enable HEIs to operate in a more
autonomous higher education system. Capacity building within MOET will ensure that
GOV has the skills and knowledge necessary to manage the higher education system in
the following key areas: governance, sector funding and quality assurance. Improvements
inpolicy inthese areaswill help ensure that the expansion ofthe higher education system
inVietnam is equitable, efficient and ofhighquality. Inaddition, capacitybuildingat the
university level will support universities to operate in a more autonomous environment
and develop a framework o f quality assurance and accreditation.

45.     The second key element relates to the grant funding for universities to improve
the quality o f teaching and research in the form TRIGs. TRIGs are to be awarded to
universities intwo groups, one targeting major universities and the other to universities in
disadvantaged regions. All universities submitting TRIG proposals must complete an
updated version o f their institution's strategic plan that articulates the goals and planning
for the institution's development to become more autonomous. TRIG proposals will be
evaluated by independentpanels. Capacity buildingwill be undertakento ensure that all
universities are prepared for the TRIGprocess.




                                              13

3.       Fiduciary

46.     Financial management. An assessment o f the project's financial management
capacity was conducted in October 2005, updated in December 2005 (with field visits to
several universities) and in January and March 2007. The project financial management
risk i s assessed as substantial, due to the decentralized financial management and to
weaknesses in MOET's and universities' financial management capacities, a weak              .
internal audit function and limitations in financial reporting. Financial management
arrangements o f HEP2 will be similar to those o f HEPl, with additional measures to
better meet administrative and managerial needs, strengthen internal controls and to
integrate the Bank's requirements.      There will be emphasis on enhancing PMU's
coordination, monitoring and supervising functions, streamlining reporting format,
improving assets management system and aligning budgetingprocess.

47.      A P M U will be established within MOET to coordinate, monitor and supervise
project implementation activities, including financial management arrangements at
participating universities.   The PMU will hire a firm to assist with the financial
management tasks and provide capacity buildingon financial management for the project
financial management team including universities' TMU accountants. Each university
will establish a financial management team within the TMU, consisting o f at least one
accountant and one cashier with qualifications and experiences acceptable to the Bank,
who will receive appropriate training on Bank financial management procedures.
Universities' TMUs will be required to have acceptable financial management
arrangements including accounting system with a suitable chart o f account and staffing
prior to receiving a grant. Internal audit reviews will supplement the annual financial
audit with a focus on the financial management o f the TRIG sub-projects.

48.       Procurement. Procurement Capacity Assessment was conducted by the Bank
team for MOET and ten universities. Procurement questionnaires were sent to MOET and
the universities, and responses received from them have been analyzed. During the pre-
appraisal mission, the Bank team also visited MOET and four universities to assess the
procurement system inplace.

49.       MOET i s familiar with the Bank procurement procedures through participating
infour Bank-fundedprojects. MOET anduniversities have also beenworking with other
donors such as Asian Development Bank (ADB) and fully acknowledge that the
procurement procedure o f the donor shall prevail in case conflicts between GOV's
procedures and those o f the donor. Inaddition, 36 universities nationwide participated in
the Bank-funded HEP1, and thereby gaining experience in the Bank procurement
procedures.     Some universities proactively identified cases o f possible fraud in
procurement. However, given the large number o f entities carrying out procurement
under HEP2, the procurement risk rate is set at "high." The P M U will hire at least two
procurement consultants to assist the Procurement Coordinator, while each T M U will
hire at least one procurement officer.




                                            14

4.     Social

50.    The poor, ethnic minorities, women and persons with disabilities are under-
represented both at the staff and student level inhigher education. Women account for
41 percent o f academics at HEIs. Males dominate the science and technology field
accounting for more than 70 percent o f enrollments.         Staff from ethnic minority
backgrounds account for only 1.5 percent o f total higher education staff, less at HEIs.
Women and ethnic minorities are also under-represented as students at approximately
40 percent and 1.5 percent o f total enrollment, respectively. The poor have less access
to education at every level and this i s most acute in higher education. With increasing
financial autonomy for institutions, the private costs o f higher education are likely to
increase. While a cap will be placed on tuition fees, institutions are likely to increase
charges for other services, making higher education beyond the reach o f the poor
without a system o f exemptions or subsidies.

51.    The TRIG grants allocated in two groups will provide all institutions pre-
selected by GOV with the chance o f attaining a grant. Separate groups for grant
applications will enable the smaller and weaker institutions to also participate inTRIGs
hnded under HEP2. The average TRIG to each Group 1 university will be US$ 3.2
million, and US$ 1.O million each to Group 2 university.

5.     Environment

52.    Under the TRIG scheme (Sub-Component 2.2), a university may fund the
refurbishment o f existing teaching, research or administrative spaces within its existing
campus site for the purposes o f implementing its grant, but may fund neither (i)       new
construction, whether whole new buildings or additions to existing buildings, nor (ii)
conversion o f existingbuildings for new functions (e.g. residential to administrative). The
TRIG Manual will make this clear so that all TRIG sub-projects are within the scope o f
the scheme. The TRIG Manual will also require universities to detail procedures for
dealing with hazardous waste from laboratories.




                                            15

6.        Safeguard policies

 Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                              Yes                No
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                   [ I              [XI
 NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                               [I               [XI
 Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  [ I              [XI
 CulturalProperty (OP 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                      [ I              [XI
 InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                       [I               [XI
 Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                     [I               [XI
 Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                       [I               [XI
 Safety o fDams (OPBP 4.37)                                                 [I               [XI
 Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)7                                  [I               [XI
 Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                        [I               [XI

7.        Policy Exceptions and Readiness

53.       There are no policy exceptions to this project operation. As noted above (in
Section BS), TRIG grant proposals will be prepared (by TRIG-eligible universities) and
assessed (by the TRIG assessment panel) and then at least half of the grants awarded
before the date of effectiveness, in order for the TRIG sub-projects to be ready for
implementation soon after project launch. These preparatory activities will be funded
from a combination of HEPl financing and HEP2 retroactive financing of US$ 80,000
underthe Credit andUS$20,000 under the Grant.




7Bysupporting the proposedproject, the Bank does not intendto prejudice the final determination ofthe
parties' claims o n the disputed areas.


                                                 16

                   Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground
               VIETNAM: SECOND HIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT

Vietnam has experienced impressive poverty reduction performance based on strong
macroeconomic foundations. From 2001-05, annual real GDP growth averaged 7.6
percent, and the proportion o f poor people i s a little more than one-third o f what is was
11years ago.' The economic crisis o fthe late 1990scaused export growth to fall from 25
percent per year for most of the decade to 2 percent in 1998. Inresponse to the crisis, the
Government initiated policy reforms in the trade and finance sectors to improve
macroeconomic management.              The reforms were successful, with export growth
rebounding to its original level by 2000 and the number o f domestic enterprises more
than doubling. Almost 80 percent o f the GDP came from services and industry,
employment in formal-sector small and medium enterprises appeared to have doubled,
domestic private investment rose by 3 percent o f GDP, and the share o f formal credit
going to the non-state sector rose to over 60 percent.

Inadditionto these trendsineconomic growth, education attainment is laudable. Vietnam
has expressed strong commitment to achieving universal basic education as a
foundational stone to social development and economic growth. Primary net enrollment
was 93 percent and secondary net enrollment 65 percent in2002,9 positioning Vietnam in
a very favorable position vis-a-vis countries with similar income per-capita. Finally, a
recent study on secondary education in Latin America and East Asia shows Vietnam as
one o f the very few countries that managed to improve secondary education coverage,
completion and equity since the mid-1990s.lo

World Trade Organization (WTO) membership, while continuing with poverty reduction
reaching the most vulnerable populations, will require comprehensive economic, legal,
institutional and social reforms to allow the country to take advantage o f the new market
and growth opportunities, and have these opportunities shared widely across different
population groups."        The country will need to make sure that its productive sector
becomes more and more competitive, by promoting continuous innovation, notably
through the absorption and adaptation o f new technology, and increasing productivity
levels. Although the reform processes launched almost two decades ago unleashed an
enormous entrepreneurial energy (private enterprises account now for 33 percent of the
value o f production in manufacturing)'* and nurtured an unusually diverse business
sector (small private businesses, large state-owned enterprises, foreign firms),              the
domestic private sector remains dominated by small enterprises and some large state-
owned enterprises, which often struggle to be competitive and, according to the 2006
Vietnam World Development Report, show insufficient integration in global value
chains. According to the same report, total factor productivity i s growing rapidly across

* CountryPartnership Strategy, Report No. 38236-W, January 2007.
9EdStats (http:/lsima.worldbank.org/edstats/).
10See The Bank (2006): "Meeting the Challenges o f Secondary EducationinLatinAmerica and East
Asia".
`IEconomic growth has favored urban over rural residents, and has missed some ethnic minority and
migrant communities.
12See Vietnam Development Report (2006): "Business."


                                                  17

the board but growth i s faster in foreign companies than in domestic ones, suggesting still
insufficient productivity spillovers and a constraint for more inclusive growth.

Key drivers of competitiveness and growth include an adequate investment climate
(including among others a sound legal, fiscal and financial environment, appropriate
infrastructure, etc), access to and spillovers o f technology and high level o f human
capital. Recently several studies have posited that a population with at least full
secondary education i s key to boosting national competitiveness and GDP in an
increasingly globalized and technological world.l3These papers show that educational
attainment indeveloping countries has beenpositively related to GDP levels over the past
three decades and that mass secondary schooling, in particular, i s critical to the ability o f
countries to attract and benefit from trade and foreign direct investment. Human capital
will be key to translate the new knowledge acquired through trade and foreign investment
into new pervasive business opp~rtunities,'~which, in turn, will lead to the development
o f the domestic productive sector and new trade and foreign direct investment.
Additionally, skilledworkers are muchmore productive than unskilled workers intoday's
technologically advanced firms. Skilled labor generates a beneficial cycle in which
higher-skilled workers, by being more productive, generate greater profits for firms, who
reinvest a portion o f those profits in higher salaries, thereby increasing the assets o f
workers who, inturn, can invest more indeveloping more skills. There is, therefore, both
a direct link between the relationship o f education and wages at the individual level (as
captured by private rate o f return analysis) and the relationship o f education and
aggregate income at the country level. What i s more, this skill upgrading should have a
larger effect on growth rates now than before because o f the increasing need for skilled,
educated labor. Thus, countries with low levels o f education remain in a trap o f low
innovation, low productivity, low growth and low demand for education.

There are still constraints to competitiveness and growth in Vietnam, including
insufficient labor skills and education. According to the 2006 Vietnam World
Development Report, sustaining business development will require the completion o f the
structural reform agenda. Key priorities o f this agenda are fully developing the land
market, restructuring the financial sector and mobilizing resources for infrastructure
development. Another perceived important barrier to business development is, however,
finding the skills requiredto move up the ladder, suggesting that continuous upgradingo f
the human capital stock will continue being a key priority (in the 2006 Vietnam World
Development Report labor skills and education were considered to be the third binding
constraint for business development).

High and increasing rates o f return in higher education, low unemployment rates and
changing productive structure suggest increasing demand for higher education. The need
for upgrading skills i s also illustrated by the secondary education and, above all, higher


l3See Fuller and Holsinger (1993) and Bank (2003): "Closing the Gap inEducation and Technology."
14See also Cohen and Levinthal(1998), who have developed the concept o f "absorptive capacity," which
signifies a firm's ability to identify, assimilate and exploit knowledge from the environment, and advocated
that this absorptive capacity i s a function o fresearchand development and the capacities o f the firm's
individual members, which are inturnrelated to the human capital stock inthe fm.


                                                        18

education earning premium (over, respectively, primary and secondary) (Figure 1). Nga
Nguyet Nguygn (2002)15 shows that the important market reforms introduced during the
1990s in Vietnam were accompanied by significant increases in the returns to upper
secondary and higher education. Similarly, Gian and others (2006)16 show that returns to
education have increased between 1998 and 2002, period o f continuous trade
liberalization. High rates o f return in higher education can suggest significant demand-
supply gaps at this level (or a fairly inelastic supplyo fhigher education).

According to 2004 Living Standards Measurement Study (LSMS) data, unemployment
rates o f higher education graduates with a university level are fairly low and decreasing
with age. They reach about 5 percent for the 18-24 years old, decreasing to about zero for
all subsequent age ranges.

Finally, the shift towards industry and services, sectors more intensive inpost-secondary
graduates (currently, according to Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs
(MOLISA) data, about 30 percent o f the workers employed in industry and trade and
services have post-secondary qualifications, versus less than 10 percent in agriculture),
also suggests increasingdemand for higher levels o f education.

While demand i s increasing, higher education supply still appears to be low, although
increasing.    From a mere 2 percent in the early 1990s, the higher education gross
enrollment rate now reaches about 10 percent, showing significant increase. However,
this rate is much lower than the one o f the other education levels. Additionally, only
about 9 percent o f the youth employed in enterprises had reached the college/university
level in 200317 and about 56 percent o f the firms interviewed in the recent Investment
Climate Survey considered lack o f skilled and educated workers to be an obstacle to their
business. Both the transition between upper secondary and higher education and upper
secondary completion (at only about 55 percent) have an impact on low higher education
enrollment and attainment.

The quality and relevance o f tertiary skills, in terms of adequacy to labor market needs
and productivity also shows some weaknesses.                    Quality would ideally need to be
measured by results o f academic assessments, but these are rarely available in higher
education. Relevance can be more easily measured interms o f adequacy to labor market
needs/employability, innovation and productivity. Relevance and quality are closely
interrelated since it i s unlikely that graduates from a low quality higher education
program would be valued by employers and/or be very productive.

Labor skills appear unequally distributedacross sectors suggesting possible inadequacies
in specific skills offered. According to the Investment Climate Survey data, about 40
percent of state-owned enterprises have more than 40 percent o f workers with post-


15Nga Nguyet Nguyen (2002): "Trends inthe EducationSector from 1993-98," Bank
Policy ResearchWorking Paper 2891, Bank, Washington DC.
16Gian, C, Quang DH, Huong NTL and Oostendorp, RH(2006): "Trade liberalization, the gender gap and
returns to education inVietnam" - Institute o f Labor Science and Social Affairs (mimeo).
17Ministryo f Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs (MOLISA), 2003.


                                                    19

secondary qualifications, versus about 27 percent o f private sector firms. This fact may
suggest persistent higher demand for higher level qualifications from the state-owned
enterprises, higher demand from the post-secondary graduates to work in these sectors,18
but also indicate a strong connection between the requirements o f the State sector
companies and the organization o f training in academic institutions, showing
inadequacies in post-secondary programs. It i s likely that the private sector still needs to
find a balance in terms o f trained labor force, as also shown by a 40 percent o f private
firms considering the level o f skilled workers to be an obstacle for their business. Within
the industry sector, about 60 percent o f the electronic and electrical machinery sectors
count with more than 40 percent o f workers with higher education, versus only 19
percent in textiles and 30 percent in chemical activities. While this could be on the
surface a plausible distribution o f skills, data on skills constraints show that about 50
percent o f firms in the textiles and chemical sectors consider skilled labor to be
inadequate for their needs. Finally, export-oriented sectors (50 percent o f sale export)
count with a lower fraction o f workers with higher education than more import-oriented
ones (20 percent versus 40 percent), suggesting a current exporting structure still very
focused on labor-intensive low-technology products and that skills may become a
bottleneck for innovation and export diversification and upgrading in the future (in fact,
already about 40 percent o f firms exporting more than 50 percent o f their product
consider skilled labor to be inadequate).

The quality and innovation potential o f higher education graduates also seems too low.
Some initial evidence on higher education in Vietnam suggests that the quality,
employability and productivity o f higher education graduates may still be too low as
measured by the highrates o f youth workers with vocational and university college level
who need further training after employment (about 60 percent).                      Additionally, while
Investment Climate Survey data suggest that firms acquiring new technologies are more
likely to develop new product lines than firms with lower proportions o fhigher education
graduates, the difference i s not very large (they are only about 10 percent more likely).
The difference i s larger when it comes to agree to a new joint venture. This evidence
suggests that higher education may not be the only or even most important determinant o f
innovation insome o f the currently low-tech sectors (getting back to the question o f what
should be the current adequate supply o f higher education), but also that the quality o f
skills will need to be upgraded to improve productivity and innovation inthe future.

Quantity, quality and relevance o f higher education may be constrained by several higher
education features. Some initial constraints in the set-up o f higher education can be
identified. First, an increasingly competitive entrance examination to higher education
combined with enrollment quotas imposes a barrier to entry to this education level. This
barrier has been somewhat released by allowing HEIs to accept fee-paying students
above the quotas, but the fees still impose a barrier to access on many students.
Additionally, the supply o f private HEIs remains strictly regulated.20 Although these


l82003 MOLISA data suggest that most university graduatesprefer working inthe public sector.
"See MOLISA 2003.
20Privateuniversities are not allowed to enroll more than 1,500 students and have state fixed maxima on
the fees that they cancharge.


                                                    20

policies may help maintain some minimum quality standards, they may end up limiting
both the supply and variety o f tertiary skills offered. Second, quality assurance inhigher
education needs to be further strengthened, although it i s improving through the creation
o f the GDETA, which i s involved in accrediting institutions, and the development o f the
HER4 program, which includes measures to better assess quality. Third, higher
education in Vietnam still primarily consists o f mono-disciplinary institutions which
focus on just one field o f study. Multi-disciplinary institutions remain a minority. This
can constrain the ability o f the higher education system to produce workers for a
changing labor market. Multi-disciplinary institutions are less specialized and thus can be
more flexible in providing an education that i s relevant for an expanding and diverse
economy. Moreover, mono-disciplinary institutions in Vietnam tend to be smaller and
thus tend to make less efficient use o ftheir resources (higher unit costs than larger, more
diverse institutions).21     Fourth, there i s evidence o f low quality o f technical and
vocational education and training. Finally, there also appears to be limited HEI-industry
collaboration, in articular when it comes to technology provision and technical
assistance to firms.  E

Inits "Five-Year Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010,"23 the GOV sets itself
an overall quantitative goal o f "increasing enrollment in universities and colleges by 10
percent annually, to reach a level o f 200 students over 10,000 population by 2010" and an
overall qualitative goal o f "approaching the advanced education standards o f the region
and the world," specifically inter alia by: renovating curricula and teaching methods;
developing systems that increase study opportunities through transfers; renovating
financial mechanisms and policies to make institutions more pro-active and responsible
for   finance,    staff and organization;               renovating management with stronger
decentralization, and clearer responsibilities and authorities for different entities;
implementing quality assurance and accreditation schemes, gradually applying standards
and criteria used by developed countries and joining international educational quality
accreditation systems; encouraging the establishment o f private institutions, including
high-quality, accredited and 100 percent foreign-invested institutions in science,
technology, and economic management; encouraging foreign scientific and educational
experts and Vietnamese expatriates to teach inVietnam.

GOV's specific priorities in higher education are set out in its HERA program, which
develops forward-looking strategy for the development o f higher education and research.

The main objectives o f the strategy are:
0    A dramatic increase incapacity to allow an increase o f the participation rate inHEIs,
     which implies huge investments in infrastructure and intraining o f new lecturers and
     faculty;


"HighereducationinVietnamappearstobecostlyifweconsiderthatthecountryspendsabout22.3
percent o fthe educationbudget on this level alone.
22See Tran Ngoc Ca: "Universities as drivers o f the urban economies inAsia: the case o f Vietnam" (2005),
mimeo.
23Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010 (Attachment to Government ResolutionNo.
2512006/NQ-CP, dated October 9, 2006).


                                                     21

0  A simultaneous increase inquality and/or efficiency of the system -- reflecting lower
   teacher-student ratios, a reformed entrance examination, better trained teachers,
   better pedagogy, the development within universities o f research activities
   indispensable for deepening and broadening the teachers'                scholarship,   the
   transformation of selected institutions into teaching and research institutions,
   improved curriculum frameworks and better assessment or learning outcomes, greater
    flexibility of study programs and student mobility with the introduction o f a credit
    accumulation system, and the development o f a quality culture within the institutions,
    including the implementation o f an accreditation system o f all institutions (public and
   non-public) at the national level;     ,

0   The introduction or reinforcement o f research inuniversities -- inorder better to train
    the future new teachers, to enrich and upgrade present teachers' teaching and to
    upgrade the quality level and international visibility o f Vietnamese universities;
    To improve the governance o f the higher education and research system at both
    national and regional levels, as well as o f HEIs. This implies, in particular, giving
    (much) greater autonomy to the individual institutions and introducing different
    measures in order to create a climate o f competition between and within institutions
    inorder to encourage change andimprovement.

Through HEM, GOV shows its commitment to improving the higher education system
in a rapidly changing economic and social environment. It is strategic, comprehensive
and operational, with major emphasis on key reforms that the Bank supports, namely: (i)
improving the quality o f teaching and research, with a view to integration into the
increasingly globalized economy; (ii)   extending HE1autonomy, especially in academic
and administrative matters, with a view to improving responsiveness to the needs o f
beneficiaries; and (iii)increasing private sector investment, vital in the fiscal
sustainability o f an expanding sector. GOV's main challenge i s to operationalize these
strategic goals by addressing broad governance issues (e.g. legal and financial
frameworks) while promoting local, HEI-level modernization. The costings associated
with the H E M program are broad and require considerable refinement (especially in
relation to GOV's ambitious plans for expansion o f the higher education system). The
current project will support the development o f thorough costings and financing options
(including options for public and private contributions), through its sub-sector financing
policy activities.




                                            22

     Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank andother Agencies
             VIETNAM: SECOND HIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT

Bank-financed                 Sector Issue                     LatestISR     IEG
                                                                 Ratings
                                                              IP       DO
Primary Education Project     Educationplanning, school        S        S     S
(Cr. 2548-VN)                 infrastructure, curriculum,
                              assessment capacity
Primary Education for         Educationplanning, FSQL,        M S      MS    NA
Disadvantaged Children        inclusive education
Project (Cr. 3752-VN)
HigherEducationProject        Marketrelevance, staff           S        S    NA
(Cr. 3126-VN)                Iupgrading,institutional      I         I     I
                               strengthening
Primary Teacher               Teacher standards, teacher                     NA
Development Project           training, quality assurance,
(Cr. 3594-VN)                 civil service regulations
Targeted Budget Support for   FundamentalSchool Quality                      NA
National Education for All    Level (FSQL),overarching
Plan Implementation           policy framework in
Program (Cr. 4089-VN)          education finance, planning
                             I and governance               I        I      I

ISR= Implementation Supervision Report
IEG= Independent EvaluationGroup (formerly Operations EvaluationDepartment)
IP= ImplementationProgress; D O =Development Objective
S = Satisfactory; M S = Moderately Satisfactory; NA =Not Available




                                           23

Other development agencies             Sector Issue
ADB: Teachers Training                 Provide training for secondary teachers of
                                       ten provinces
ADB: UpperSecondary Education          Develop and improve quality o f secondary
Develonment                            education
ADB: Second Lower Education            Continue to support quality improvement
Development                            and completion o f lower secondary
                                       educationuniversalizationbv 2010
ADB: UpperSecondary andProfessional    Provide training for upper secondary
Teacher Development                    teachers and education managers
Belgium: Improving Pre- and In-Service Teacher training
Training o fPrimary and Lower Secondary
Teachers inthe Northern Highlands
European Commission: Strengthening     Policy design, financial management
MOET                                   capacity building, education management
                                       information system
European Commission: Support to the    Policy design, financial management,
Renovation o f EducationManagement     capacity building, school inspection and
                                       management, management information
                                        systems
EC-DFID: SUPPOI?to SEDP 2006-2010      National andprovincial planning, skills
                                       develonment and consultation
JICA: Primary School Construction      Primary school construction
JICA: Capacity Building                 Capacity buildingo f HCMC Universityo f
                                        Technology to strengthen the community-
                                       universitylinkage
NORAD: Education Development            Semi-boarding schools, teacher training,
Sumort to Ethnic Minorities             school management
UNICEF: Adolescence Development and     Education on life skill and health
Participation                          Drotection
UNICEF: Child-friendly Primary          Quality and equity inprimary education,
Education                               child-friendly environment
UNICEF: Early Childhood Development    Psychosocial development and school
                                       readiness for primary education
Oxfam GB: Teacher Training             Primarv teacher training
Oxfam GB: Basic Education for Ethnic   Education for ethnic minorities
Minorities
Save the Children Australia: Teacher   Primary teacher training
Training
Save the Children France: Multi-grade  Education for ethnic minorities
teaching and bilingual education
Switzerland: Capacity building         Capacity building for education, training
                                       and research in environmental science and
                                       technology innorthernVietnam



                                       24

                       Annex 3: ResultsFramework andMonitoring
               VIETNAM: SECOND HIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT
                                  I :sultsFramework2007-201
                                                                             of           n
 [SEDP]Execute fundamental          0   Revenuefrom science           Monitor the mid-term
 studies innatural sciences,        andtechnology activities          progressofthe Higher
 social and human sciences,                                           Education Reform Agenda
 and management sciences, to        increased to 15 percent of
 [...]boost industrialization,      total university revenueby        2006-2020 on annual basis.

 modernization and                  2010, andto 25 percent by
 internationalintegration,          2020;
 creating pre-requisite             0   Proportion of
 conditions for the                 university teaching staff
 development o f a knowledge-       with masters level degrees
 based economy. [...]               increasedto 40 percent by
 Strengthen the linkage o f         2010, and to 60 percent by
 science and technology with        2020;
 training and education, and o f
 research and training with         0   Proportion of

 production and business.25         university teaching staff
  [HEM] Carry out                   with doctoral level degrees
 fundamental and                    increased to 25 percent by
 comprehensive reform o f           2010, andto 35 percent by
 higher education; undertake a      2020;
 process o f profound renewal           Ratio of university
 inthe area o fquantity, quality    students to teaching staff
 and effectiveness, in order to     reducedto 20:1by 2020.
 meet all the demands o f
 industrialization,
 modernization, global
 economic integration and
 society's demand for learning
 opportunities. By 2020,
 Vietnam aims to have a
 higher education system that
 i s advanced by international
 standards, highly competitive,
 and appropriate to the
 socialist-oriented market
 mechanism.26




24Selected"specific objectives" fromHigher Education ReformAgenda (GovernmentResolution
No.14/2005/NQ-CP, datedNovember 2, 2005)
25Socio-EconomicDevelopment Plan 2006-2010 (Attachment to GovernmentResolutionNo. 2512006iNQ-
CP, dated October 9,2006) Action Plan, Part I,Section11, Sub-section 1
26Nghi quyht vk D6i mdi Cu ban vh Tohn di&n Giao duc Dai hoc VietNam Giai doan 2006-2010
(Resolution on Comprehensiveand FundamentalReformof Higher Education inVietnam 2006-2010),
Prime Minister's Decree No. 14/2005iNQ-CP, datedNovember 2, 2005.


                                                 25

 Pillar I(Improving the             0   Increasedproportion o f          Monitor progress against
 Business Environment):             universitygraduates                  CPS Objective on annual
  Improving the quality,            enteringrelevant                     basis.
  efficiency and equity o f the employment within 6
 higher educationsystemto           months o f graduation.
 produce relevant skill sets
  and increase the proportion
  o f graduate students
  entering skills-relevant
  emdovment.
                                            tco                                              e

  Increase the quality o f          0    Proportion o f TNG-             Monitor progress against
  teaching and research in          recipient universities28             Project Development
  universities inways that          having undergone self-               Objective on annual basis.
  improve the employability         evaluation and external
  o f graduates and the             evaluation at least once
  relevance o f research.           undernationalpilot
                                    accreditation system;
                                    0    Numbero farticles
                                    publishedby academic
                                    staff inthe previous
                                    calendar year in
                                    internationallyrefereed
                                    academic journals in
                                    TRIG-recipient
                                    universities.




27Report No. 38236-VN, dated January 31, 2007.
28 Or, inthe case ofnationalhegionaluniversities (see Table A4-3), at least one constituent university
school.


                                                   26

 C1: CapacityBuilding               0   Analytic work and            Monitor project
 for PolicyDevelopment              presentation ofpolicy            implementationprogress
  1.1: Governance                   options for the                  on quarterly basis.
  1.2: Financing                    development o f higher
  1.3: Quality Assurance            education governance
                                    issues produced;
                                    0   Analytic work and
                                    presentation ofpolicy
                                    options on higher
                                    education finance
                                    mechanisms produced;
                                        Analytic work and
                                    presentation o fpolicy
                                    options for the
                                    establishment o f
                                    accreditation standards,
                                    quality assurance
                                    mechanisms and admission
                                    svstems Droduced.
 C2: CapacityBuilding               0   Numberand frequency
 for UniversityTeaching             o fparticipation of
 andResearch                        representatives from
 2.1: Capacity Buildingfor          TRIG-recipient universities
 Universities                       intraining courses.
 2.2: TRIGs                         0   Positive impact o f
                                    TRIG scheme as evaluated
                                    bv indenendentfirm.29

Monitoringandevaluationof outcomeshesults

HEP2 will support many M&E activities, including: (a) development of quality assurance
systems to monitor the quality and standards of HEIs; (b) the development o f a new
HEMPIS to support higher education policy development and to facilitate international
comparisons; (c) evaluations o f the TRIGs scheme as evaluated by an independent firm;
(d) capacity buildingfor improving M&E capacity inMOET and at the PMU level; and
(e) development o f a monitoring plan for the P M Uto track project progress.




29Based, inpart, on indicatorsset out inTRIG-recipientuniversities'TRIGAgreements.


                                                 27

Arrangementsfor ResultsMonitoring

Monitoring HEP2 progress. MOET will monitor four types o f indicators throughout the
life o f the project:

     Government strategy.      These strategy indicators link directly to the objectives
    outlined in HERA; they will be monitored on an annual basis to assess the overall
    progress o f GOV's higher educationreform strategy.
    Project development objective. These indicators      - measuring the quality o f teaching
     and the quality o f research - will track progress against targets related to HEP2's
    PDO.
    Intermediate results. These output indicators correspond to key activities planned
    under each component and sub-component the project. These indicators will be used
    by the P M U for close monitoring purposes, to identify blockages and progress, and
     will be reviewed by the Bank duringsupervisionmissions.
     TRIG sub-projects.     These university-level performance indicators are collected,
     analyzed, and reported by universities. Each institution preparing a proposal for
     TRIGs will report on a standardized list o f indicators, which is a key requirement in
     submitting the TRIG proposal. The purpose o f TRIG indicators is to enhance the
     culture for quality assurance at each institution, to keep track o f progress over time to
     closely monitor changes duringthe implementation o f TRIGs.

Capacity building in M&E. At the central administration level, the PMU will include a
M&E Coordinator who will be responsible for establishment and maintenance o f the
project M&E system and for producing M&E reports, o f high quality and in a timely
fashion, for the PMU, MOET/GOV senior management and the Bank.

At the university level, training sessions will be provided on M&E, especially for
universities and its personnel involved in the implementation o f TRIGs. HEIs will
participate in both the development and implementation o f the new HEMPIS, to
strengthen their data collection.

TRIG Evaluation. A consultancy firm will be contracted to conduct a TRIG evaluation
study, to determine the effectiveness o f interventions introduced through the TRIG
scheme. The evaluation will be conducted to determine the effectiveness o f the TRIG
scheme in its aims of: (i)  promoting university autonomy, and (ii)     improving the quality
o f teaching and research.     An independent firm will closely monitor the impact o f
intervention in these two groups, as well as other factors that may cause impact (e.g.
other donor funding similar interventions). Evaluation o f TRIGs will be conducted after
the closure o f TRIGs sub-projects, or before six months o f HEP2 closing date. The
findings of the evaluation will not only inform the effectiveness o f a particular
intervention during the life o f the project, but will also contribute towards future policy-
making o f similar interventions. These findings will be documented in a report, or as part
o f the evaluation o f the project (e.g. Mid-term Review or Implementation Completion
Report).




                                              28

Higher Education Management and Policy Information System. A new HEMPIS will be
established during the project to put in place a reliable and permanent statistical
collection o f data to inform policy decisions and to improve both internal and external
efficiency and quality o f higher education, using the existing information structure. The
purpose o f HEMPIS i s to facilitate policy makers and decision makers in monitoring
educational service delivery and its effectiveness by collecting, processing data,
analyzing, publicizing, distributing, and rendering information on educational services. A
preliminary assessment o f the information system will be conducted, and the framework
for HEMPIS will be developed and validated during the first phase o f the project
implementation. The project aims to institutionalize the HEMPIS framework and assess
the production of baseline data from the newly established HEMPIS by the end o f the
project to improve data collection as a tool for better policy-making.




                                             29

      w
      e


      El




x
hl

hl

      I




            0
            M




Q
hl

2




      ?Z

I     I


        cr



                 i  z




                 i  z




                    ?
                    Z




sZ            ?
              z     ?Z

              -3

                        'Annex4: DetailedProjectDescription
              VIETNAM: SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT

HEP2 comprises three Components. The first provides GOV with technical assistance in
developing up-to-date policies, systems, instruments and programs at the system-level
(i.e. MOET), with a view to establishing sound fundamentals in the higher education
sector. The second offers a facility to channel funds to individual universities in ways
that support their own strategies for improving teaching and research. The third gives
operational support to a project administration, management andM&E.

Component1: CapacityBuildingfor PolicyDevelopment(US4.8 million)

Component 1 comprises three Sub-Components: 1.1 (Governance), 1.2 (Financing), and
1.3 (Quality Assurance).    In order to promote sustainability o f the capacity building
activities, each o f the three sub-components will be implemented by the MOET
department responsible for the relevant policy area: DHE, DPF, and DGETA.
Coordination across these sub-components will be assured through the establishment o f a
Senior Management Group bringingtogether on a regular basis the heads of each of the
three implementing units with the Project Director and the TRIG Manager.

The various activities will involve small teams (MOEThniversity staff assisted by a
consultant firm) thereby ensuring access to international good practice, sufficient
understanding o f local conditions, and a transfer o f skills from international and national
experts. In each case, the teams' analytic work will be combined with the design and
implementation of practical applications through planning retreats, review workshops,
policy seminars.

Sub-Component 1.1 (US$ 2.8 million), to be implemented by MOET's DHE, will
improve the organization o f the higher education system and its governance at central and
HE1levels. Technical assistance will provide policy advice and capacity building that
result in the Government: (a) developing policy options and recommendations on the
organization and governance o f the higher education sector; (b) developing policy
options and recommendations on a regulatory frameworks for the integration o f advanced
research and teaching and for the promotion o fprivate sector investment; and(c) building
a new HEMPIS using a set o f standard key indicators to enable decision-makers to
monitor the performance o f the higher education sector.

Sub-Component 1.2 (US$ 0.8 million), to be implemented by MOET's DPF, will review
the public funding o f HEIs, building on the recommendations concerning public
financing set out in the most recent joint Government-Bank Public Expenditure Review
(April 2005). Technical assistance will provide policy advice and capacity buildingthat
result in the Government: (a) developing policy options and recommendations on the
allocation o f public expenditure across public and non-public HEIs; and (b) developing
policy options and recommendations on student tuition fees and financial assistance for
students from disadvantaged backgrounds, such as fee waivers.




                                             32

Sub-Component 1.3 (US$ 1.2 million), to be implementedby the MOET's GDETA, will
support the measurement o f two dimensions o f quality: quality o f students at entry and
quality o f services provided by HEIs. Technical assistance will provide policy advice and
capacity building that result in the Government: (a) developing policy options and
recommendations on a set o f minimum standards against which public and non-public
HEIs can be accredited and on the establishment o f an independent accreditation agency
to reinforce these standards by auditing the internal quality assurance procedures in the
HEIs; and (b) developing policy options and recommendations on the HE1admissions
system.

Component 2: Capacity Building for University Teaching and Research (US$ 61.4
million)

Component 2 i s designedto strengthen teaching and research inVietnamese universities,
by buildingresearch capacity, improving the quality and relevance of university teaching
and research, strengtheninginstitutional management and the implementation o f quality
assurance, and supporting integration between university teaching and research. This
component aims to strengthen linkages between universities and the productive sector, as
well as national, regional and international cooperation in university teaching and
research.     Component 2 has two Sub-Components: 2.1 (Capacity Building for
Universities); 2.2 (Teaching andResearch Innovation Grants [TRIGs]).

Sub-Component 2.1 (US$ 1.4 million) offers training and capacity building to all
designated or eligible for a TRIG under Sub-component 2.2 (below). The first will focus
on management skills (including procurement and financial management) in universities
receiving and implementingthe TRIG sub-projects. The second and third aim to support
the demand o f the autonomous universities that will emerge as a result o f the policy
reforms developed under Component 1 above: Leadership and Management skills; and
institutional quality assurance plans (including the carrying out o f regular surveys, e.g.
Graduate Tracer Surveys, as a management monitoring tool). Capacity building under
this program, will take the form o f training workshops and seminars, but may include
other forms o f technical assistance such as mentoring or twinning arrangements and study
tours for selected staff.

Sub-Component 2.2 (US$ 60.0 million) allocates TRIGs to support building and
strengthening capacity o f universities in research, and teaching, by establishing closer
links between research, teaching, industry and the community. TRIGs will be allocated
using a peer-review process based on transparent and objective criteria. TRIGs will be
organized under two groups. Group One concentrates the bulk o f TRIG funds on "major"
universities as designated by GOV; Group Two guarantees a small allocation for "equity"
universities located in disadvantaged regions. Grants will be used for human resources
and professional development o f university academic staff, improvement o f teaching and
research infrastructure, support for research projects and for (national and international)
cooperation inteaching, research and industry. For example, TRIG sub-projects may: (i)
enhance competence and skills o f academics in research and teaching, support external
accreditation and international recognition, and build institutional systems to support



                                             33

teaching, learning and research; (ii) enhance university teaching and learning capacity,
and to link research to teaching and learning, and provide incentives to use research
findings and methodologies to improve the content, modes o f instruction and delivery,
and assessment methods inundergraduate and postgraduate courses; (iii)       develop strong
linkages between universities, research institutions, and the productive sector, and social
and community organizations in Vietnam; and (iv) support the internationalization o f
research and teaching in universities inthe form o f twinning, collaborative research, and
sponsorship to achieve international recognition in teaching and research standards, and
quality through international cooperationprograms.

Component3: ProjectManagement,MonitoringandEvaluation(US$4.3 million)

The aim o f Component 3 is to support and ensure a smooth and effective implementation
o f the project. This component covers both project coordination (including planning,
procurement, financial management and communications) as well as project M&E.
Under this Component, the MOET will also develop the design and prepare
documentation for the follow-on HERSP DPL.

Sub-Component 3.1: Administration and Management (US$ 3.2 million) provides
operational support to the HEP2 team, notably in the areas o f information flows,
coordination, administration, financial management andprocurement.

Sub-Component 3.2: Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 1.1 million), managed by the
M&E Coordinator, will follow HEP2 implementation progress and development
objective. In addition, the M&E Coordinator, with the support o f the Project Director,
will supervise the TRIG evaluation study and other technical assistance offered in the
areas o fM&E.

Table A4-1: Project Components, Sub-Components and Activities

Sub-comp 1.1     Governance
                 Organization and governance
                 Regulatory frameworks: (i)   integration o f research and teaching, and
                 (ii) sectorinvestment
                     private
                 Higher educationmanagement and policy information system
                 (HEMPIS)
Sub-comp 1.2     Financing
                 Public funding for higher education
                 Student tuition fees and financial assistance
Sub-comp 1.3     Quality Assurance
                 Accreditation and quality culture
                 Admissions systems




                                            34

Sub-comp 2.I       Capacity Buildingfor Universities
                   TRIG sub-project management
                   Universityleadership andmanagement
                   Institutional quality assurance
Sub-comp 2.2       Teachingand Research Innovation Grants (TRIGs)
                   Group 1:Major universities
                   Group 2: Universities indisadvantaged regions

Sub-como 3.1       Administration and Manaaement
Sub-comp 3.2       Monitoring and Evaluation

Table A4-2: Teaching and E search Innovation Grants: D sign Summary
                                   Group iUniversities               Group 2 Universities
Total amount of grants             US$ 55.0 million                  US$ 5.0 million
Credit share                       USs49.5 million                   USS4.5 million
Counterpart share                  US$ 5.5 million                   US$ 0.5 million
                                   paid by universities              paid by GOV
Eligibility criteria                "Key universities" as            Public universities located
                                    designated by Decision           inGOV's "priority poverty
                                    NO.1269/CP-KG                    reduction regions"
                                    universities awarded a
                                    QIG-C3' under HEP1
Number of eligible                  17                               5
universities                       (see Tables A#-3 &A#-#)           (see TableA#-5)
Maximum want amount                US$ 5.0 million                   USs2.0 million
Expected average grant             US$ 3.2 million                   US$ 1.O million
amount
Proposal                           A program (no longer than 45 monthsimplementation),
                                   consisting of a prioritized list o fmodules, with each
                                   moduledescribed andcosted separately (plus up-to-date
                                   strategic plan), inaccordance with TRIG Proposal
                                   Application Form. The program must aim to improve the
                                   quality o fteachindlearning through change in
                                   curriculum, teaching methods and research. The proposal
                                   must include budget,performance criteria and provision
                                   for financial audit, as well as information on gender and
                                   ethnicity equity, environmental protection, procurement
                                   capacity and financial management capacity.




                        ~~




30QIG-C is the highest level and final roundofthe HEPl university grants scheme.


                                                  35

Assessment Criteria              (i)Fitwithuniversity's StrategicPlan;
                                 (ii)Academicquality;
                                 (iii) impact(intermsofperformancecriteria),
                                      Likely
                                      with strong emphasis on change incurriculum,
                                      teaching methods and research;
                                 (ii)Value-for-money; and
                                 (iii)Feasibility.
Assessment Process               (i)Panelreviewsproposalandmakesrecommendation,
                                      either accepting entire program, or accepting
                                      modules inorder o fpriority as set by the university
                                      (not as set bypanel), or rejecting entire program;
                                 (ii)PanelmakesrecommendationtoVice-Ministerin
                                      charge o f Project;
                                 (iii)Vice-Minister endorses recommendation;
                                 (iv) MOET's DPFreviewsproposal (including
                                      procurement plan) ONLY for procedural compliance,
                                      and submits investment decisions to Minister;
                                 (v) Ministero fEducationand Training issues approval
                                      o f the investment decisions.
Assessment Panel                 9 members:                         7 members:
Members will formally            0   5 leading academic                 5 leading academic
recuse themselves on any         staff from Vietnamese              staff from Vietnamese
proposal where they have         universities (no more than         universities (none from
potential for conflict o f       four from Group 1                  Group 2 universities);
interest                         universities);                         2 prominent persons
                                     2 international                from businesshndustry and
                                 academic staff with                science communities
                                 experience ingrant
                                 proposal evaluation and/or
                                 higher education
                                 management (for Group 1
                                 only);
                                     2 prominent persons
                                 from businesshdustry and
                                 science cornmunitie~~l
PerformanceCriteria




3'E.g. NISTPASS (http://www.nistpass.gov.vn),Central Institute for Economic Management
(http://www.ciem.org.vn),Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry(http://www.vcci.com.vn),
Vietnam Union o f Science and Technology Associations (http://www.vusta.org.vn).


                                                 36

 Eligibleexpenses            Consultant services (incl. administrative support and
                             audit); training (incl. seminars, workshops, etc.); goods
                             (except vehicles); small civil works (ONLY
                             refurbishment o f existing teaching, research or
                             administrative spaces within existing campus site) and
                             operational costs.
 Ineligibleexpenses          Civil works other than small civil works mentioned
                             above; vehicles; salary payments. (Recurrent costs, such
                             as salary supplements, are ineligible for Bank funding,
                             but may bepaidfor under the sub-project out o f
                             counterpart funds.)
 Creditdisbursement          100%o f eligible expenditures (which expenditures are
 percentage                  equivalent to not more than 90% o f each sub-prgject's
                             total cost)
 Credit disbursement         Credit funds transferred to each university on a 90-day
 method                      advance basis, with the first advance amount for the
                             estimated expenditures and cash flows for the initial six
                             months as per the annual work plans andprocurement
                             plans. For each subsequent quarter, the universitywill
                             submit an advance request with (i)   quarterlyIFRs
                             documenting expenditures (ii)    Project Bank Account
                             Reconciliation (iii) estimate o f advance requirement for
                             next six months expenditure costs, and (iv) statement o f
                             expenditures or full documentation for the previous
                             quarter actual expenditures.
 Performancemonitoring Part o fproject management structure; PMUassesses and
                             certifies progress on the basis o freporting and site visits;
                             Bank supervision team monitors the Recipient's
                             performance monitoring system(but does not monitor
                             university performance directly); overall result evaluated
                             through independent study.

1Table A4-3 : Group 1: National & Regional Universities
 NationalRegional Universities (7)                                         IQIG "Key
                                                                              c    I Uni"  I
 Hanoi National U.                    DHQu6c GiaHN                           Yes     Yes
 HCMC National U.                     DHQu6c GiaTPHCM                        Yes     Yes
 Can Tho U.                           DHC&nTho                               Yes     Yes
 DanangU.                             DHDaNing                               N o     Yes
 HueU.                                DHHue                                  Yes     Yes
 Thai NguyenU.                        DHThai Nguyzn                          N o     Yes
 VinhU.                               DHVinh                                 Yes     N o




                                            37

 Communications
 HCMC U.Economics                TnrbngDHKinhte TPHCM         No    Yes
IHCMCU.U.Education               TnrbnnDHS u DhamHN          1N o I Yes
                                             I  .
 HCMC      Medicine& Pharmacy    Tnrbni DHY Dugc TPHCM        Yes   Yes


 UniversitiesinDisadvantagedRegion(5)                          Location
 Tav Bac U.                     1Tnrbne:DHTiiv Bac             Son L a
                                      Y
 Tay NguyenU.                    TnrbngDHTiiy Nguyen           DakLak
 DongThap EducationU.            TnrbngCD S uPhamDbngThap     DongThap
 An GiangU.                      TnrbngDHAn Giang             An Giang
 TraVinh U.                      TnrbnnDHTra Vinh             TraVinh




                                      38

                                        Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                VIETNAM: SECOND HIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT

Table A5-1: Project Costs by Currency
Component                                    Local                      Foreign                 Total
                                          US$ million                US$ million           US$ million
1.Capacity Building for                        1.15                       3.34                  4.49
PolicyDevelopment
2. Capacity Building for                       0.44                      60.83                  61.27
University Teaching and
Research
3. Project Management,                         1.27                       2.69                  3.96
Monitoring andEvaluation
TotalBaselineCost                              2.86                      66.86                  69.72
  Physical Contingencies                       0.12                       0.24                   0.36
  Price Contingencies                          0.18                       0.24                  0.42
        TotalProjectCosts3'                    3.16                      67.34                  70.50
 Total FinancingReauired                       3.16                      67.34                  70.50

Table A5-2: Project Costs by Source
Component                       Credit          Grant                    Counterpart                  Total
                                  US$            US$                     US$ million                  US$
                                million        million                                               million
                                                                 GOV         HEIS     Sub-
                                                                                      Total
1. Capacity Building                  1.28           3.41          0.10                   0.10           4.79
for Policy
Development
2. Capacity Building                54.00             1.39         0.50       5.50        6.00         61.39
for University
Teaching and
Research 33
3. Project                           4.12                 -        0.20          -        0.20     I     4.32
Management,
Monitoring and
Evaluation
Total                               59.40            4.80          0.80       5.50        6.30         70.50
Share by Source (%)                84.3%            6.8%          1.1%        7.8%      8.9%          100.0%




32Identifiable taxes and duties are US$ 6.14 million, and the total project cost, net o f taxes, i s US$ 64.36
million. Therefore, the share o f project cost net o f taxes i s 91.3 percent.
33See Table A5-3 for breakdown of this Sub-component by Group.


                                                        39

 Table A5-3: Project Cost of Component 2 by Source
 Sub-Components                 Credit       Grant                  Counterpart                  Total
                                 US$          US$                  US$ million                    US$
                               million       million                                            million
                                                           GOV         HEIS        Sub-
                                                                                  Total
 2.1 Capacity Building              0.00            1.39     0.00             -       0.00            1.39
 for Universities
 2.2. Teaching and                54.00                 -    0.50         5.50        6.00          60.00
 ResearchInnovation
 Grants
   TRIG Group 1                   49.50                 -    0.00         5.50        5.50          55.00
   TRIG Group 2                     4.50                -    0.50                     0.50           5.00
 Sub-Total                        54.00             1.39     0.50         5.50        6.00          61.39

 Table A5-4: Expenditures by Source (including contingencies)

, Expenditure Category            Credit        Grant               Counterpart                   Total
                                   US$           US$                US$ million                   US$
                                 million      million                                           million
                                                            GOV         HEIS        Sub-
                                                                                   Total
 Goods                               0.78                                                            0.78
 Consultants' Services               3.16            4.25          -                                 7.41
 Training/Workshops                  0.56            0.55                      -                     1.11
 TRIGs (Group 1)                    49.50                                  5.50       5.50          55.00
 TRIGs (Group 2)                     4.50                 -    0.50                   0.50           5.00
 Incremental Operating               0.90                                                            0.90
 Costs34
 Recurrent Costs35                                        -    0.30                   0.30           0.30
      Total Project Costs           59.40            4.80      0.80        5.50       6.30          70.50
 Total Financing                    59.40            4.80      0.80        5.50       6.30          70.50
 Reauired




 34Including supervision costs, consumables, utilities, communication, printingmaterials, translation fee,
maintenance, bank charges etc.
 35Including Government staff salary supplements and office rental.


                                                      40

                        Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
              VIETNAM: SECONDHIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT

Generalprojectmanagement

The project management structure builds off o f the experience with HEPl and i s
designed to further the long-term sustainability o f the project.

Executing agency. MOET will be the executing agency for the project and the Minister o f
Education and Training will be the executive authority on the project. The Vice-Minister
for Higher Education will have managerial responsibility for the project and will be in
charge o f overseeing the Project Director.

Project Advisory Committee. MOET will establish an inter-ministerial Project Advisory
Committee to advise on the implementation o f the project and to represent the views and
interests of the various ministries and stakeholders. This committee will be chaired by the
Minister of Education and Training, and will include members not only from MOET but
also from Ministry of Science and Technology, Ministry of Labor, Invalids, and Social
Affairs, Ministry o fAgriculture and Rural Development, Ministryo f Finance, Ministry o f
Planning and Investment, State Bank o f Vietnam, and Office o f Government, along with
individuals drawn from key industry and academia. The committee will convene at least
twice a year.

Senior Management Group. A Senior Management Group, comprising five members,
will ensure coordination o f project activities, with particular responsibility for sharing
information and sequencing activities. The members are: (i)      Project Director; (ii)
                                                                                      TRIG
Manager;     (iii)Governance Coordinator (Sub-component              1.1); (iv) Financing
Coordinator (Sub-Component 1.2); and (v) Quality Assurance Coordinator (Sub-
component 1.3).

Project Management Unit. Within MOET, project implementationwill be supported by a
PMU, led by a Project Director reporting to the Vice-Minister for Higher Education. All
departments o f MOET implementing Component 1 - DHE (Sub-Component 1.l),              DPF
(Sub-Component 1.2) and GDETA (Sub-Component 1.3) - will report to the Project
Director regarding project activities under their sub-components.        Each o f the three
Component 1 sub-components will be lead by a Coordinator. Along with the Project
Director, the PMU will also consist o f coordinators for financial management,
procurement, M&E, and administration to implement Component 3. These officers will
work closely with the DPF, staff implementing Component 2 and staff in individual
universities. The P M U will also consist o f a TRIG Manager and staff/consultants in
charge of implementing Component 2. These officers will work closely with staff from
universities andmember o f the TRIG panels.




                                             41

Financial Management Support Team. A firm will be contracted by P M U to provide
support inthe areas o f financial management. This firm will provide support to the PMU
and also provide capacity building to the Financial Management Coordinator and
assistants to monitor all financial transactions.

Internal Auditor. A MOET staff will be appointed as HEP2's Internal Auditor. The
Internal Auditor will review and monitor the internal control systems in place, examine
the quality and reliability o f financial statements, review payments and transactions in
compliance with laws, regulations, and project guidelines. Whenever necessary, the
internal auditor will offer recommendations for areas o f improvement.      The Internal
Auditor will report directly to the Vice-Minister in charge o f the project. The Internal
Auditor will work closely with a consultant who will provide capacity buildingduringthe
first year o f project implementation and to ensure that the internal audit function i s
performed correctly from the beginningo f the project.

Specificimplementationarrangements

Specific implementation arrangements for the three Components are as follows:

Component 1: Capacity Buildingfor Policy Development. Because line managers within
MOET did not have implementingresponsibility under HEP1, it did not build capacity
within the ministries to implement these reforms. As a result, a key component o f the
project i s that line departments within MOET will have full implementing responsibility
for capacity building and policy reforms under this component. DHE will be responsible
for the implementation o f capacity building and policy reforms in higher education
organization, structure and governance (Sub-component 1.1). DPF will be responsible
for establishing a renovated financial system for the higher education sector which
facilitates institutional autonomy o f HEIs (Sub-Component 1.2). Lastly, GDETA will be
responsible for furthering developing the quality assurance and accreditation systems in
the higher education sector (Sub-component 1.3).

The Minister o f Education and Training, inconsultation with the Vice-Minister o fHigher
Education, will appoint three senior department staff members as full-time coordinator o f
the reform activities who will also be responsible for ensuring that department staff
participates in capacity building exercises. The Governance Coordinator (Sub-
component 1.l), Financing Coordinator (Sub-component 1.2); and the Quality
                     the
Assurance Coordinator (Sub-component 1.3) will report to the Project Director and liaise
with other members o f respective departments regarding implementation activities.
Consultants needed to assist departments in technical assistance and capacity building
will be procured by the PMU, in consultation with the MOET departments and the P M U
will also manage the disbursements for these contracts. As members o f the Senior
Management Group, their roles are to facilitate information flow between concerned
departments, monitor periodically the progress o f working groups, and manage the
implementation o f activities under their respective sub-components.




                                              42

Component 2: Capacity Building for University Teaching and Research. Within the
PMU, the TRIG Manager will be responsible for managing the implementation o f the
capacity building activities for universities as well as overseeing the process o f awarding
and implementingTRIGs. To qualify for a TRIG, universities will be required to develop
an updated strategic plan for their institution, a TRIG proposal and a TRIG
implementation agreement.

Those universities who are awarded TRIGs will need to establish a TMU within their
institution. The unit will be responsible for the procurement, financial management and
monitoring under their TRIG and will work with the Manager o f this component in the
PMUto implement their TRIG. Staff consultants in the P M U will also work to support
universities to implement their TRIG.

A TRIG assessmentpanelwill be established under the project, assessingproposals from
universities in Group 1 and Group 2 respectively. The panel will consist o f a core of
higher education policy experts and key academics and scientists in Vietnam and the
Group 1panel will also include two memberswith international expertise.

A panel pool, consisting o f acknowledged national and international disciplinary
specialists, will also be created to review proposals intheir specific disciplines and advise
the respective panel on issues o f discipline standards in the TRIG proposals. Procedures
will be inplace to avoid conflicts o f interest and inno one case will a panel member or a
panel pool discipline expert assess a proposal from their own university or a proposal that
they have been involved in developing. Applications will be received and registered by
the PMUandthe panel core members will meet to determine which panel-pool specialists
should be selected for a discipline assessment o f each proposal. The assessment process
will include interviews with the universities' key scientific and administrative personnel,
along with any necessary site visits. The final TRIG approval will be made by the
Minister o f Education and Training, on the recommendation o f the panels. Successful
applicants will have up to 45 months to implement their projects.

Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

The PMU will be responsible for the overall management o f the project, including
procurement, administration, M&E, and financial management. A M&E Coordinator will
also be hired under the PMU to monitor project indicators. The PMU will hire a
consultant to conduct the TRIGs evaluation. Inaddition, the consultant will work with the
P M U and departments with MOET to coordinate data collection, including baseline data,
and provide training inM&E.




                                              43

c,
d
L



I
d
a
0
.r
c,
d
N
.I

d
a

0
E




        ./"

      .................
                    ...'.'
                         ....'

           Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
              VIETNAM: SECONDHIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT

FinancialManagementAssessment Summary

The project's financial management capacity assessment was performed inOctober 2005
and updated in December 2005 (with a visit to several universities), January 2007 and
March 2007. The financial management arrangements o f HEP2 will be similar to those
o f HEP1 with some additional measures to strengthen controls, address management
needs, and better meet the Bank's requirements for project financial management.
Particular attention i s paid to enhancing PMU's coordination, monitoring and supervision
functions, streamlining reporting format, improving assets management system and
aligning budgeting process. The arrangements also focus on enhancing TMUs' reporting
and budgetingfunctions.

The project financial management risk is assessed as substantial, due to the decentralized
financial management and to weaknesses in MOET's and universities' financial
management capacities, a weak internal audit hnction and limitations in financial
reporting. Amongst the 22 universities implementing sub-projects are five universities
with no experience in Bank-funded projects.       In addition, it is unlikely that HEPl
financial management staff will be appointed to the HEP2 PMU.

CountryIssues

The findings o f 2001 Country Financial Accountability Assessment on Vietnam
concluded that the public financial management system represented some level o f
fiduciary risk. However, the recent Public Expenditure Review and Integrated Fiduciary
Assessment recognized improvements intransparency and accountability arising from: (i)
a new audit law, dated M a y 2005, which will enhance oversight by the National
Assembly and the Provincial People's Councils over public finances and increase public
access to information on government finances; (ii) new decree on independent audit
                                                    the
(March 2004) which regulates the status o f auditors and audit firms and define the value
o f audit results; (iii) accounting law (2003) which establishes the legal framework for
                       the
Vietnamese Accounting Standards for public and private sectors on the basis o f
international standards.

However, the Public Expenditure Review and Integrated Fiduciary Assessment identified
areas for improvement in public financial management, including: (i)    implementingthe
legislative frameworks which are largely in place; (ii) strengthening the effectiveness o f
the State Audit o f Vietnam; (iii)streamlining the internal control framework; (iv)
building financial management capacity, particularly at the sub-national level; and (v)
adopting international public sector accounting standards.




                                            45

RiskAnalysis and Mitigation Measures

The "project inherent risk" is assessed as substantial primarily due to: (i) risk that
                                                                                the
GOV, through MOET and TRIG-recipient universities, maybe unable to meet its funding
obligations due to budgetary constraints; (ii) high number o f universities - 22 - that
                                                the
will implement a TRIG-financed sub-project (Sub-Component 2.2) with decentralized
financial management.

The "project control risk" is assessed as substantial due to: (i)  MOET's limited financial
management capacity and inexperience in project planning and budgeting processes to
ensure transparent financial management to an acceptable standard and to provide
acceptable consolidated IFRs on a timely basis; (ii)      universities receiving TRIGs may
have insufficient financial management capacity to manage sub-projects to acceptable
financial management standards and to provide timely and reliable financial accounting
and reporting;    (iii)weaknesses of the internal audit function within MOET; (iv)
weaknesses in financial reporting; and (v) the accounting software o f MOET may not
satisfy all reportingrequirements o fthe Bank.

To mitigate the risks:
    the Bank will seek early commitment from MOF to make counterpart funds available
    throughout the implementation o f the project, while TRIG-recipient Group 1
    universities which are required to make their own contributions will set out their
    commitment to provide counterpart funds inthe TRIG Agreements;
    the PMUwill hire: (i) external Financial Management Support Team to help P M U
                             an
    staff carry out financial management tasks under the supervision o f the PMU's
    Financial Management Coordinator; and (ii)an Internal Auditor reporting to the
    Vice-Minister incharge o f the project;
    the PMU's Financial Management Coordinator, the Internal Auditor, Accountant and
    Cashier will be appointed by effectiveness, with qualifications and experience
    acceptable to the Bank;
    at least one full-time accountant and one full-time cashier will be appointed in each
    university's TMU with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank before
    the first TRIG disbursementto the relevant university;
    Bank specialists will train the project accountants in Bank financial management and
    disbursement policies and procedures within four months after effectiveness, the
    Financial Management Support Team will provide on-going capacity building as part
    o f its university liaison function, and general financial management capacity building
    will beprovided to TRIG-recipient universities under Sub-Component 2.1;
    a Financial Management Manual and TRIG Manual will be submitted to the Bank in
    final draft form and, once deemed acceptable to the Bank, finalized and adopted by
    effectiveness;
    the Financial Management Manual will include IFR templates and will describe the
    project accounting system (including the operation o f the accounting software to be
    used by the project, internal controls and financial management reporting and
    monitoring requirements).
    publication o f financial statements and disbursement information will be encouraged.


                                              46

If carried out successfully, the proposed mitigating measures will reduce the project
overall risk to moderate (which risk level i s considered acceptable to the Bank).

FinancialManagementArrangementsand System

HEP2's financial system, procedures and internal controls will be documented in the
Financial Management Manual; the financial management arrangements and procedures
for the TRIG sub-projects will in addition be documented in the TRIG Manual. The
Financial Management Manual and TRIG Manual must be acceptable to the Bank and
prepared before negotiation and finalized and adopted by effectiveness. The PMU will
update the Manual regularly to take into account any changes in procedures with prior
approval o f the updates from the Bank.

Organizational structure and staffing. The project financial management system will be
aligned with the implementation arrangements described in Annex 6. A P M U will be
established within MOET to coordinate, monitor and supervise project implementation
activities at participating universities. General financial management tasks, which require
appropriate computerized accounting software, include budgeting, managing fund flows
(through designated and project accounts), accounting (in line with an acceptable chart o f
accounts), reporting (in the form o f IFRs) and internal control. More specific financial
management work, carried out initially by the external Financial Management Support
Team under the supervision o f the PMU's Financial Management Coordinator, would
involve: (i)  executing central financial management functions as set out in the Financial
Management Manual; (ii)supporting universities' TMU financial management staff to
carry out TRIG financial management hnctions as set out in the Financial Management
Manual and the TRIG Manual; (iii)         supporting the liaison between the PMU and the
TMUs and between the P M U and MOET's DPF on financial management matters; and
(iv) providing training and mentoring to the P M U and TMU financial management staff.
The Financial Management Support Team's tasks should be designed such that over the
project life the financial management functions are executed increasingly by the PMU
and TMU financial management staff (as a result of capacity building activities) and that
the role o f the Financial Management Support Team moves from one o f executing tasks
and training to one of supervising and monitoring. The number o f PMU and TMU
accountants will depend on the volume o f work, with different accountants ensuring the
segregation o f duties within the financial management function.

Budgeting. The PMU will coordinate the budgeting process, especially for the activities
that require counterpart funding from GOV.           These tasks will include aligning the
project's annual budgeting process with GOV's annual budgeting cycles, and ensuring
that necessary approval is obtained and funds are available for the preparation and
implementation o f project activities. The PMU will ensure that counterpart funds are
properly budgeted for in the MOET's annual budgets and will monitor the adequacy o f
university counterpart funding through the IFRs that TRIG-recipient universities will
submit quarterly.




                                              47

Internal control.    HEP2's internal control system will adopt the GOV's current
arrangements and requirements, and be aligned with the Bank's integrated internal
control framework. Key issues in the internal control function are: (i)     segregation of
duties; (ii)independent review; (iii) reporting channels; and (iv) remedial actions and
follow-up.    The P M U will set the cash-on-hand at a reasonable level and perform
monthly bank reconciliation for designated accounts, with the TMUs proceeding likewise
for project accounts. Consolidation o f IFRs on a semi-annual basis will support HEP2's
internal control oversight by providing project wide information on financial performance
and reconciliations as part of project monitoring reporting. Publication o f financial
statement and disbursement information on grants will be encouraged.

Payments to consultants, suppliers and contractors should only be made by bank transfer
or check, with cash payment to be used only for small purchases. Fixed assets will be
monitored by an identification tag and a fixed asset register that provides information on
asset identification and description, date o f purchase, value, reference to supporting
document, location and status. Verification o f existence, condition and use o f project
assetswill be requiredat least annually.

Accounting. HEP2 will use a chart o f accounts, set up to satisfy the management and
reporting needs o f the project. The project accounting policies and procedures will be
based on International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) and international
best practices.   The basis o f accounting will be cash. The project adopts the legal
supporting documents and filing system currently usedby GOV.

Accounting software. The PMUwill install by effectiveness a computerized accounting
software capable o f accounting for the project's financial transactions and balances and
generating consolidated IFRs in the agreed formats.        TMUs may install this same
software or may use other software, provided that it i s able to properly account for the
TRIG finances and transactions and produce the requiredIFRsina timely manner.

Training. As each TRIG-recipient university joins the project, its accountant and other
financial management staff will be trained. Training will also be provided whenever
there i s any change infinancial management staff. The PMUwill coordinate the financial
management training and ensure that staff has sufficient understanding o f project
financial management arrangements and Bank's policies and procedures.

Reporting and monitoring. The PMU will be responsible for project reporting to the
Bank by way o f IFRs, which will be part o f the PMU's periodic Project Progress Reports.
The content and format o f PMU's IFRs were agreed upon during negotiations. For the
TRIG sub-projects, the universities' TMUs will maintain all project implementation and
financial records, and will submit quarterly IFRs on implementation progress and
expenditure to the PMU. TMU IFRswill be ina format designed by the PMU and agreed
by the Bank before the first TRIG disbursement to any university. The submission of
quarterly IFRswill be a TRIG Agreement requirement.




                                            48

For management purposes, the project will produce consolidated semi-annual IFRs inthe
format agreed with the Bank, and submit them to the Bank within 45 days from the end
o f the period under review. IFRswill cover all project activities and all sources o f funds
including counterpart funds. They be aligned with GOV's Aligned Monitoring Tool and
will report sources and uses of funding, project expenditure by project components,
disbursement categories, sources o f funding and spending units against budget for the
period under review and accumulated from the beginning o f the project. They will also
provide information on procurement progress and contract execution by implementing
agencies, along with explanatory notes on progress, issues and remedy actions. Each
participating university will prepare its own quarterly IFRs, information from which will
be incorporated into the PMU's semi-annual IFRs.

Audit arrangements: internal audit.         An Internal Auditor will be appointed by
effectiveness, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. The Internal
Auditor will report, directly to the Vice-Minister in charge o f project. The Internal
Auditor's terms of reference and internal audit work plan will be submitted to the Bank
for approval. Each internal audit reports and a semi-annual summary o f audits completed
compared to plan, audit findings and recommendations and follow up o f previous
findings, will be submitted to the Vice Minister with copies to the Project Director and
the inter-ministerial Project Advisory Committee. These reports also will be made
available to the Bank and external auditors. Besides purchasing training for the Internal
Auditor, the PMU may hire a consultant during the first year to work with the Internal
Auditor to help h i d h e r develop: (i)an internal audit strategy; (ii)scope o f work; (iii)
                                                                       a
an internal audit work plan; (iv) an audit methodology; (iv) and internal audit reporting
templates. The consultant would participate in internal audit missions inthe first year o f
project implementation. This on-the-job training will provide capacity buildingwhile still
ensuring that internal audit function i s operational from project launch.

Audit arrangements: external audit.         Since State Audit o f Vietnam has resource
limitations for auditing donor funded projects annually, HEP2's financial statements will
be audited by an independent external audit firm with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank. The audit terms o f reference will be reviewedand agreed by the
Bank before the auditor i s contracted, to ensure consistency with its policies and
procedures on financial audit. The audit will be conducted under International Standards
on Auditing and applicable Vietnam laws and regulations. The P M U will appoint the
independent external auditor at least three months before the end o f the financial year.

The PMU will be responsible for the preparation o f consolidated annual financial
statements for the project. The financial statements will be prepared under IPSAS (cash
basis).   The annual financial statements will be audited by the independent external
auditor and submitted to the Bank within six months from the balance sheet date. The
auditors will provide an opinion on the financial statements and produce a management
letter reporting on financial management performance, internal control and compliance
issues, and will provide relatedrecommendations and management's response.




                                              49

The project financial statementswill consist of:
    A statement of sources anduses of funds / cashreceipts andpayments.
0   The accounting policies adopted and explanatory notes such as a summary of fixed
    assets, a schedule of credit / grant withdrawals); and
0   A managementassertionthat Bank funds have beenexpendedinaccordancewith the
    intended purposes as specified in the relevant legal agreements, i.e. Financing
    Agreement and Grant Agreement.

Ad hoc reports. The PMUmay be requiredto produce additional IFRson an ad hoc basis,
such as during supervision missions.

FundFlows andDisbursementArrangements

Table A7-1: Allocation of Credit and Grant Proceeds
                                                          Amount of the Percentageof
                                           Financing       Financing    Expenditures
                                           Allocated        Allocated  to be Financed
                                         fromCredit        from Grant   (inclusiveof
                                           3,5( 50,000
                                                S W           (US$)        Taxes)
Eligible Expenditures for:                                                  100%
(a) goods under Components 1and
3, and Sub-Component 2.1;
(b) consultants' services, training
andworkshops, including study
tours under Component 3;
(c) study tours under Component 1
and Sub-Component 2.1;and (d)
incremental operating costs under
Components 1and 3, and Sub-
component 2.1
TRIGs under Sub-Component 2.2:                                          100% of the
(a) for Group 1universities               32,500,000                      amount o f
(b) for Group2 universities                2,950,000                        TRIG
                                                                          disbursed
                                                            4,800,000       100%
workshops (but excluding study
tours) under Component 1and
Sub-ComDonent 2.1                     I   39,000,000        4,800,000

Project funding will comprise an IDA Credit of SDR 39.0 million (US$ 59.4 million
equivalent), a Japan PHRD Co-financing Grant o f US$ 4.8 million (TF056736), and
counterpart financing of US$ 6.3 million (to be sharedbetweenGOV and TRIG-recipient
universities).   Credit and Grant proceeds will finance taxes under all eligible
expenditures.     Expected effectiveness         date i s November 1, 2007. Expected




                                                50

implementation duration i s from November 1, 2007 to December 31, 2011. Expected
closing date i s June 30, 2012.

Fund Flows.       GOV's counterpart contribution will be channeled through the State
Treasury System. There will be three designated accounts: one for the Credit funds for
TRIGs (Sub-Component 2.2), one for the Credit finds for the other sub-components, and
one for the Grant funds. These designated accounts will be managed by the PMU at a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank with the capacity to produce monthly bank
statements. TRIG amounts will be transferred fi-om the TRIG designated account or by
direct payment (upon receipt o f a withdrawal application from the PMU) to the relevant
university's US$ project bank account, which will also be opened at a commercial bank
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (including appropriate measures against
set-off, seizure and attachments and the capacity to produce monthly bank statements).
The transfer and use of the TRIG amounts will be done in accordance with the TRIG
Manual. Universities will be responsible for managing the flow o f funds to suppliers and
beneficiaries o f the TRIG that they implement.

The designated accounts ceiling will be: US$ 10,000,000 for the Credit designated
account for TRIGs (Sub-Component 2.2); US$ 380,000 for the Credit designated account
for the other sub-components; and US$ 340,000 for the Grant designated account. The
ceiling o f the designated accounts may vary duringthe life o f the project basedon project
implementation cash flow needs. To facilitate project implementation, withdrawal
applications will be allowed at the minimum value o f US$ 2,000,000 for the Credit
designated account for TRIGs (Sub-Component 2.2); US$ 76,000 for the Credit
designated account for the other sub-components; and US$ 68,000 for the Grant
designated account.

Disbursement methods. The project will use the following disbursement methods:
0   Reimbursement. The Bank may reimbursethe Recipient for expenditures eligible for
    financing pursuant to the Financing Agreement and the Grant Agreement ("eligible
    expenditures") that the Recipient has pre-financed from its own resources.
0   Advance. The Bank may advance credit proceeds into a designated account of the
    Recipient to finance eligible expenditures as they are incurred and for which
    supporting documents will beprovided at a later date.
    Direct pavment. The Bank may make payments, at the Recipient's request, directly
    to a thirdparty for eligible expenditures.
    SBecial commitment. The Bank may pay amounts to a third party for eligible
    expenditures under special commitments entered into, in writing, at the Recipient's
    request and on terms and conditions agreed betweenthe Bank and the Recipient.

Reporting on eligible expenditures paid from the designated accounts. Withdrawal
applications reporting eligible expenditures paid from the designated accounts will be
submittedmonthly, with the following documentation:
    Use o f statements o f expenditures. For goods or non-consulting services, services
    provided by consulting firms, and services provided by individual consultants,
    training and incremental operating costs costing less than US$ 150,000 equivalent per



                                             51

    contract, withdrawals under the Financing Agreement and Grant Agreement will be
    made on the basis o f Statements o f Expenditure. The relatedpayment documents will
    be made available for the required audits, as well as to the Bank supervision missions
    upon request.
0   Other expenditures. All other expenditures above the thresholds for the use o f
    statements o f expenditureswill be submittedon the basis o f full documentationwhich
    will include copies o f receipts, supplier invoices, and bills o f lading as well as no
    objection letters when required.

The PMUis responsible for preparing and submittingwithdrawal applications and
submittingthe supporting documentationto report on eligible expenditures to the Bank
for the project.

TRIGdisbursement method. Credit funds will be transferred to each university on a 90-
day advance basis, with the first advance amount for the estimated expenditures and cash
flows for the initial six months as per the annual work plans and procurement plans. For
each subsequent quarter, the university will submit an advance request with (i)   quarterly
IFRsdocumenting expenditures (ii) Bank Account Reconciliation (iii)
                                     Project                                    estimate o f
advance requirement for next six months expenditure costs, and (iv) statement o f
expenditures or full documentation (as above) for the previous quarter actual
expenditures.

The disbursement conditions for the TRIG funds will be set out inthe TRIGAgreements.
TRIG-recipient universities will provide adequate supporting documentation for
expenditures from the grant to the PMUwhen requestingfurther advances and finalizing
the financial completion o f grants.

Retroactive financing. Provision will be made for retroactive financing o f consultants'
services for TRIG evaluation, workshops including launching workshop, office
equipment (furniture and computers) and operating costs.          Payments made for the
identified activities to a cumulative limit o f US$ 100,000 carried out after the date o f
appraisal completion will be eligible for reimbursement through retroactive financing,
US$ 80,000 under the Credit andUS$20,000 under the Grant.




                                            52

FinancialManagementAction Plan

Table A7- 1: Financial Management Action 'lan
                  Actions                      Responsibility          Dateof
                                                                     Completion
Finalize and adopt FinancialManagement            MOET              Effectiveness
Manual and a TRIG Manual (withinthe
Proiect ODerations Manual)
Appoint Financial Management                      MOET              Effectiveness
Coordinator, Accountant, Cashier and
Internal Auditor to P M U with
qualifications and experience acceptable
to the Bank
Train PMUinBank requirementsand                Bank FMstaff        4 months after
procedures                                                          Effectiveness
Identifyand hire an external firm to assist       MOET            January 31,2008
with the financial management tasks for
the project
Set up a computerized accounting system      MOEThniversities         For PMU:
at PMUand TMUs to provide a sound                                   effectiveness;
basis for accounting and reporting                                 for TMUs: first
                                                                 TRIG disbursement
                                                                     to relevant
                                                                  university's TMU
Identifyand appoint an accountant and a         Universities         FirstTRIG
cashier at TMUs with qualifications and                            disbursementto
experience acceptable to the Bank                                      relevant
                                                                  university's TMU
Design TMU quarterly IFRs ina standard             PMU               First TRIG
format and content agreed by the Bank                              disbursement to
                                                                       relevant
                                                                  university's TMU
Appoint an independent external auditor            PMU              Three months
with qualification andexperience                                 before the financial
acceptable to the Bank                                                 year end

Supervision

Based on the financial management risk rating o f substantial, financial management
supervision will be performed twice a year by the Bank's financial management staff.
The supervision will review the project's financial management system and controls
including, but not limited to, operation o f the designated accounts and funds flows,
internal controls, reporting, internal audit coverage and findings, and follow up of
external audit findings and mission's findings. The financial management arrangements
andperformanceo fthe TRIGoperations will be reviewedduring each supervision. Each




                                           53

supervision will b e undertaken at the PMU and selected universities which are
implementing TRIG sub-projects.




                                      54

                                  Annex 8: Procurement
              VIETNAM: SECONDHIGHER EDUCATIONPROJECT

ProcurementProcedures

This project is financed out o fthree sources: (i) Credit (US$ 59.4 million), (ii)
                                                IDA                                Japan
PHRD Co-financing Grant (US$ 4.8 million), and (iii)GOV (US$ 6.3 million).             It
consists o f three components as described inAnnex 4.

For contracts financed in whole or in part by the Credit or Grant, procurement will be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines) and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 (the
Consultant Guidelines), and the provisions stipulated inthe Financing Agreement and the
Grant Agreement. For contracts procured through the National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedure, the procedures listed inthe Attachment o f Schedule 2 to the Financing
Agreement shall be applicable. The different expenditures categories are described in
general below. For each contract to be financed inwhole or inpart out o f the Credit and
Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, estimated
costs, prior-review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Recipient and
the Bank in the Procurement Plan.       The Procurement Plan will be updated at least
annually or as requested to reflect the annual project implementation needs and
institutional capacity.

InstitutionalArrangementandProcurementResponsibilities

At the national level, a PMU will be established for implementation o f the project with
staff drawn from different MOET departments and consultants hired to assist the
operation o f the PMU. The P M U belongs to and i s under direct administration and
supervision o f MOET, and will coordinate project implementation, directly implement
Component 2.1 and Component 3 activities, and provide implementation support
(including procurement) across the project. The PMU staff will include a Procurement
Coordinator and two procurement consultants who will be in charge o f HEP2
procurement. In respect o f procurement work, the P M U will (i)be responsible for
carrying out central procurement under Components 1 and 3, as well as Sub-Component
2.1; (ii)oversee and coordinate procurement activities o f the universities for TRIG sub-
projects (Sub-Component 2.2); and (iii) to the Bank.
                                         report

At the university level, a TMU will be established in each universitythat is awarded a
TRIG. Each T M U will appoint at least one procurement officer inthe respective TMU.
The TMUs will be fully responsible for independently carrying out procurement activities
under Sub-Component 2.2, including procurement planning, preparation o f bidding
documents, invitation for bids, bid evaluation and chairing o f the bid evaluation
committee, contract signing, contract management, and payment to contractors. TRIG-




                                            55

recipient universities will have a senior officer (e.g. vice-rector responsible for the sub-
project) clear and sign decisions madeby the TMU Manager.

ProcurementMethods

Procurement ofgoods. Individual contracts for goods estimated to cost equivalent US$
150,000 or more shall be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedure. Goods costing less than US$ 150,000 but equivalent o f US$ 30,000 or more
per contract may be procured on the basis o f the N C B procedure. Contracts less than
US$ 30,000 per contract may be procured through Shopping procedures based on
comparing price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers. Procurement from
UnitedNations Agencies may be used under circumstances described inparagraph 3.9 o f
the Procurement Guidelines and agreed by the Bank. In exceptional circumstances as
described inparagraphs 3.2 and 3.6 o f the Procurement Guidelines, the Limited Bidding
method and the Direct Contracting method may be respectively used subject to the
Bank's prior agreement.

For goods contracts procured under ICB, qualified domestic bidders will be eligible for a
preference equal to 15 percent o f the C P price o f goods. The domestic preference
procedures are described inAppendix 2 to the Procurement Guidelines.

For ICB goods contracts, the Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement o f Goods
issued by the Bank (May 2005 and as updated) shall be mandatory.              For contracts
applying the NCB and Shopping procedures, the Recipient may use the Sample NCB
Biddings Documents (in Vietnamese) and sample Invitation to Quote which are also
beingused on other Bank-financed projects inVietnam.

Procurement of works. Works including renovation, upgrading or refurbishment o f
existing buildings/infrastructurenot exceeding US$ 250,000 per contract are eligible to
be financed out o f the Credit. The Credit will not finance new construction however.
Individual contracts for works estimated to cost equivalent o f US$ 30,000 or more shall
beprocuredthrough National Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedure. Works costing less
than US$ 30,000 per contract may be procured through Small Works/Shopping
procedures based on comparingprice quotations from at least three qualified contractors.

Consulting services. Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method will be the
default method for selecting consulting firms. Other selection methods including Quality
Based Selection (QBS), Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) and
Single-Source Selection (SSS) will be decided on a case by case basis, at the stage o f
procurement planning and with the Bank's prior agreement. The Consultant Guidelines
shall serve as basis for decision o f the method to be applied. A Financial Management
firm and independent auditors will be selected through the Least Cost Selection (LCS)
method. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth inthe first sentence
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 5.2 through 5.3
of the Consultant Guidelines. Under circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 o f the



                                            56

Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole
-source basis with the prior approval o f the Bank.

The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (May 2004 and as updated) will be
mandatory to hire consulting firms for contracts estimated at more than US$200,000 per
contract financed by the Credit and Grant.        Shortlists o f consultants for consulting
services estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 per contract may be composed entirely
o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the
Consultants Guidelines.

Training/Workshops. Training, workshop and study tour activities will be carried out in
accordance with GOV's procedures and cost norms. Training providers for non-standard
training activities/courses, which require the training providers to design training
materials and content and deliver the courses, may need to be selected through the
selection o f consultant procedures. The specific selection method will be decided on a
case by case basis following the guidance o f the Consultant Guidelines.

Eligibility to ParticipateinBidding

State-Owned Enterprises. GOV-owned enterprises in Vietnam shall be eligible to
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially
autonomous, operate under commercial law, and are not a dependent agency o f the
Recipient or the procuring entity. In particular, state-owned enterprises under MOET's
direct supervisory authority shall be excluded from any bids for goods or services under
the project. Military or security units which belong to the Ministry o f Defense or the
MinistryofPublic Security shall not bepermittedto bid.

Universities and institutes. Exceptions may be given by the Bank on a case by case basis
for GOV-owned universities or research centers. Exampleso f cases for which the MOET
may seek such exceptions include: (a) under Component 1,MOET allowing universities,
institutes and their dependent units to associate with a principal consultant firm in the
form o f a sub-consultancy with the approval o f the Recipient, provided that the
complementary services required are unique and exceptional in nature, and provided that
the Recipient shall not require consultants to form any such associations with any specific
university, institute or dependent unit; (b) under Sub-component 2.2, a TRIG-recipient
university seeking to hire a university or institute or one o f their dependent units
(excluding any o f the hiring university's own dependent units), where no other eligible
and qualified firms are available or likely to be available to perform the services required;
and (c) MOET or TRIG-recipient universities contracting individual teaching and
research staff from MOET universities and institutes, where their services are unique and
exceptional innature, they are on leave o f absence without pay, they are not being hired
by the agency they were working for immediately before going on leave, and their
employment would not create a conflict o f interest.




                                             57

Assessment of the Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement

A Procurement Capacity Assessment was conducted by the Bank team for MOET andten
universities. Procurement questionnaires were sent to MOET and the universities, and
responses received from them have been analyzed. Duringthe pre-appraisal mission, the
Bank team also visited MOET and four universities to assess the procurement system in
place.

MOET i s familiar with the Bank procurement procedures through participating in four
Bank-financed projects.     MOET and universities have also been working with other
donors such as the ADB and fully acknowledge that the procurement procedure o f the
donor shall prevail in case conflicts between GOV's procedures and those o f the donor.
Among the 22 universities selected to participate in this Project, 17 universities have
participated in the Bank-financed HEP1, with some pro-actively identified cases o f
possible fraud inprocurement. While twelve participated inthree rounds o f HEPl QIGs
thereby gaining considerable experience in Bank procurement procedures, five
participated in one or two rounds o f QIGs becoming familiar with the procedures. The
remaining five universities are newly established and located in disadvantaged areas, and
have no prior experience with the Bank procedures either. Given the large number o f
entities carrying out procurement under HEP2 with different levels o f experience inBank
procurement, the procurement risk i s rated "high."

Action Plan. To mitigate the above risk, an action plan to improve capacity o f the project
implementingagencies has been set up as follows.

Table A8-1: Procurement Action Plan
                  Actions                       Responsibility            Dateof
                                                                       Completion
Appoint a Procurement Coordinator to the           MOET                Effectiveness
PMUhaving qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank
Finalize and adopt Project Operations              MOET                Effectiveness
Manual (including inter alia Procurement
Manual and TRIG Manual) acceptable to
the Bank
Hireat least two procurement consultants           MOET            November 30,2007
at the PMU.
Appoint at least one procurement officer        TRIG-recipient          FirstTRIG
inany TMUs whose TRIG Grant                      Universities        disbursement to
Agreements have beensigned and                                           relevant
counter-signed                                                      university's TMU
Provide initial training to TMUs                Bank & PMU          Three months after
                                                                       Effectiveness
Provide regular training workshops to               PMU                Continuous
TMUs

 Provide procurement support to TMUs by               PMU                Continuous

Ithe Procurement Coordinator and
IProcurement Consultants                      I                    I                     I
 Carry out prior review and post review               Bank               Continuous

 ProcurementPlan

 The procurement plan for the first 18 months of implementation o f Components 1 and 3
 and Sub-Component 2.1 was agreed upon during negotiations. The TRIG sub-project
 procurement plans (Sub-Component 2.2) will be available after the sub-project proposals
 have been prepared by the TRIGs recipients. Thereafter, each year, each implementing
 agency (PMU and TMUs) will submit for the Bank's review an updated procurement
 plan, using the same model and covering all the procurement activities: recruitment o f
 consultants, procurement o f goods, and training/workshop activities. Procurement plans
 will be published as required under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Consultants'
 Selection Guidelines, as well as in the Vietnam Procurement Bulletin. All procurement
 under the project shall be carried out in accordance with the agreed plans, as updated. At
 the end o f each semester, as part o f the IFRs, the PMU will submit: (i)     procurement
 monitoring reports, and (ii) contract progress and expenditure reports.

 Prior Review by the Bank of ProcurementDecisions

 The Bank will conduct prior review o f procurement documents and actions, in
 accordance with the Procurement Guidelines, as follows:
      Procurement plans. The Bank shall review the procurement arrangements proposed
      by the Recipient, including contract packaging, applicable procedures and
      scheduling o f the procurement process.
      Goods. The Bank will review the first ICB contract executed by each project
      implementing agency (PMU and TMUs) regardless o f contract value. Afterwards, it
      will review all contracts which exceedUS$ 300,000 per contract.
      Works. The Bank will review the first N C B contract executed by each TRIG sub-
      project implementingagency (Le. TMU), regardless o f contract value.
      Consulting services. The Bank will review the first contract with firm executed by
      each project implementing agency (PMU and TMUs) regardless o f contract value.
      Thereafter, it will review all contracts that exceed US$ 200,000 per contract for
      firms and US$ 50,000 per contract for individuals.

 Notes:
 (i) ThecontractsthataresubjecttopriorreviewbytheBankwillbeindicatedinthe
       Procurement Plan.
 (ii)Forgoodsandworkscontracts, theBankwillreviewbiddingdocumentsandbid
       evaluation reports.
 (iii)Forconsultingservicescontracts, theprior-reviewrequirementsareinaccordance
       with Appendix 1, Consultant Guidelines, Le., the Bank will review terms of
       references, shortlists, requests for proposals, evaluation reports and final draft
       negotiatedcontracts.



                                              59

ProcurementSupervisionandPost-reviewby the Bank

Contracts below the prior review threshold for goods and services shall be subject to
post-review as per procedure set forth in paragraph 4 o f Appendix 1 o f the Procurement
Guidelines and Consultant Guidelines. The rate o f post review will be initially twenty
(20) percent. This rate will be adjusted periodically duringproject implementation based
on performance o f the executing agencies. Each implementing agency shall send to the
Bank on an annual basis, a list o f all awarded contracts for goods, works and consultants'
services that are subject to the Bank's post-review. This list should provide: (i)a brief
description o f the contract, (ii) estimated cost, (iii)procurement method, (iv) date o f
contract award, (v) name o f supplier, contractor or consultant and (vi) contract value.

Recipient'sInternalReview Procedures

The Recipient's internal clearance o f procurement documents will be elaborated in the
Project Operations Manual in line with GOV's current regulations on procurement and
investment management and other circulars issued specifically for this project.

The Recipient's internal review procedures for procurement carried out with respect to
TRIG sub-projects (Sub-Component 2.2) havethe following features:
   TRIG procurement plans will be subject to prior review by MOET's Department o f
   Planning and Finance (as well as by the Bank);
   TRIG-recipient universities will report to the P M U on all procurement decisions and
   progress by way o f their quarterly IFRs;
   The PMU will act as the intermediary between TRIG-recipient universities and the
   Bank for correspondence concerning procurement that i s subject to the Bank's prior
   review;
   Neither the P M U nor MOET's DPF will carry out an internal prior review o f the
   TRIG-recipient universities'procurement decisions;
   The PMU may however provide advice to TRIG-recipient universities on specific
   procurement decisions before submitting a request for prior review to the Bank or at
   the universities' request in case the contract i s not subject to prior-review by the
   Bank, which advice the universitymay accept or reject;
   MOET's DPF with assistance o f the P M U will do procurement audits for overall
   procurement quality control, using the information to build procurement capacity in
    TRIG-recipient universities as necessary and to decide whether or not remedial
    actions are needed;
   MOET's DPF may carry out internal prior review on an exceptional basis, especially
   where a TRIG-recipient university is found, through procurement audits, unable to
    conduct procurement inline with Bank Guidelines;
    Where the Recipient is required to repay an amount to the Bank in a case o f
   misprocurement by a TRIG-recipient university, the Recipient intends recovering the
    amount from the relevant TRIG-recipient university (with this provision being set out
    inboth the Project Operations Manual [i.e. Procurement Manual and TRIG Manual]
    and ineach TRIG Agreement between the MOET and the university.


                                             60

Publicationof ContractAwards

The PMU will publish details o f bid/proposal evaluations and contract awards for the
entire project (including TRIG sub-projects) as required under the Bank's Procurement
Guidelinesand Consultants' Selection Guidelines, as well as inthe Vietnam Procurement
Bulletin.




                                         61

                                Annex 9: EconomicAnalysis
              VIETNAM: SECOND HIGHER EDUCATIONPROJECT

Introduction

This annex considers the likely costs and benefits flowing from project objectives and
activities. It describes andjustifies the methodology and assumptions applied in framing
the analysis.    The key finding i s that project investments will generate significant
economic benefits relative to project costs, which translates into a highinternal economic
rate o f return (Le., one that is high relative to the discount rate, whether taken to be the
market interest rate or another measure o f the opportunity cost o f capital).

The purpose o f this cost-benefit analysis is to assist government decision makers, the
Bank and other donors considering support for HEP2 to assess the economic worth o f the
proposed project design. Cost-benefit analysis i s a technique that can be used to estimate
the net economic benefits that will accrue from a project and/or assess the relative
economic value of competing alternatives. This cost-benefit analysis takes the selected
project design for HEP2 and identifies: (1) the project's net present value (NPV), and (2)
its internal economic rate o f return (IERR). These two critical concepts are described
below in brief, to assist with the reading o f this analysis and with the interpretation o f
findings.

Net Present Value. The NPV i s the sum o f the discountedflow o f net annual economic
benefits. The NPV represents the difference between the present value o f the benefits
and the present value o f costs. The NPV is, therefore, the net economic benefit that will
accrue as a result o f the project. Where the NPV is positive, the project yields a positive
rate o f returnon the investment. The NPV i s expressed here both interms o f Vietnamese
Dongs (VND) and U S Dollars (US$).

Internal Economic Rate ofReturn. The IERR i s defined as the discount rate that causes
the NPV to become zero. A project IERRneeds to be above the benchmark discount rate
for the project to be considered economicallyjustifiable.

ProjectObjectives

HEP2aims to increase the relevance and raise the standards o fhigher education activities
in research, teaching and learning. This will be achieved through capacity building to
assist establishing and maintaining an effective, coherent but flexible policy and
management framework at the system level, while building capacity, relevance and
autonomy at the institutional level. In particular, the project will provide support for
systemic governance and management improvements andprovide incentives for
developing improved teaching andresearch capacity.

IdentifiedBenefitsandCosts

Priced Benefits. The principal categories o f benefits that lend themselves to monetary
quantification and that were included in the economic analysis o f HEP2 are: (i)         the


                                              62

incremental increase in the earnings o f some graduates; and (ii) economic returns to
                                                                     the
specific investment inR&D activities.

Unpriced Benefits.     There are other benefits that cannot be easily priced and remain
therefore outside computations o f this cost-benefit model. The first three are unpriced
"external benefits" (benefits that accrue to society at large and not just to the individuals
who receive the training), and the fourth i s a major benefit that remains unpriced because
o fthe difficulty inassigning any value:
    Improvements inkey areas o f social development, such as health and basic education,
    as a result o f graduates entering the teaching and health professions, especially in
    under-developed regions o f the country, better prepared and perhaps in larger
    numbers;
    The enhanced capacity o f Vietnam to preserve and enhance the nation's cultural
    heritage by engaging technically with external influences and institutions on a more
    even footing;
    Improvements inteaching practices at universities that will filter down to lower levels
    o f the system and thereby improve the effectiveness and efficiency o f education at
    these levels;
    Improved responsiveness o f the higher education system as a whole (not just the
    TRIG beneficiary institutions) to the needs o f the economy and society as a whole;
    and
    Cost efficiencies, namely, reductions in unit costs (Le., the cost per student per year
    and/or the cost per graduate) o f higher education training as a result o f reduced
    repetition and dropout (Nl3: this benefit category is, potentially, subject to monetary
    quantification and has been priced in the economic analyses o f some education
    projects; however, because the direction o f this effect in the case o f the quality
    improvements to be introduced under HEP2 i s debatable (higher quality could
    actually result in increased repetition and dropout and higher unit costs), the decision
    was taken to discuss this category but not to try to quantify it).

Direct Project Related Costs.      The direct project related costs include the public
investment made through the use o f donor financing (Credit and Grant), the interest
repayments on the money borrowed, and the counterpart contributions made by GOV and
TRIG-recipient universities. Direct project costs also include the private contributions
that made by students to participate inthe courses and research initiatives provided by the
project.

Indirect Project Related Costs. The relevant indirect costs are the additional public
recurrent costs that may be generated by the project. These include:            (i)additional
maintenance costs generated by new and refurbished infrastructure, and (ii)             other
operational costs that will flow beyond the project period but are requiredinorder for the
expected project benefits to flow over the project benefit period.

Tables A9-I to 3 summarize the categories o f economic costs and benefits, list the key
parameters related to costs and benefits, and identifies the assumptions made for the base
scenario o fthe economic analysis.



                                             63

Table A9-1: Classific ition o f Economic Co :s and Benefits



Increase ingraduate Improvements in         Foreignproject      Opportunity cost o f
earnings              areas o f social      investments: Bank   research students in
(private benefit)     development           and any other       TRIG funded
                      (social benefit)      donors              institutions not
                                            (social cost)       beinginthe
                                                                workforce
                                                                (private cost)
Returnson             Improved              GOV investment in
investmentinR&D responsiveness o f          project activities
activities            higher education      (social cost)
(mixed benefit:       (HE) sector to
private and social)   economy and
                       society needs
                      (mixed benefit:
                      private and social)
Cost savings and       Strengthened         Interest repayments
improved              cultural heritage     on loan
efficiencies          and development       (social cost)
(mixed benefit:       (social benefit)
private and social)
                      Improvedteaching      Additional
                      and learning in       maintenance costs
                      other education       generated by the
                      sub-sectors           project
                      (mixed benefit:       (social cost)
                      private and social)




                                           64

Table A9-2:  enefits -Ass nedParameter Value! for Base Scenario
Type o f                        P      ter                         dVal
Benefit

Incremental Graduate      Number o f            All graduates from TRIG
increase in               beneficiary           beneficiary institutions
earnings o f              rrraduates
graduates                 Annual increase in    Based on HERA targets
                          students
                          Annual increase in    Same as HERA targets for
                          beneficiary           increased enrolments
                          rrraduates
                          Unemployment rate     5.2%
                          o f graduates
                          Benefit horizon       30 years
                          graduates
                          Benefit horizon       10years (including 5 years o f
                          TRIGinstitutions      Droiect cvcle)
                          Value o fbenefit      Salary loading applied to graduates
                                                from TRIG institutions (varies by
                                                Group o f TRIG funding)
cost         Full-time    Number o f            All institutions receiving TRIGs
savings/     equivalent   beneficiary
efficiency   student      institutions
gains, at                 Number of             All students from TRIG
the                       beneficiary full-time beneficiary institutions
institutional             eauivalent students
level                     Annual increase in    Increase apportionedto TRIG
                          students              beneficiary institutions based on
                                                HERAenrollment targets
                          Value o f cost saving Interrogate costs from higher
                                                education surveyto observe
                                                differences across institutions
Economic     TRIG         Value o f TRIG        Proportion of TRIG expenditure
returns on   Program      investment            dedicated to research improvement
research                                        (not teaching and learning)
funding                   Rate o f return on    Average returns based on
within                    research investment international research on rate o f
universities                                    returnanalysis and character o f
                                                Vietnam universities
                                                Group 1: 75%
                                                Grout, 2: 35%
                          Benefit horizon       5 years per each estimated annual
                                                investment onR&Dactivities as
                                                part o f TRIG funding



                                          65

 Table A9-3: Costs - Assumed Parameter Values for Base Scenario




 Local investment inproject activities        Equivalent o fUS$ 10 million
 Interest repayments on loan                  Concessional loan with assumed repayment
                                              schedule o f 30 years
 Additional maintenance costs generated
                                 -            To be definedand entered into calculations
Ibvthe Droiect                              I                                              I

 AssigningValue To RaisedIncomes And Savings

 The model calculations are based on the best available national figures covering the cost
 o f training and projected improvements in income levels.         A standard approach to
 calculating the economic benefit o f education (formal and non-formal) i s to apply a
 human capital earnings function model, which has the logarithm o f earnings on the left-
 hand side o f the equation, and schooling (years o f education, or categorical variables to
 indicate level and/or type o f education completed), work experience (years), and
 experience-squared on the right-handside. This model captures the private returns (inthe
 form o f increased earnings) that accrue to an individual from having completed (another
 year or the next level) o f education.

 This kind o f earnings function analysis i s typically based on census data or on periodic
 household samples. The Vietnam Household Living Standards Survey (VHLSS) provides
 a useful platform for estimating the incremental earning benefits that accrue to private
 individuals from improved learning outcomes.         The 2002 VHLSS captured median
 annual salaries inVietnam by level o f education as shown intable 4 below.




 Primary                                                      3,300,000
 Lower secondary                                              3,900,000
 U m e r secondarv                                            5.665.000
 Technical worker                                             8,400,000
 Professional secondarv school                                7.800.000
 Junior college diploma                                       8,498,000
 Bachelor degree                                             10,800,000
 Masters                                                     13.675.000




 For the purpose o f calculating incremental increase in income as a result o f the project,
 the annual figure was converted to a monthly figure. The monthly figure was then used
 to make an assumption about the number o f additional salaried months that a graduate



                                              66

 would enjoy as a result o f improved learning in a university affected by the project
 investments. The "additional months o f salary" mode o f estimation appears to fit well
 with the common practice o f individuals in higher education and other "knowledge
 sectors" to hold one permanent position but concurrently undertake a number o f other
 "working assignments" to supplement their base salary.          This practice is sometimes
 referred to as "moonlighting."

 The base scenario o f the cost-benefit model assumes that graduates from Group 1
 universities will, on average, gain an additional 1.5 months o f salary per annum as a
 result o f the project, those from Group 2 universitiesjust half a month o f additional salary
 per annum. These assumptions are spelled out in TableA9-5.

 Table A9-5: Projected Incremental Increase inAnnual Earnings o f Graduates, (2005




IGroup 2                                   0.5                              34

 Bene$t horizons and attrition rates. The model assumes that the project will result in a
 30 year time horizon for the improved earnings o f graduates.          This allows for the
 considerable benefits that can flow from education over an entire working lifetime.
 (Assuming a longer time horizon tends to have almost no impact on the results of the
 analysis because o f the progressive effect o f discounting as one considers benefits further
 and further in the future.) To the extent that Vietnam's labor market i s well functioning
 with full or near-full employment, these annual benefits can be multiplied by the average
 working life o f graduates (e.g., 40 years), with some marginal adjustments to account for
 unemployment, illness, early retirement or death.

 The model applies a discount factor to the number of graduates estimated to benefit from
 the project. This is to account for those graduates who are not able (or who do not wish)
 to apply the skills and knowledge acquired to work and obtain higher earnings after they
 graduate. The discount factor i s based on the unemployment rate (the percentage o f
 university graduates in the labor force who cannot find work) and non-participation rate
 (the percentage o f graduates who do notjoin or drop out o f the labor force).

 EconomicReturnsto InvestmentinResearchandDevelopment

 A growing body o f research has recently emerged suggesting significant economic
 returns accruing from investment in research and development. Moreover, high internal
 economic rate o f returns to higher education and similarly high rate o f return from
 increased activities in research and development provide strong cases for public support
 to the development o f higher education. For the cost-benefit analysis o f this project, the
 key challenge i s to quantify the benefits that are likely to be derived from investing in
 research through universities and attributable to HEP2. The literature search revealed no




                                              67

studies, however, quantifying the economic benefits o f research and development for
Vietnam specifically.

A Bank Working Paper, "R&D and Development" (Lederman and Maloney, WPS 3024,
2003), employs a new global panel data set on innovation related variables to examine
patterns o f R&D investment across the development process. It finds that R&D effort
measured as a share o f GDP rises with development at an increasingrate, but that several
countries have experienced extraordinary "take offs" relative to the median tendency.
Estimates o f the rates o f return to R&D suggest that these efforts arejustified and that the
returns to R&D appear higher for developing countries. Differences in financial depth,
protection o f intellectual property rights, and government capacity to mobilize resources,
inaddition to diminishingmarginalreturns to investment,appear as the mainreasonsthat
developing countries have higher returns despite investing less. The paper also finds that
natural-resource-abundant countries show higher returns to R&D although lower overall
investment.

The definition o f R&D employed in all o f the surveys analyzed by Lederman and
Maloney was based on UNESCO's statistical definition, which includes research
activities inthe fields o f the social sciences as well as the humanities. The definition also
includes activities in what are defined as the "productive" and "non-productive" sectors.
As stated in the following extract from the Manual for Statistics on ScientiJic and
Technological Activities (UNESCO, 1984): "Research and experimental development
can be defined as any systematic and creative activity undertakeninorder to increase the
stock o f knowledge (including knowledge o f man, culture and society) and to use this
knowledge to devise new applications."

The global panel data set included Vietnam, but the data for Vietnam included R&D
expenditure only for the years 1984 and 1985. It i s not possible, therefore, to draw upon
this data base for determining Vietnam-specific rates o f returnon investment from R&D
activities. The next best option has been to use the research findings o f the
LedernadMaloney Working Paper to estimate likely rates of return to investment in
Vietnam based on the estimated returns for other developing countries. The projected
rate o f return in Vietnam from HEP2 i s then calculated based on these findings with
adjustments made to account for the institutional focus o f HEP2 and Vietnamese national
conditions.

Global Rates of Return to Research and Development: Results from Bank Panel
Data Analysis

The LedermadMaloney Working Paper estimated the corresponding growth regressions
using panels o f five-year averages during the period 1975-2000. For the largest possible
sample o f countries (53), returns to R&D as a whole were found to be 78 percent. This
estimate falls in the middle o f the previously cited estimates for the U.S. and the OECD
estimates from Coe and Helpman (1995).




                                               68

To see ifthis aggregate number i s hiding variation across different levels o f development
either across countries or within countries, the analysis interacted R&D and the physical
investment with per capita GDP. Results from the analysis suggested a decreasing return
to R&D with development.         The Working Paper found: "The return in the average
OECD country i s somewhere between20-40 percent. For mediumincome levels, such as
Mexico and Chile, the average return i s around 60 percent and for relatively poor
countries, such as Nicaragua, the average return i s closer to 100percent."

Figure A9-I below illustrates the estimated returns to R&D and physical capital, which is
also found to be decreasing inversely with the level o f development.          It shows the
approximate 100 percent returns to R&D in the least developed economies compared
with the less than 40 percent returns for OECD countries. Countries are ranked according
to purchasingpower parity inconstant 1995 U S dollars.

Figure A9-1: Estimated Returns to R&D and Physical Capital by Level o f Development


      12m

          I                                                                          l5
                                                                                      4 J5




Another key finding based on the regression analysis in the Working Paper i s that R&D
and natural resources are strong complements, with the returns to R&D rising with
natural resource exports and vice-versa.       The Working Paper suggests that this is
``...consistent with other international research... that agriculturehas experienced amuch
faster rate o f total factor productivity growth than manufacturing in most developed and
developing countries). It i s also consistent with the argument that the better performance
of, for instance, Scandinavia or Australia in their exploitation o f natural resources
compared to Latin America can be explained by their much higher R&D effort and other
innovation-relatedpolicies" (Maloney 2002).



                                              69

For the case o f Vietnam, this research would suggest that returns to R&D are expect,edto
be in the higher range o f returns (100 percent). This reflects: (i)       the "relatively poor
status" o f Vietnam (ranked inthe bottom third o f countries adjusted for purchasingpower
parity); and (ii)  the vital role o f natural resource exports as an integral part o f the
economy (especially agricultural produce).

This upper estimate for returns to R&D needs to be considered in light o f the restricted
range o f institutions that will be the beneficiaries o f the project (Le. only universities and
not research institutes).      These other research units may be attached to industry,
government and/or social organizations andbe in a position to respond more quickly and
effectively to the actual needs o fproduction or communities. Indeed, part o f the rationale
for HEP2 i s to improve the relevance o f the research that is undertaken by universities.

A recent evaluation o f the Australian Government's flagship hnding program for
university-based Cooperative Research Centers has found that a key problem in
estimating the returns to research by the centers i s the difficulty in assessing the speed
and extent to which funded university research i s picked up and applied by government,
industry or other social organizations (Howard Partners, Evaluation of the Cooperative
Research Centers Program, 2003). The relevance o f research and its transmission from
"higher educationresearch unit" to "end user" i s also a significant issue inVietnam.

Another objective o f HEP2 i s to improve the quality o f the research that i s undertaken by
universities in order to maximize the returns that accrue to society as a whole from total
investment in the sector. This carries with it recognition that the quality o f research
undertaken at the moment is inneed o f significant improvement. The quality problem for
higher education research will be unevenly distributedacross institutions. Inthe absence
o f any external assessment o f the relative strengths o f Vietnam institutions (universities
vs. others) interms o f the relevance and quality o f their research, some assumptions will
be made for the purpose o f this cost-benefit analysis:

Assumption I: That the average rate o f return on investment in R&D in Vietnam i s 100
percent (based on the LedermadMaloney Working Paper). The returns are distributed
over a five-year benefit period in line with the calculations o f the LedernadMaloney
paper. This i s a conservative estimate as it i s highly likely that economic returns will
continue to flow past the five-year period. Inthe absence o f any empirical evidence on
the size o fthese benefits, the model will not impute any value.

Assumption 2: That both quality o f research and relevance o f research are equally
weighted factors in the generation o f economic returns to investment in research and
development.

Assumption 3: That the 17 universities o f Group 1 in Vietnam undertake research that i s
o f a quality at least equal to the average quality o f research inVietnam.




                                              70

 Assumption 4:     That the quality o f research declines in Group 2 universities - and
 (conservatively) that the quality o fthe researchwill remain at a significant discount to the
 national average throughout the project period.

 Assumption 5: That the research conducted by universities will be half as relevant for
 economic producers and social organizations as compared with the average relevance o f
 R&Dconducted inVietnam.

 Assumption 6: That the proportion o f TRIG funding that i s directed towards R&D
 activities will vary across Groups. For Group 1, 50 percent o f funds will be spent on
 R&Dactivities, declining to 5 percent for Group 2.

 These conservative assumptions, summarized below in Table A9-6, on the quality and
 relevance o f research in universities seem warranted.       They take into account the
 significant challenge facing universities in simultaneously improving their teaching-and-
 learning activities and their research. The assumptions give due weight to the delays that
 are likely to emerge in transforming organizational cultures before universities can
 improve on a sustainable basis the quality and relevance o f their knowledge production.
 Sensitivity analysis will test the impact on the economic rate o f returnto the project ifthe
 national rate o f return for investment in R&D in Vietnam i s reduced to half the rate
 estimated for `relatively poor status' countries.

 Table A9-6: Factors Influencing Assumed Rates o f Returnfor Vietnam Universities by




IRate o freturn( 5 year average)             100%"            75%                35%




                                              71

Resultsof Cost-BenefitAnalysis

A summary o fthe cost-benefit analysis is presented inTableA9-7 below.

Table A9-7: Base Case Scenario -Net Present Value and Rate o f Return




         2008                 15,981,818
         2009                 14,512,397            3,462,795              -- 23,581,818
                                                                              34,45 1,240
         2010                 13,178,062            6,623,591              - 41,005,710
         2011                 8 , s 1,328          11317,024               - 38,040,015
         2012                  310,46 1             15,691,897             - 22,658,579
         2015                  307,895              16,530,600               30,007,863
         2020                  147,729              10,876,366               97,691,765
         2025                  64.749               5.225.627              133.012.338
         2030                  23,452               2,5 10,689             150,018,971
         2036                    1891               1,041,786              159,269,2 10




SensitivityAnalysis

Sensitivity analysis is a procedure that allows us to test the estimates from the "most
likely" assumptions included inthe base scenario against other alternatives. The findings
o f the base case scenario have been compared with those based on three different
scenarios in order to see the effect o f changing the values o f key parameters. The
changed assumptions and the associated net present values and rates o f return are
summarized in TableA9-8 below.

The sensitivity analysis suggests that the project still yields a healthy rate o f return even
when key assumptions have been modified significantly to test the robustness o f the base
case scenario. Returns are affected least by downward adjustments to the private returns
o f graduates inthe form o f increased earnings. Returns are most significantly affected by
the alternative assumption that the economic return on investment to R&D activities
drops to zero, inwhich case the estimated IERRis still 18 percent.

Most significantly, the sensitivity analysis shows that there are considerable returns to
investment from both improved teaching and learning (as measured by improved incomes
o f graduates) and from investment in R&D. Ideally, both categories o f benefits will be
realized, but the sensitivity analysis shows that, even if one or the other does not
materialize, the strong benefits from the other will still make the project economically
worthwhile.




                                             72

                 Group 1: 75%+     38%
                 Groun2: 35%    +  18%
Alternative 2    Increase in graduate earningreduced         29%
                 Group 1: 1.5 months+ 1month
                 Group 2: 0.5 month   +  0.25 month
Alternative 3    Variations inAlternative 1and 2 combined    23%
                   Returns to R&Dresearch reducedbyhalf
                   Increase ingraduate earnings reduced




                                    73

                                   Annex 10:FinancialAnalysis
                 VIETNAM: SECOND HIGHER EDUCATIONPROJECT

EducationSector Expendit~re~~

There are four levels o f schooling in Vietnam             -   pre-primary, primary,37 lower
~econdary,~'and upper secondary.39 In addition, technical and vocational education and
training is available for students who have completed primary or lower secondary
schooling. HE i s offered in colleges and universities. Continuing education programs
are also offered in a variety of facilities. The entire system o f education and training in
Vietnam ("the education sector") provides the basis for the financial analysis.

Vietnamhas achieved a high and stable growth rate o f GDP since moving toward a more
market-driven economy, with the annual rate o f growth averaging 7.4 percent for the
period 1990-2005.40 Furthermore, education sector spending in relation to GDP rose
from 3.5 percent in 1994 to 4.1 percent in 2004 (see Table A10-1). The share o f public
expenditure allocated to education ranged from 14.0 percent to 18.6 percent inthe period
1994-2004 (Table A10-1); recent budgets indicate that education expenditure i s set to
continue within the same range (Table A10-2).

Table A10-1: Education ExpenditureinRelation to GDP and Total Government Budget,
1994-2002                                           I 1994   I 1998  I 2000    1 2002    1 2004   1
  Education as share o f GDP (percent)                 3.5      3.5     3.5        4.2      4.6
  Education share o fpublic expenditure               14.0     17.4     15.1      16.9      18.6
  (percent) [actual]

Assessment, 2005.

Table A10-2: Planned Education Expenditure in Relation to Total Government Budget,
2004-2007


Source: Ministryo f Finance, Disclosureo f State Budget/ CBng khai Ngin sach Nha
nu& (www.mof.gov.vn).

Vietnam i s situated inthe middle o f a group o f East Asian countries for state spending on
education in relation to GDP and to total government spending (see Table A10-3).
Progress towards meeting future targets for education spending as a share o f total public

36 This sectionis drawn fromthe 2005 GOV/Bank Public ExpenditureReview and Integrated Fiduciary
Assessment (see Volume 2,
http://siteresources. worldbank.org/~TVIETNAM/Resources/PERIFA~Volume2_Final~Eng_Jul18    .pdf).
3 1Five years, from age 6.
38 Four years, from age 11.
39 Three years, from age 15.
40 Source: Government Statistics Office
(http://www.gso,gov.vn/default~en.aspx?tabid=468&idmid=3&ItemID=473 5).


                                               74

spending (20 percent by 2010) will allow increased focus on educational quality and
effectiveness and contribute to national objectives. The gap between the current share o f
public expenditure for education and the 2010 target provides the needed fiscal space for
increased expenditure inhigher education.

Table A10-3 : Education SpendinginSelected Countries, Latest Available Year




 Japan                                      3.7                            10.7
 Korea                                      4.6                            15.0
 Malavsia                                    8.0                           28.0

IVietnam (2002)                             4.2                            16.9




Compositionof EducationSpendingby Sub-sectors

There has been a recent shift of sub-sector shares in state spending on education and
training, with spending on "education" (pre-school, primary, lower secondary and upper
secondary) increasing, and spending on "training" declining (see Table A10-4). This
reflects the current priority accorded to basic education as well as education in remote
and disadvantaged regions o f the country inrecent policy documents. In 1998, education
accounted for 73.3 percent and training for 26.3 percent o f total educatiodtraining
expenditure. By 2002, facilitated by a policy of "socialization" (the introduction o f user
charges), especially in the training sub-sector, education's share rose to 77.7 percent, and
training's fell to 23.3 percent. Within the allocation for school education, spending for
primary declined (owing to a rapid demographic shift, with the number primary school-
age children actually falling) whereas the spending on lower and upper secondary
education increased (as enrollments at these levels grew rapidly over the recent period).
Inthe near term, secondary education will requireadditional resources to meet the target
o f "universalization."  Higher education's share fell from 12.4 percent in 1998 to 9.7
percent in2002 as state subsidies were reduced. Government believes that this sub-sector
should relymuch more heavily on tuition fees.




                                             75

  Pre-primary                                        5.4        6.7       7.0       7.0
  Primary                                           35.3       32.2      32.7       31.6
  Lower secondary                                    19.4      20.4      20.3       21.3
  Upper secondary                                    8.3        10.0     11.0       10.4
  Other Education                                    4.9        6.5       5.O       7.4
  Training                                          26.3       24.1      24.0       23.3
  Vocational                                         3.8        3.0       3.3       3.2
  Continuinrr education                           I  4.8    I   3.5    I  3.2    I  2.9
            Y
  Higher education                                   12.4       9.3       9.6       9.7
  Post-graduate                                      0.8        0.5       0.5       0.5
  Other Training                                     4.9        7.8       7.4       6.1

Assessment, 2005.

CapitalandRecurrentShares of Expenditure

There has been little change in the economic composition o f education and training
spending, with capital expenditure fluctuating inthe vicinity o f 73 percent, and recurrent
expenditure around 27 percent, during the period 1999-2002. Inabsolute terms, however,
capital expenditure nearly doubled duringthis period, from 2,418 billion VND in 1999 to
4,375 billion VND in 2002. Most capital expenditure was spent on constructing new
facilities. The purchase o f equipment and major repairs accounted for just 10 percent.
During the same period, pre-primary and lower secondary education experienced the
fastest growth in terms o f capital expenditure (approximately doubling), followed by
upper secondary education (increasing by a factor o f 1.8) andprimary (factor of 1S).

Table A10-5 shows the share o f expenditure across capital and recurrent cost items for
education and training as a whole, and for the higher education sub-sector.         Higher
education received a consistentlyhigher allocation for capital related expenditure, but this
i s to be expected as higher education enrollments have expanded very rapidly over this
period. While Government continues to cover much o f the capital expenditure inhigher
education, the policy i s to gradually increase the private share (mainly tuition fees) of
total recurrent expenditure.




Source: GOV and Bank, Public Expenditure Review and Integrated Fiduciary
Assessment, 2005.



                                            76

Projectionsfor Expenditureon EducationandTraining

To assist inthe analysis o f the financial impact o fHEP2, a set o f financial projections has
been prepared to cover the education sector until 2015. These projections have been
based on some key targets set out in the Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP
2005), which i s the GOV's key social and economic planning document o f GOV. The
following assumptions have been applied in generating the education sector expenditure
projections:
    GDP will grow at the SEDP target rate o f 7.5 percent until2010 (the end o fthe SEDP
    planninghorizon) andthen continue to grow at the same 7.5 percent rate until2015;
    State expenditure will grow at an annual rate o f 12 percent from 2005 to 2008 (SEDP
    target) and then grow at the same rate until2015;
    Public expenditure for education and training will reach the SEDP target o f 20
    percent in 2010 (increasing by 1.1 percentage points each year until then) and then
    remainconstant at 20 percent;
    Higher education's share o f public education expenditurewill remain constant at 10
    percent for the entire period;
    The recurrent budget for higher education will remain constant at 70 percent o f the
    total higher education budget for the entire period; and
    All values are expressed in2004 prices by applying MOF calculations for inflation to
    2003 and2005.

The projected state budget and the budgets for education and training and for HE based
on these assumptions are presented inTable A10-6. The projections show total education
andtraining expenditure reaching 70.0 trillion VND by 2010, with recurrent expenditure
for HE rising from 2.6 trillion VND in 2006 to 4.9 trillion VND by 2010.                 The
projections can be compared with the working projections o f MOET as part o f its draft
calculations for the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for 2005-2008. By
2008, the MTEF calculations show total education expenditure reaching 61.2 trillion
VND, whereas our estimates show this expenditure being achieved one year later. The
close alignment o f projections from the two forecast methods provides us with some
measure o f confidence, and the slightly higher allocations shown in the MTEF figures
suggest that our predicted allocations are conservative, Le., likely to be on the low side.
Inother words, slightlymoremaybe available for HEthat our figuresshow.




                                             77

Table A10-6: Projected Higher Education Sector Expenditure, 2005-2015 (constant 2004



State Expendnureas % of GDP                   279   290    302   315    315   315    315    315    315    315    315
State Expenditure (VND tnllion)               2157  241 6  2706  3031  3258   3502   3765   4048   4351   4677   5028
EBT as% of State Expenditure                  145   156    167   178    189   200    200    200    200    200    200
Total EBT Expendnure (VNDtnllion)             312   376    451   539    615   700    753    810    870    935    1006
Compare EBTExpenddure (MTEF pmjecbons)        431   519    562   612
Govt budgetfor HE (VND trillion)                     3 8    4 5   5 4   6 2    7 0    7 5    8 1    8 7    9 4   101
GoVt budgetfor HE (USD million)                      238    286   341   390    443   477     512    551    592    636
Govt recurrent budget for HE (VND tnllion)           2 6    3 2   3 8   4 3    4 9    5 3    5 7    6 1    6 5    7 0
Gokt recurrent budget for HE (USD million)           167    200   239   273    310    334    359    386    414   446
 Source: Estimates based on M O F budget allocations for 2004 and 2005 and applying the
assumptions described above.

ProjectFinancialSummary

Tables A10-7 and A10-8 below summarize the financial impact o f HEP2 on the HE
sector. Table A10-7 summarizes the financial costs o f the project and shows the sources
o f financing. In addition to the investment costs o f the project i s a set o f recurrent costs
reflecting necessary investment in equipment and minor civil works that will be
associated with the laboratories and research activities generated under the project.
Investment costs total 70.5 million US$ over the project period, comprising a Credit o f
US$ 59.4 million, a Grant o f US$ 4.8 million and counterpart funding o fUS$ 6.3 million.

Table A10-7 also shows that the maintenance costs associated with plant equipment will
rise to U S $ 0.9 million per annum by 2011. This i s based on estimated maintenance
costs, set at 5 percent, o f project investment on equipment and related refurbishment
funded under Group 1 TRIG-financed sub-projects. Project investment on equipment i s
estimated to equal 50 percent o f expenditures under Group 1TRIG-financed sub-projects,
while investment on refurbishment o f teaching, research and administrative space is
estimated to equal 5 percent o f expenditures. The result i s that by the end of the project
period incremental annual recurrent costs associated with the project will reach just over
US$ 1.5 million.

However, these costs are significantly offset by the anticipated "research revenues from
other non-MOET sources." These revenues are assumed to be matching contributions by
industry and other government and non-government sources that will be interested inthe
R&D activities o f Group 1 institutions. The value o f the "other revenues" is set at a
modest 2 percent o f estimated project investment under Group 1 TRIG-financed sub-
projects. These contributions commence at the end o f the project implementation period
and are assumed to expire three years after project completion.




                                                                 78

Table A10-7: Financial Summary o f HEP2
                                                                     ProjectImplementationPeriod                 Postt.proJect
                                                         2007     2008      2009     2010    20ff    Totel  20f2   2M3        2014
A. Projectrelatedfinancialcosts
  1 lnvestmentcosts                                      10.000   15.000   15.000   15.000  15.000  70.000  0.000  0.000     0.000
  2 lncrernentalrecurrentcosts                           0.138    0.481    0.825     1.169   1.513   4.125  1.513  f.513      1.513
 2.1   Refurbishmentmaintenance                          0.013    0.044     0.075    0.106   0.138   0.375  0.138  0.138      0.138
 2.2   Equipmentmaintenance                              0.125    0.438     0.750    1.063   1.375   3.750  1.375  1.375      1.375
 2.3   Salariesof nationalstaff                                                                      0.000
 2.4   Salariesof H.Einstitutionstaff                                                                0.000
     Totalof projectrelatedcosts                         10.138   15.481   15.825   16.169  16.513  74.125  1.513  1.513      1.513
B. Sources of finance
   1 IDA                                                 8.314    12.471   12.471   12.471  12.471  59.400
   2 PHRD                                                0.686    1 029     1.029    1.029   1.029   4.800
   3 Government                                          1.000    1.500     1.500    1.500   1.500   6.300
   3 Researchrevenuesfrom other non-MOET sources         0,000    0,000     0,000    0,000   0,000   0.000  1,100  0.733      0.367
     Totalavailable financingto cover costs              10.000   15.000   15.000   15.000  15.000  70.500  1.100  0.733     0.367
B. Financialgapto be filled (A-B)                        0.138    0.481     0.825    1.169   1.513   3.625  0.413  0.779      1.146


Impacton GovernmentRecurrentBudget

The net financial impact o f the project on the GOV recurrent budget is negligible, as
shown inTable A10-8, never exceeding 0.5 percent o f projected budget estimates for any
financial year during the implementation and post-implementation period. This minor
impact i s assisted by the "other revenues" for R&D activities, but even without these
revenues, the net financial impact o f the project would be less than 0.5 percent o f the total
recurrent budget for higher education.

Table A10-8: ImDact o f HEP2on Government Recurrent Budnet.US$ million


A.   Recurrent budget for HE                                  200       239      273
B.   lncrernental recurrent costs due to project             0.138     0.481     0.825    1.169    1.513   1.513   1.513      1.513
C.   Recurrent revenues for R&D from other sources             0         0         0        0        0     1.100   0.733      0.367
D.   Recurrent cost financing gap (C-D)                      0.138     0.481     0.825    1.169    1.513   0.413   0.779      1.146
E.   Financing gap as %of projected recurrent HE budget       0.07     0.20      0.30     0.38     0.45    0.11    0.20        0.28




                                                                  79

                            Annex 11:SafeguardPolicyIssues
               VIETNAM: SECOND HIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT

There are no major safeguard issues associated with the project and no land acquisition or
resettlement concerns expected, since any civil works financed under the project will be
limitedto the refurbishment o f existing teaching, research or administrative spaces within
i t s existing campus sites. The project i s rated a Category C project and no safeguards
policies are triggered.

EnvironmentAssessment (OP 4.01) andInvoluntaryResettlement(OP 4.12)

Safeguards policies OP 4.01 & OP 4.12: Not triggered.

Under the TRIG scheme (Sub-Component 2.2), a university may fund the refurbishment
o f existing teaching, research or administrative spaces within its existing campus site for
the purposes o f implementing its grant, but may fund neither (i) construction,
                                                                          new
whether whole new buildings or additions to existing buildings, nor (ii)      conversion o f
existing buildings for new functions (e.g. residential to administrative). The TRIG
Guidelines will make this clear so that all TRIG sub-projects are within the scope o f the
scheme.

IndigenousPeoples (OP4.20)

Safeguards policy OP 4.20: Not triggered.

Project activities will cover disadvantaged areas where ethnic minorities reside. Under
the TRIG scheme (Sub-Component 2.2), the five Group 2 universities in economically
disadvantaged regions, with significant ethnic minority student populations, will receive a
grant to improve the quality of the educational services that they offer to their students.
All TRIG-recipient universities are required to report, as part o f the TRIG application
process, on the number and proportion o f ethnic minority students and the measures in
place or to be put in place to address under-representation o f ethnic minority students.
Giventhat ethnic minority issues are coveredinthe TRIGprocedures, no Ethnic Minority
Development Plan i s required.

SocialDevelopment

Project preparationwas undertaken with a high level o f participation. Consultations were
heldwith universities (especially those that participated inHEPl), as well as government
officials and community organizations. A beneficiary impact assessment along with a
social assessment was conducted by an international consultant during the preparation o f
the project, a summary o fwhich is set out inAnnex 12.




                                              80

TRIG Scheme Safeguards

The TRIG application form will require universities, in setting out their sub-project
proposals, to:
   indicate the percentages o f female and male students currently enrolled in each o f the
   study programs that the proposed sub-project would support, and where a percentage
   i s less than 40 percent, describe the measures that are currently being taken (or that
   will be taken during sub-project implementation) to increase the number of students
   from the under-represented gender in each of these studyprograms.
   indicate the percentage o f ethnic minority students currently enrolled in each o f the
   study programs that the proposed sub-project would support, and where a percentage
   i s less than 10 percent, describe the measures that are currently being taken (or that
   will be taken during sub-project implementation) to increase the number of ethnic
   minority students, female and male, inthese study programs; and
   indicate what environmental risks, if any, are present in the each o f the study
   programs that the proposed sub-project would support, and where environmental risks
   are present (e.g. treatment and disposal of hazardous waste from science laboratories),
   describe the measures that are currently being taken (or that will be taken during sub-
   project implementation) to mitigate the environmental risks in these study programs,
   and indicate separately what investment costs entailed in mitigating these risks are
   included inthe proposed sub-project.




                                           81

                                Annex 12: SocialAssessment
               VIETNAM: SECOND HIGHER EDUCATIONPROJECT

Introduction

The education sector i s an important location for a society seeking to increase social
inclusion and empowerment o f the population.              Social inclusion i s "the removal of
institutional barriers and the enhancement o f incentives to increase the access o f diverse
individuals and groups to development opp~rtunities."~~Social inclusion in HEP2 will
ensure that both women and men and those from more isolated areas and from ethnic
minorities employed within the higher education system have access to the benefits o f the
project.

Empowerment i s the enhancement o f the assets and capabilities o f diverse individuals
and groups to engage influence and/or hold accountable the institutions that affect
them."42     Empowerment will enhance the physical and financial assets o f higher
education in an equitable way across the system. It will provide a voice to those
traditionally less advantaged within the higher education system, and will increase the
transparency and accountability o f sector funding procedures.

While the underinvestment in capital construction in the higher education sector is a
pressing concern, it will be through investmentinhumanresources that the economy will
maximize returns from the HEP2 credit from the Bank. Many sources show that
traditional elites are more able to capture the benefits o f such investment, as they
generally have more access to a wider range o f resources than the less economically
advantaged groups in the population.               Putting in place strategies that increase
opportunities for those who have traditionally had less access in the project design for
HEP2 will increase the flow o f benefits, both social and economic, to a wider spread o f
the Vietnamese population.

Social Diversityand Gender

While Vietnam i s still rankedas poor, the country has human development indicators that
are significantly higher than most other countries o f a similar socio-economic status.
This i s in part due to the past investment in the social sectors by GOV. Another factor i s
the high degree o f social mobility in Vietnam, relative to other low-income countries.
Social mobility i s a good indicator o f social development.

The project design concerns a range o f stakeholders: government officials, university
staff (faculty and administrators), undergraduate and graduate students, and those who
will benefit from the research undertaken by universities.            Each o f these groups has
additional subgroups o f gender and ethnicity. For example, university academics can be
divided into groups o f women and men, and each of these groups can be divided by
ethnicity (Kinh and non-Kinh).         An analysis o f social diversity and gender provides

4 1Bank, Social Development Department, Social Analysis Sourcebook, Washington 2003, p.3.
42 Ibid.


                                                 82

insight into the nature o f these groups, their relative status, and the relations between
them that may impact on project design. This analysis will focus on the categories that
are least well represented within the higher education sector.43

Poverty. Lower education levels limit access to bothjobs and higher household income,
which in turn limits the next generation's access to education.44 Thus, as education is a
critical resource for the poor intheir attempts to move out o f poverty, it is important that
education - including higher education - be accessible to all groups to prevent
consolidation o f inequality from generation to generation.

Vietnam has invested strongly in education, achieving near-universal primary education
access in the 1990s. As a result, even most o f the very poor have access to basic
education. There are still some groups who are less likely to complete primary school, but
this constitutes a small minority. However, the participation o f the lowest income groups
in lower secondary, upper secondary and higher education is lower than for the richer
groups, inall regions o f the country.

The poor are a significant minority o f Vietnam's population, with 20 percent considered
below the poverty line, and 7 percent below the food poverty line.45 However, this
represents a substantial decrease fiom the percentages a decade earlier which were 58
percent and 25 percent re~pectively.~~Economic growth rates experienced by Vietnam,
combined with effective government policies, have enabled large numbers o f households
to lift themselves fiom poverty. However, there are still large numbers living in poverty,
and the gap betweenthe rich andthe poor i s widening.

Poverty in Vietnam has a geographical aspect. The poorest geographical areas are the
Northern Uplands, the Central Highlands and the North Central Coast, however about 30
percent o f the poor live in the rice bowls o f the Mekong Delta and the Red River Delta.
Poverty also has an ethnicity aspect, with the Chinese, which constitute 2 percent of the
population better off than the Kinh, which constitute 84 percent o f the p~pulation.~'The
Kinhhave apoverty rate of 14percent, a major improvement over a decade earlier when
the figure stood at 55 percent. Other ethnic minority groups have done considerably less
well than the Kinh,with a current poverty rate o fjust over 60 percent.48

Ethnicity. The Kinh are the majority ethnic group in Vietnam, but Vietnam is a multi-
cultural country with over 50 different ethnic groups constituting more than 13 percent o f



43Representationinthe higher education sector relative to the representationinthe population as a whole i s
a proxy measure for relative power and influence within the sector as a whole. Although these categories
do not represent cohesive groupings inthe sense that all members of the group act in concert, it in
nonetheless useful to analyze participation usingthese categories to assess patterns of participation.
44VHLSS demonstrate the correlation between poverty and education, with the poverty rate declining as
the education level rises.
45GSO, VHLSS 2004
46GSO, VHLSS 1994
47GSO, VHLSS 2004
48GSO, VHLSS 2004


                                                    83

the p~pulationAt~~more than 10 million people, ethnic minority groups together make
                  .
up a population that is larger than the entire population o f Lao PDR. Most ethnic
minority groups are quite small, with the more significant numerically being the Hoa
(Chinese), Thai, Tay, Khmer, Muong and Hmong.

Ethnic minorities account for 39 percent o f the country's poor.50 Many ethnic minority
groups are concentrated in the most geographically isolated and economically
disadvantaged areas such as the Northern Uplands and the Central Highlands. There i s no
legal discrimination against e t h i c minorities, however some entrenched cultural attitudes
and access to fewer resources and services has meant that ethnic minorities are not
benefiting from economic growth to the same extent as the Kinh.

Women within ethnic minority groups often suffer more from the effects o f poverty than
men as they have less access to decision-making power and lower education outcomes
which makes them the poorest o f the poor?         Girls have a lower rate o f attending school
than boys, due to poverty, the need for family-based labor, and parental attitudes
regarding the appropriateness o f girls' education.

Ethnic minority students are less likely to complete the education cycle due to drop-out,
repetition or absenteeism due to economic difficulties. Ethnic minorities have the right to
speak their own language although Vietnamese i s the medium o f instruction in most
schools. There i s a shortage o f teachers from ethnic minority groups, although the
government i s attempting to recruit and train more ethnic minority teachers.

Information on the breakdown o f students by ethnicity in higher education i s not
currently available. Enrolment capacity at institutions inthe disadvantaged regions o f the
Northern Uplands, Central Highlands and the Mekong Delta i s in general lower than
those in other areas. These institutions largely focus on teacher training, with the
exception o f some significant institutions such as Can Tho University, and to a lesser
extent, An Giang University. It is expected that the participation o f ethnic minority
students in higher education is lower than the representation o f ethnic minorities in the
population as a whole because o f the systemic and structural constraints on their
participation.

As ethnic minorities come from those areas of the country that will benefit most from
economic growth (insofar as these areas are moving from a low base o f economic
development), investment in students from these areas i s expected to reap economic
rewards, as well as being socially equitable.         At least a proportion o f students are
expected to return to their area o f origin, bringingnew ideas and methods that will spark
innovation.

Gender. Women have always taken a prominent role in independent Vietnam. While
traditionally constrained by Confucian values under which women are subordinate to the


49GSO, VHLSS 2004
50GSO, VHLSS 2004
5'UNDP 2002b


                                               84

males o f the household, the status o f women has been bolstered by substantial legislative
and cultural change over the last 40 years. Women have increased their participation in
all parts o f the economy and society, including 27 percent o f the seats in the National
Assembly. Women in Vietnam have reached 71 percent o f the level o f human
development in comparison with men, as measured by the gender-related development
index.52

There are many areas inwhich women's status is not equivalent to that o f men. Ethnicity
and location also play an important role in the status o f women. A young woman o f
ethnic minority background living in a rural area at present does not have the same
opportunities as a Kinh girl living in an urban area. Some groups are more likely to be
excluded than others, and clearly women and ethnic minorities are the groups most
affectedby social exclusion inVietnam.

Underpinningthe rightsthat women have achieved inVietnam has beentheir educational
status. The government has invested inthe education o f women from independence, and
has achieved education goals befitting a country o f a much higher socio-economic
standing. Women have been increasing their participation in all areas o f education, and
the adult literacy rate was 89 percent for women (compared with 92 percent for the adult
population as a whole).53 Under the Millennium Development Goals framework, GOV
has committed to the elimination o f gender disparities inall levels o f education by 2015.

In basic education, despite significant improvement of the school curriculum, there
remain many problems. Girls are still more likely to have never attended, drop out and
repeat than boys. The likelihood o f this occurring increases in lower income groups.54
The following table shows the breakdown o f the student population by gender, at each
level o f education. Women's participation decreases in the transition from secondary to
higher education.




Due to strong gender stereotypes in the fields o f studies chosen and traditional gender
division o f labor, female students are concentrated mainly in social disciplines, such as
education and social sciences, accounting for about 70 percent o f all students in these
fields. Men dominate in technical disciplines, such as engineering accounting for over 70
percent o f all students inthese fields.55 Baseline data showing enrolments by gender and


52UNDP2004, HumanDevelopmentReport2006, New York, UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgram.
53GSO, VHLSS 2002
54Ibid
55Ibid


                                             85

ethnicity will be required if performance monitoring i s to provide evidence o f improved
educational outcomes.

Disability. Very little data is collected on staff or students with disability. It is estimated
that the prevalence o f disability in the Vietnamese population is more than 3 percent.56
Despite government policies on inclusive education, education outcomes for the disabled
are significantly lower than for the population as a whole, with one major survey
reporting that half o f the school aged (6-17) disabled children were illiterate and one-
third had never been to school.57 With such low education participation rates, it is
unlikely that many disabled people go on to further education or to gain employment
within the higher education sector. It will be important to include disability in the
baseline data collection, to monitor participationby the disabled over the project period.

Structureof the Workforce inHigherEducation

Staffgenderprofile. In2002, female staff accounted for 45 percent o f the total, o fwhich
managers were 22 percent. Female academics accounted for 41 percent o f the total
number o f academics. Of the service staff females accounted for 58 percent. This
indicates that there are some structural constraints to gaining the higher degrees necessary
for employment as academics, and possibly some constraints experienced in recruitment
and promotion. Ensuring that opportunities for participation in HEP2 proposals are
available to women i s therefore important, and will go some way to redressing past
participation constraints, and ensure that women have as much opportunity as their male
colleagues to benefit from HEP2 investment.

Staff age profile. The age o f university staff is a critical factor when planning human
resource development (HRD).Many older staff trained in the USSR and former eastern
European countries, and these qualifications have now dated. This group i s likely to be
older than 40 and to be less proficient inEnglish, and more proficient inRussian, German
and other east European languages.

Younger staff i s more likely to have been trained in Vietnam, or in western economies,
although in substantially smaller numbers than those trained in the former Soviet bloc.
This group is more likely to have undertaken some Englishlanguage training, although
levels o f English language proficiency are likely to be less at institutions outside Hanoi
and HCMC.

Younger staff i s more likely to be in a position to take up HEP2 opportunities, and
investment inthe younger strata o f managers and teaching staff is likely to have a longer
term benefit as it i s this group who will be inthe workforce for the longer period o f time.
However, age plays an important role in institutional hierarchies in the public sector in
Vietnam; as it does in other parts o f society, and younger staff many find it difficult to
gain access to project opportunities.


56UNICEFEvaluationDatabase, ReportonVietnamChildDisabilitySurvey,
http://www.unicef.org/evaldatabase/index-14383.html
57UNICEFVietnamChildDisabilitySurvey, 1998, http://www.unicef.org/evaldatabase/index-l4383.html


                                                 86

Table A12-2: Age and professional qualification structure o f higher education teaching




  - Under 35                                                31                   35
  -- From 35 to 50                                          49                  47
     From 51 to 60                                           15                  15

I 2. Professionalqualification structure
  -- Doctoral                                                12                  12
     Master                                                 25                  27

I - Others                                                  0.9                 0.8




The percentage o f lecturers over 50 years accounts for 19 percent. The percentage at
universities is higher than at colleges 21 percent, compared to 10 percent. (Teacher
training institutions have been more successful at recruiting younger staff. This reflects
their rapid growth over the last 5 years.) The ratio o f lecturers at the age under 35
accounts for 35 percent. At smaller universities, the percentage i s 25 percent, which i s
significantly lower than middle-sized universities at 41 percent and large-scale
universities at 36 percent. The number o f younger staff has increased from 1999 by a
margin o f 4 percent.58

More established institutions tend to have an older age profile, having been slower to
expand in comparison with the teacher training instructions. Younger academics and
management staff have not had access to the opportunities that the established academics
have had. Investingin those who will be inthe system for the longest period o f time will
assist in improving HRD across each participating institution. It will also maximize the
economic benefit that flows from the project.

Staff ethnicity profile.    Staffs from ethnic minority backgrounds constitute only 1.5
percent o f the total staff."    Ethnic minority staff at universities only constitutes 0.8
percent o f staff, while at colleges 3.2 percent o f staff. This i s an under representation
given that ethnic minorities constitute over 13 percent o f Vietnam's population. However
it is consistent with difficulties that ethnic minorities have experienced in gaining access
to all levels o f education.




58MOET, Survey o fHigher Education Institutions 2003
59MOET Edustatsdatabase2005, http://www.edu.net.vrdDatalThongKe/dhcd.htm


                                                 87

 Universities                                                                 0.8
 Colleges                                                                     3.2



TFUG-recipient universities will report on gender and ethnicity within their institution's
student body. Inparticular monitoring o f the participation o f female and ethnic minority
students i s important as they are the least well represented groups in the sector. They are
therefore least likely to participate equally inproject opportunities.

Institutionsand Stakeholders

Institutions in the higher education sector mean the institutions as the providers of
education such as the universities, but also the regulations that direct growth and
development of the sector.60 There i s a wide range o f government, organization and
individual stakeholders affected by the HEP2 project design process. The following is an
analysis o f the stakeholders and the mechanisms ofmovement inthe system.

Ministry of Education and Training. MOET i s responsible for the overall regulation and
management o f the higher education sector. MOET also directly controls some of the
larger national universities.

Central ministries. Central level line ministries, such as the Ministries of Construction,
Transport, and Culture control and provide funding for their own institutions, e.g. the
University o f Construction. Some ministries also control research institutes, such as the
National Institute for Education Strategy and Curriculum Development (NIESAC) which
is controlled by MOET.

Provincial government.          Provincial level government in the form o f the provincial
people's committees may also be responsible for controlling and funding provincial level
institutions, either universities (e.g. An Giang University), or colleges, such as the teacher
training institutions. The largest group o f HEIs i s provincially based teacher training
institutions, charged with training the large number of new teachers required for primary
and secondary level.

Universities. Selected universities have been organized into two groups for the purpose
o f this project.     Group 1 universities are 17 "major" nationalhegional institutions,
bringing together universities identified by the GOV as "key universities"61 and
universities that had already received a "QIG-C" grant under HEPl. Group 2 institutions



6oWhile this use of the terminstitution is broader than typically usedina WB Social Assessment, it is
considered more appropriate to conformto sector usage o f the term for the sake o f consistency with project
and sector documentation.
61Decision No.1269iCP-KG dated September 06, 2004.


                                                     88

are provincially based, catering for student populations in disadvantaged regions
(Northwest, Central Highlands, andMekong Delta).

There had beena substantial investment inhigher education relative to the country's level
o f economic development. Duringthe 1980s graduates averaged over 20,000 per annum.
While limitedintheir training insome respects due to the level of economic development
at the time, well trained graduates were produced ina number o f technical areas.

The education sector has grown rapidly over the last few years. Following the success o f
national policies such as universalization o f primary education, the numbers completing
lower and upper secondary education have rapidly increased (74 percent and 38 percent
respectively in 2000).62As a result, there are increasing numbers o f eligible candidates
seeking entry to HEIs. Institutions have increased from 110 in 1995 to 214 in2004, and
enrolments have increased from 125,000 in 1991 to 1.03 million in 2004.63 The
government plans to increase enrolments to 200 per 10,000 population by 2010 and to
450 per 10,000 population by 2020.64 This has created a number o f pressure points: the
need to provide new facilities, to train a large number of new teachers for the lower and
upper secondary sectors, and the need to increase the numbers and quality o f university
lecturers and staff.

Some o f the older universities were created for a particular area o f study, such as the
University o f Foreign Trade or the National Economics University. Many o f these
universities have developed into multi-disciplinary organizations. Most retain a sectoral
focus, such as the HCMC University o f Forestry. Some universities were created to be
multi-disciplinary organizations, but have their origins in the teacher training institutions
that were established in each province. These universities tend to be more recently
created, and have fewer faculties. Teacher training i s still a significant part o f the
universityactivities.

The higher education system has, since independence, been developed upon the Soviet
model of substantial central control. Under this arrangement, MOET managed the
establishment of universities and oversaw their management. This created a degree o f
inertia amongst universities and resulted in poorly equipped campuses with outdated
practices in teaching and research. However, under d6i m6.i (renovation) reforms in the
sector, institutions have an increased level o f autonomy, while still being directed by
MOET ina number of key areas.

Prior to 1993 most universities were allowed only limited contact with non-Soviet bloc
universitypersonnel. Duringthe 1980s there were some exceptions including cooperative
programs with the International Rice Research Institute and some Swedish funded
opportunities for higher level training. Many institutions have been very successful
during the last 15 years at creating their own bilateral links with ODA providers, and


62UNDP HumanDevelopment Indicators,http:llwww,undp,org.vnlundplfactlindicators.pdf
63HEP2 TP 3
64MOET (2005) Statementabout the draft on the renovationinVietnam's HigherEducation(The 2006-
2020 period), No. 6300ITTr-BGD&DT, Hanoi, July 22


                                                89

individual institutions (and academics) in other countries. Can Tho University i s a good
example o f a very successful regional universitythat through active and strategic alliance
building, has raised its profile to the national level. Can Tho University was recently
designated one of the 14 strong universities inVietnam.

There are now some privately funded HEIs in Vietnam. These are in two categories:
private HEIs and people-founded HEIs. These institutions account for 9 percent o f HEIs
and 13 percent o f enrolments in2004.65This group is significant as the government plans
for 40 percent o f enrolments to be inprivate institutions by 2020.66

Sector Regulation and Funding

Overall regulation o f the sector i s provided by MOET, however funding for HEIs may
come through MOET, line ministriesor provincial government. Some provinces are more
capable o f providing funding to the education sector and HEIs in particular by virtue o f
their ability to raise more revenue, such as HCMC. Some smaller and less economically
advantaged provinces have made a commitment to supporting HEIs due to a perceived
flow on effect for economic development.

The level o f decentralization inthe education system mirrors the decentralization o f the
Vietnamese economy as a whole. Inpart due to the legacy o f a war economy and a poor
communications infrastructure, limitedinpart by the period of command planning, many
sectors o f the economy were requiredto become reasonably autonomous in some areas o f
decision-making. As a result, some provinces developed and innovated ahead o f national
policy directives while others have been more cautious inimplementing change. Regional
diversity and local initiative have been noted as a hallmark of the Vietnamese economic
            so it i s not unexpected to encounter it inthe education sector as well.

Lines o f administrative control can be unclear, even in a seemingly centralized system.
The balance o f central and provincial lines of power may be more decentralized than
indicated for the formal lines o f sector governance. Provincial DOET officials are
responsible to MOET, receiving training and communication and instructions. However
they will also be responsible in many aspects to the provincial and local authorities with
whom they are in everyday contact and to whom they will be required to report.68
Provincial officials are also likely to be from the provinces in question, with familial and
cultural ties to that province.

Those HEIs in provinces or cities with a substantial degree o f autonomy, and with a
reasonable capacity to raise revenue from provincial sources are in a good position to

65Le Thi Bich Ngoc (2005), Overview on financing o f Higher education sector inVietnam, Bank, Higher
EducationProject 2 Project Design Technical Paper
66MOET (2005) Statement about the draft on the renovation inVietnam's Higher Education (The 2006-
2020 period), No. 6300/TTr-BGD&DT, Hanoi, July 22
67Arkadie and Mallon 2003
68Arkadie and Mallon (2003) note the balance o f political and administrative power inthe national-
provincial relationship i s one manifestation o f the foundation of consensus-building on which the economic
and political system is based.


                                                        90

draw upon provincial support. This i s evident in HCMC and Danang. This also enables
the HEIs to develop their own areas o f strength, not necessarily outside MOET directives,
but inresponse to local demand.

As institutions have increasingly been required to raise a larger proportion of their
revenue from tuition fees, the gap in fbnding between some o f the larger, more
prestigious national institutions and the smaller provincial based institutions has become
more obvious. Tuition fees now account for 20 percent o f total e x p e n d i t ~ r efor                ~ ~
vocational schools, colleges and universities, and higher fees in these are likely to deter
studentswho come from the poorer income groups.

The Decree on Financial Autonomy (Decree 10) encourages revenue raising public
educational institutions at all levels to manage their revenues, expenditures and staffing
autonomously while also seeking alternative revenue sources.7o With increasing financial
autonomy for institutions, the private costs o f higher education are likely to increase.
While a cap will be place on tuition fees, institutions are likely to increase charges for
other university services, making higher education beyond the reacho f most o f the poor.

Regional Issues

The patterns o f investment in higher education match the economic growth o f the
country. Most o f the larger, older and well-endowed institutions are inthe larger cities o f
Hanoi and HCMC. Larger cities such as Danang or Hue also have strong universities
(Danang University, Hue University).

More economically disadvantaged regions are less well endowed. The Northern Uplands,
the North and South Central Coast (with the exception o f Danang and Hue) have
provincially controlled institutions based on teacher training. The Mekong Delta region i s
the exception with the presence o f Can Tho University which has become a very strong
and well organized multi-disciplinary institution focused on meeting the needs o f the
rural-dwelling, agriculturally based economy o fthe southern most part o f the country.

This pattern o f growth has its genesis inthe history o f the country. Vietnam went through
a period o f acute economic difficulty during the long period o f warfare and
reconstruction. While higher education was seen as important, very few resources were
available except for a few centrally based institutions. In the provinces, where warfare
had decimated the population numbers, the higher education priority was educating
sufficient teachers to staff the     school^.'^ Inthe    northern uplands, with issues relating to
isolation, language and ethnicity, this was also the case. It has taken many years o f
investment in teacher education to increase the average length o f teacher training. This



69UNDP 2005, p. 30.
70InterministerialCircular no. 21/2003/TTLT-BTC&BGD-BNV provides guidelines for financial
management o f revenue earning public service delivery units inthe public education and training sector.
Decree no. 10/2002/ND-CP regulates financing o f revenue generating service delivery agencies.
"Insomeareas,suchastheMekongDelta,forsometimeaftertheAmericanWarteacherswereplacedin
schools after only 7 years schooling.


                                                   91

also reduced the amount o f resources that was available for on education and training in
other areas, such agriculture, aquaculture and medicine.

Participation. The two TRIG groups will allow universities to participate on a more even
footing than would otherwise be the case with a single, open category. The following
table ranks stakeholder participation by TRIG Group. Those stakeholders that have the
highest level o f participation are those who can affect the project, largely MOET and
Group 1's major institutions.




1 Institutions
  TRIGGroup 1:Major Universities                                        H      H       L
  TRIG Group 2: Universities inDisadvantaged Regions                   M       M       L
I Individuals                                                      I         I      I       I




C1 = Component 1; C2 = Component 2; C3 = Component 3
H=High,M=Medium, L=Low

Enabling conditions to improve social participation. There i s a range o f conditions that
enable project benefits to be spread widely to enable all social groups to participate and
benefit from the HEP2 credit funds. One o f the most important conditions i s to afford
universities in disadvantaged areas access to TRIG sub-project funds. Developing top-
tier research will take a significant amount o f time and funds. If the higher education
sector i s designed for communal contribution rather than simply educating students and
conducting research then a strong argument exists for spreading the benefits beyond
Group 1 institutions. Universities should respond to social demands and development,
andcreate social assets to enable students to contribute to local, regional and international
cornm~nities.~~



l2ProfessorVo TongXuan, Rector, An Giang University quote inThanhNien, 20/09/05
http:/iwww.thanhniennews.codeducatiod?catid=4&newsid=9302


                                              92

Social developmentstrategyproposals

Performance monitoring will show the extent to which a range o f groups have been
involved in project activities, including mapping institutions that have benefited from
HEP2 as well as those that have not, and including disaggregated participation data on
students and staff, by gender, age, and ethnicity. It will be difficult to measure extent of
full impact as participation of different social groups without enabling conditions (i.e.
situation without project conditions).

Benefit impact assessment. Typically, it is those groups who are closest to a project who
stand to benefit most. The project design clearly intends to funnel resources to produce a
few centers o f excellence, while promoting improvements across the sector as well. The
project design does not aim to distribute resources evenly across the system. There will
be different absorptive capacity within each TRIG Group and within each institution.
There are also other significant ODA projects supporting the higher education ~ector.'~




1 Government                                                        I     I       I         I
  MOET                                                               H       H        H
  Provincial Departments o f Education                                L      L        L
  Line ministries (e.a. Construction, transoort, culture)             L      M        M
I Provincial eovernment (Provincial Peode's committees)             IL I     L I      L I
  Institutions
  TRIG Group 1:Major Universities                                    H       H        H
  TRIG Group 2: Universities inDisadvantaged Regions                 M       M        M
  Individuals
  TRIGGroup 1:Major Universities
 Academics                                                           H       H        H
 University managers                                                 H       H        H
 Post maduate students                                               H       H        H
  TRIGGroup 2: Universities in Disadvantaged Regions
 Academics                                                           M       H        H
 Universitymanagers                                                  M       H        H
 Post graduate students                                              M       H        H



While individuals will not be eligible to make TRIG grant applications, it is still
worthwhile looking at the benefit o f HEP2 on individuals within the social categories
analyzed within this report. The following table analyses beneficiaries at the individual



73 ADB Upper Secondary and Professional Teacher Development Project.




                                               93

level in more detail. This i s where the impact o f age, gender and ethnicity on the staff
and student categories within each o fthe institutional tiers is clarified.

 'able A12-6: Individual Benefit Matrix




 Students - other    I                              L j                             L
EM=Ethnicminority; H=High,M=Medium,L=Low




                                            94

                   Annex 13: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
             VIETNAM: SECONDHIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT

                                             Planned                   Actual
PCNreview                                   9/11/2003                9/11/2003
Initial PID to PIC                          8/30/2006                8/30/2006
Initial ISDS to PIC                         9/18/2006                9/18/2006
Appraisal                                   03/05/2007              03/05/2007
Negotiations                                04/16/2007              05/10/2007
Board/RVP approval                          06/21/2007
Planneddate of effectiveness                11/01/2007
Plannedclosing date                         06/30/2012

Key institutionresponsible for preparationo fthe project: MOET

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                                Title                    Unit
ALBERT-LOTHAgnes                          Senior Finance Officer           LOAG2
ARISTORENAS Rosario                          Program Assistant             EASHD
BALLCarol                                Senior Operations Officer         EASHD
DU'CSNGD8 Q u y h                             Finance Analyst              LOAGl
DU'CSNG Qubc Vinh                         Environment Specialist           EASES
di GROPELLO Emanuela                    Senior HumanDevelopment            EASHD
                                                 Economist
KIJIMA Rie                                    M&ESpecialist               MNSHD
MA1Thi Thanh                             Senior Operations Officer         EASHD
MOOCK Peter                                Education Economist            Consultant
NESMITHKatherine                        Junior ProfessionalAssociate       EASHD
NGUYENHohi Linh                              Operations Analyst            EASHD
NGUYENHaiChAn                                  Senior Counsel              LEGEA
NGUYENMinhNguyet                             Program Assistant             EACVF
NGUYBNThi Phuong Trang                    Environment Specialist           EASRE
NGUYeNThuy Anh
NGUYBN vinLinh                               Operations Analyst            EASHD
                                             Program Assistant             EACVF
P H A M Thi MangHoa                Senior Social Development Specialist    EASSO
PHANThi Xuh Qujrnh                    FinancialManagement Analyst          EAPCO
THOMSON Jennifer                       Senior Financial Management         EAPCO
                                                 Specialist
T d NThi HaiChAu                              Finance Analyst              L O A G l
T d N Quang ThBng                    Financial Management Specialist       EAPCO
T d NThi HangHi&                          Procurement Specialist           EAPCO
WAITE Jeffrey                                  Team Leader                EASHD
WATKINS Alfred                         Lead Science and Technology        HNDED
                                                 Specialist
WEBERLuc                                Higher Education Specialist      Consultant
WOODHALL Maureen                    HigherEducationGrants Specialist     Consultant


                                          95

1. Bankresources:                         400,000 US$
2. Trust funds:                                    _ _
3. Total:                                 400.000 US$


1. Remainingcosts to approval:                     _ _
2. Estimated annual supervision cost:      65,000 US$




                                     96

                        Annex 14: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
               VIETNAM: SECONDHIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT

(I)TechnicalPapers(TP)preparedspecificallyforHEP2PPU(Unpublished)
   -
Volume I-Developing Research Capacity and Enhancing Teachingand Learning
TP No 1.1-Harman, Kay, Building Research Capacity and StrengtheningResearch and
Development in Developing Countries, 22 June 2005
TP No 1.2 - Harman, Kay, Strengtheningthe Links between Teaching,Learning and
Research in Higher Education, 22 June 2005.
TP No 1.3 -Harman, Grant, University Research Roles and Knowledge-Led Economies,
27 June 2005.
TP No 1.4-Harman, Kay, Summary Feedback on HEPl QIGs and HEP2 TRIGs: From
Interviews carried out in Hanoi, H o Chi Minh City, Danang and Hue, 24 may-2 June
2005,22 June 2005
TP No 1.5 - Hannan, Grant, Quality Improvement Grants (QIGs) under HEP, 27 June
2005.
TP No 1.6 -Harman, Grant, Teaching and Research Innovation Grants (TRIGs):
Options and Possibilities, 27 June 2005
TP No 1.7-Harman, Grant, and Kay Harman, SuggestedModelfor Teachingand
Research Innovation Grants (TRIGs), 28 June 2005
TP No 1.8 -Hannan, Grant,Links between Training, Research and Industry; and
Strategies/Expenditure Items to Achieve Enhanced Research Capacity and Improved
Quality in Teachingand Learning, 23 August 2005
Volume11- Reforms for Higher Education Sector Policy and Governance
TP No 2.1 -Lam Quang Thiep, An Overview of Higher Education in Vietnam: Current
Situation and Issues, July 2005
TP N o 2.2 - L e Thi BichNgoc, Financingfor Training/Research in Universities in
Vietnam, (Draft) July 2005
TP No 2.3 - Le Thi BichNgoc, Overview on Financing the Higher Education Sector in
Vietnam, (Draft) July 2005
TP No 2.4 - Smith, Larry,A Review and Analysis of Performance Indicatorsfor Higher
Education, 3 October 2005
TP No 2.5   - Rorris, Adam, Vietnam Higher Education Project No 2 Socio-Economic
analysis, 6 October 2005
 (11) Official GOV Documents
Socialist Republic o f Vietnam, National Education-For-all Action Plan, 2003-2015,
HanoiJune 2003
Socialist Republic of Vietnam, Higher Education Law, passedby the General Assembly,
June 2005
Ministry of Education and Training:
--11-- Higher Education Reform in Vietnam, Detailed Project Draft, Hanoi, April 2005 -
Volume 1; andVolume 2, Annex - Higher Education Renovation in Vietnam Project,
(2006-2010 period), April 2005 - [these papers detail the HERA program]
--21- Funding Policy Frameworkfor Higher Education, a report of the Working Group
(established underHEP1) to review "Funding Formula andPricing Policy for HE," date
unknown.



                                           97

--31-- Charter of Higher Education Institutions -Promulgated together with Decision
No./2001/QD-TTg of 2001 of the Prime Minister)
--4/-- Regulationfor the Implementation of the Quality Improvement Grants (QIGs),
Higher Education Project N o 1.
--51-- Autonomy and Accountability in Higher Education Institutions, Draft Report of the
Working Group (establishedunder HEP1) on University Charters andRegulations,
MOET, date unknown
--6/-- Decentralization in Managementfor Universities in Vietnam,Draft Report of the
Working Group (establishedunderHEP1) on University Charters andRegulations,
MOET, date unknown
--7/-- Vietnam Education and TrainingDirectory, (Third Edition), preparedby the
International Cooperation Departmentof MOET, 2004
--8l--`Conference Conclusions: "Renovation in Higher Education in Vietnam -
Integration and challenge"', Speech delivered by the Minister o f MOET, MrNguyen
MinhHien,2005.
--91--Statementabout the Draft on the Renovation inVietnam's Higher Education (2006-
2020), Hanoi, 22 July 2005, Doc No 6300/TTr-BGD&ST

(111)Bank andother ODAAgency Publications andUnpublishedPapers
(# denotes unpublishedpapers)
TheBank:
--1/Aide Memoire of the Pre-Appraisal Missionfor HEP2, October-November, 2005
--21 Aide Memoire of the Supewision Missionfor HEPl & HEP2 Preparation, April-
May 2005.
-31 2004 Annual Report on OperationsEvaluation, Washington DC, 2005
--4/ OED andImpact Evaluation-A DiscussionNote
-51     Constructing Knowledge societies: New Challenges for Tertiary Education,
Washington DC, 2002.

Other ODA Agencies:
Lamoureux, Marvin, and Ngo Thanh Can, Vietnam Education Sector: Management
Capacity Building and Institutional Development -A Review of Current Documentation,
prepared for the Canadian International Development Association (CIDA), Gatineaux,
Canada, February2005

(IV) PublishedReferences and Other Papers
(# denotes unpublishedpapers obtained by the Preparation Team)
Pham LanHuong& Gerald W Fry, "Universities inVietnam," inAltbach, Philip G, and
T Umokoshi (eds), Asian Universities: Historical Perspectives and Contemporary
Challenges, John HopkinsUniversityPress, Baltimore, 2004, pages 301-331
DepartmentofEducation, Science andTraining, Australia, Evaluation of the Cooperative
Research Centers Programme, July 2003 (prepared as commissionedresearchby
HowardPartners Pty Ltd).
Department of Education, Science and Training, Australia, Research Quality Framework:
Assessing the Quality and Impact of Research in Australia,- Issues Paper, March2005,
(released for public consultation by the Expert Advisory Group for an RQF).



                                             98

                                       Annex 15: Statementof Loans and Credits
                          VIETNAM: SECONDHIGHEREDUCATIONPROJECT

                                                                                                                Difference between
                                                                                                                expected and actual
                                                          Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements

Project ID F Y  Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA       SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

P104097    2007 VN - Program 135 Phase2 Support Credit    0.00     50.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   50.71     0.00        0.00
P101608    2007 VN-Avian & Human Influenza Control        0.00     20.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   20.55     0.00        0.00
                &Prep
PO82295    2007 VN-COASTAL CITIES ENVMT SANIT.            0.00   124.70       0.00       5.00   0.00  126.74     0.00        0.00
PO85071    2006 Customs Modernization                     0.00     65.90      0.00       0.00   0.00   66.58    -0.25        0.00
PO84871    2006 VN-TRANS & DlSTRlB 2                      0.00   200.00       0.00       0.00   0.00  199.77    15.89        0.00
PO79663    2006 VN-Mekong Regional Health Support Proj    0.00     70.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   71.60    -1.65        0.00
PO79344    2006 VN -1CT Development                       0.00     93.72      0.00       0.00   0.00   87.20     3.21        0.00
PO77287    2006 VN-RRDRWSS                                0.00     45.87      0.00       0.00   0.00   46.93     3.17        0.00
PO75407    2006 VN-RT3                                    0.00   106.25       0.00       0.00   0.00  108.92     8.00        0.00
PO73361    2006 VN -Natural Disaster RiskMngt Project     0.00     86.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   79.20    -6.08        0.00
PO74688    2005 VN-RURAL ENERGY 2                         0.00   220.00       0.00       0.00   0.00  220.45    59.33        0.00
PO74414    2005 VN - GEF Forest Sector Development Proj   0.00      0.00      0.00       9.00   0.00    8.50     2.67        0.53
PO80074    2005 VN-GEF-RURAL ENERGY 2                     0.00      0.00      0.00       5.25   0.00    4.95     0.20        0.00
PO73763    2005 VN-WATER SUPPLY DEV.                      0.00   112.64       0.00       0.00   0.00  109.56     8.97        0.00
PO82604    2005 VN-HIV/AlDS Prevention Project            0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   26.14    -1.51        0.00
PO82627    2005 Payment Systemand Bank Modernization      0.00   105.00       0.00       0.00   0.00   99.57    44.83       30.33
                2
PO85080    2005 VN-ROAD SAFETY                            0.00     31.73      0.00       0.00   0.00   29.26     6.72        0.00
PO66051    2005 VN - Forest Sector Development Project    0.00     39.50      0.00       0.00   0.00   48.17     6.87        0.98
PO85260    2005 VN-EFA Support Program                    0.00 ,   50.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   32.13     0.00        0.00
PO88362    2005 VN-Avian Influenza Emergency Recovery     0.00      5.00      0.00       0.00   0.00    2.10     1.88        0.00
                Pr
PO70197    2004 VN-URBAN UPGRADING                        0.00   222.47       0.00       0.00   0.00  203.94     7.00        0.00
PO59663    2004 VN-ROAD NETWORK IMPROVT                   0.00   225.26       0.00       0.00   0.00  208.98  110.84         0.00
PO65898    2004 VIETNAM WATER RESOURCES                   0.00   157.80       0.00       0.00   0.00  149.25    33.48        0.00
                ASSISTANCE
PO44803    2003 VN-PRIMARY EDUC FOR                       0.00   138.76       0.00       0.00   0.00  154.66    46.60         3.20
                DISADVANTAGED CHILRE
PO75399    2003 Public Financial Management Reform        0.00     54.33      0.00                     50.54                 0.17
                Proj.                                                                    0.00   0.00            40.87

PO71019    2003 VN-GEF DEMAND SIDE MGMT &                 0.00      0.00      0.00       5.50   0.00    2.80     2.14        0.00
                ENERGY
PO51838    2002 VN-PRIMARY TEACHER                        0.00     19.84      0.00      0.00    2.39    7.48     6.55        5.78
                DEVELOPMENT
PO59936    2002 VN -Northem Mountains Poverty             0.00   110.00       0.00      0.00    0.00   23.01    -4.45        0.00
                Reduction
PO73778    2002 VN-GEF-System Energy Equitization-       0.00       0.00      0.00      4.50    0.00    3.52     3.52        0.00
                Renewa
PO73305    2002 VN-Regional Blood Transfusion Centers    0.00      38.20      0.00      0.00    0.00   37.44    26.32        0.00
PO72601    2002 VN - RuralFinance 11Project              0.00    200.00       0.00      0.00    0.00   14.13   -67.45        0.00
PO66396    2002 VN-SYSTEM ENERGY,                        0.00    225.00       0.00      0.00    0.00  185.49  141.89        80.64
                EQUITIZATION & RENEWAB
PO62748    2001VN COMMUNITY BASED RURAL
                   -                                     0.00    102.78       0.00      0.00    0.00   47.27    25.66        0.00
                INFRA.




                                                               99

PO42927 2001  VN-MkgTramp & Flood Protection       0.00 110.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   52.67   35.65    6.28
PO52037 2001  VN-HCMC ENVMTL SANIT.                0.00 166.34   0.00   0.00    0.00  149.39   98.01   88.76
PO42568 2000  VN COASTAL Wetliprot Dev
                 -                                 0.00   31.80  0.00   0.00    0.00    3.60    1.62    1.62
PO51553  1999 VN-3 CITIES SANITATION               0.00   80.50  0.00   0.00    7.40   25.16  26.15    23.81
PO04845  1999 VN MEKONGDELTA WATER
                 -                                 0.00 101.80   0.00   0.00    0.00   24.19   18.74   -8.70
PO04828  1999 VN-HIGHER EDUC.                      0.00   83.30  0.00   0.00    0.00   15.17    8.21    8.83
PO45628  1998 VN-TRANSMISSION & DISTR              0.00 199.00   0.00   0.00  39.69    31.88   62.86    2.85
                                                                   ~            ~~


                                            Total  000  3,69349  000   2925   4948   2,82960  77646   24508




                                                       100

                                                     VIETNAM
                                             STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                          HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                             InMillionsofUS Dollars


                                                      Committed                                  Disbursed

                                                     IFC                                       IFC

FY Approval Company                      Loan      Equity     Quasi   -
                                                                      Partic.      Loan        Equity    Quasi  Partic.

2003        ACB-Vietnam                  0.00         5.02     0.00    0.00          0.00       5.02      0.00   0.00
2002        CyberSoft                    0.00         0.06     0.00    0.00          0.00       0.06      0.00   0.00
2002        Dragon Capital               0.00         0.00     1.05    0.00          0.00       0.00      1.05   0.00
2002        F-V Hospital                 5.00         0.00     3.OO    0.00          5.00       0.00      3.oo   0.00
2005        Khai Vy                      6.00         0.00     0.00    0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00   0.00
1998        MFLVinh Phat                 0.13         0.00     0.00    0.00          0.13       0.00      0.00   0.00
1997        Nghi Son Cement              10.09        0.00     0.00    1.88         10.09       0.00      0.00   1.88
2004        Olam                         20.00        0.00     0.00    0.00         20.00       0.00      0.00   0.00
2005        PaulMaitland                 7.20         0.00     0.00    0.00          7.20       0.00      0.00   0.00
2001        RMITVietnam                  7.25         0.00     0.00    0.00          3.50       0.00      0.00   0.00
2006        SABCO                        20.00        0.00     0.00    0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00   0.00
2003        Sacombank                    0.00         2.77     0.00    0.00          0.00       2.77      0.00   0.00
2004        Sacombank                    0.00         2.31     0.00    0.00          0.00       2.31      0.00   0.00
2005        Sacombank                    0.00         2.05     0.00    0.00          0.00       2.05      0.00   0.00
2006        Sacombank                    0.00         3.05     0.00    0.00          0.00       3.05      0.00   0.00
2002        VEIL                         0.00         0.00     2.00    0.00          0.00       0.00      2.00   0.00
2003        VEIL                         0.00         7.41     0.00    0.00          0.00       7.41      0.00   0.00
2007        VEIL                         0.00         6.15     0.00    0.00          0.00       6.15      0.00   0.00

                       Total portfolio:   75.67      28.82     6.05    1.88         45.92      28.82      6.05   1.88




                                                                                 ~~          ~


                                                                 Approvals PendingCommitment

             FY Approval    Company                          Loan      Equity         Quasi        Partic
             2000           MFL-AA                         0.00        0.00            0.00         0.00
             2006           CCS-Asia                       0.02        0.00            0.00         0.00
             2000           Interflour                     0.01        0.00            0.00         0.01
             2006           CII-Vietnam                    0.00        0.00            0.00         0.00
             2000           MFLMondial                     0.00        0.00            0.00         0.00
             2002           F-V Hospital                   0.00        0.00            0.00         0.00
             1999           MFLMinhMinh                    0.00        0.00            0.00         0.00
             1999           MFLChau Giang                  0.00        0.00            0.00         0.00

                                  Total pendingcommitment:    0.03     0.00            0.00         0.01




                                                          101

                                           Annex 16: Countryat a Glance
                     VIETNAM: SECONDHIGHER EDUCATIONPROJECT


                                                                     East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 Asia B    Low-
                                                        Vietnam    Pacific income     IDevelopment diamond'

2005
Popuiation,mid-year(millions)                                83.0    1.865    2,353
GNIpercapita (Atlasmethod, US$)                                                                 -      Life expectancy
                                                             620     1,627     580
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                             51.4    3,067    1364                            T
Average annual growth, 1999-05
Population (%)                                                 1.1     0.9      1.9
Labor force (4                                                2.1       1.3     2.3      GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                         per                                  primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1999-05)                                 capita                            enrollment
Poverty(%ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                29
UrbanPO pulation (%of totalpopulation)                        26        41      30
Life expectancyat birth (pars)                                70        70      59
infant mortality(per 10001ivebirths)                           I7       29      80
Chiid malnutrition (%o fchildren under5)                      28         15     39      [    Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)              85        79      75
Literacy(%ofpopulafionage159                                  90        91      62
Gross primaryenroliment (%ofschool-agepopulation)             98        115     0 4                .-.- Vietnam
  Male                                                        0 1       16      10                      Low-incomegroup
  Female                                                      94        114     99

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1985         1995    2004     2005       /Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                               14.1        20.7     45.2     52.4
Gross capital formationlGDP                                   27.1    35.6
Exports of goods and ServicesIGDP                            32.8     66.4              I                   Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                    6.0     28.3
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                     8.2     32.2

Current account baiance1GDP                      -3.8        -8.5      -3.8
interest paymentslGDP                             0.0         0.4       0.7
Total debt/GDP                                    0.4       Q2.6      39.4                                                 ormation

Total debt servicelexports                                    4.7       2.6             I

Present value of debt1GDP                                              34.1                                   11
Presentvalue of debt/exports                                          50.4
                                                                                                         indebtedness
                                    1985-95 1995-05        2004     2005 2005.09
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                      6.5      6.9         7.7       8.4     7.5              - -     Vietnam
GDP per capita                           4.3      5.6         6.6       7.4     6.4                      Low-income group
Exports of goods and services           25.2     15.8        27.9      15.0     15.0



STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                               1985         1995    2004     2005
(%of GDP)                                                                                Growth of capital and GDP (%)               1
Agriculture                                     40.2         27.2      21.8
industry                                        27.4         28.8      40.1
 Manufacturing                                  20.5          15.0    20.3
Services                                        32.5         44.1     38.2

Household final consumption expenditure             ..       73.8     65.3                      00       01    02    03    04
Generalgov't final consumption expenditure                    8.2      6.4
imports of goods and services                       ....                                            ~----*GCF       -GDP
                                                             41.9     73.6              ~




                                            1985-95 1995.05         2004     2005
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                    Growth o f exports and imports (%)          I
Agriculture                                       3.5         4.1      3.5
Industry                                          7.3         0.0      0.2
 Manufacturing                                   4.3          11.0     0.1
Services                                         8.4          5.7      7.5

Householdfinal consumption expenditure              ..        5.2       7.1
Generalgov't final consumption expenditure          ..        3.8      7.8                      00      01    02     03    04
Gross capital formation                         25.8          9.6      0.5                     ------Exports      -Inports
imports of goods and services                   24.2          6.5     25.2


Note:2005data are preiiminaryestimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics LDB database.
'Thediamonds showfour key indicators inthecountry(inboid)comparedMth its income-groupaverage.ifdataaremissing,thediamondwiii
                                                                   102

                                                                                                                               Yietnam

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                 1985     1995      2004    2005
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                       7.8     8.3
Implicit GDP deflator                                      17.0       7.9     8.4

Government finance                                                                                                                      I
(% of GDP, includescurrent grants)
Current revenue                                           23.3       23.1
Current budget balance                                      6.0       6.6             c                GDP deflator   *CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                                     0.7      -1.4

TRADE
                                                 1985     1995      2004    2005
(US$ millions)                                                                          Export and Import levels (US0 mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                507   5,198     26,503
 Rice                                                      547        950
 Fuel                                                     1,063     5,671
 Manufactures                                             1,785    14,842
Total imports (cif)                                930    7,543    31,954
  Food
 Fuel and energy                                            856     3,574
 Capital goods                                           2,097      8,624

Export price index (2000=100)                               108       107                       99  00     01    02   03       04   05

Import price index (2000=100)                               103       106                         ElExports          Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                                   106       101

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                 1985     1995      2004    2005
(US$ millions)                                                                          Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services                             7,607    30,363               5
imports of goods and services                           10,603     33,608
Resource balance                                  -496  -2,996     -3,245
                                                                                        0
Net income                                         -90    -279       -940                     99  00     01
Net current transfers                               52     474      2,464

Current account balance                           -534  -2,801     -1,701               5

Financingitems (net)                               265    3,301     2,395
Changes in net reserves                            269    -500       -694  -1,261

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                     1,376     6,314   7,575
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                   8.3 11,038.3  15,772.3 15,987.1

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                 1985     1995      2004    2005
(US$ millions)                                                                        1 Composition of 2004 debt (US0 mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                61  25,428     17,825
  IBRD                                               0        0         0       0
  IDA                                               54      231     3,039   3,187     I           G: 2,136

Total debt service                                   2      364       781
  iBRD                                               0        0         0       0
  IDA                                                0        2        37     44

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                                   38      340       387
  Official creditors                                 7      58      1,278
  Private creditors                                  0      356        10
  Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)             0        0     1,610
  Portfolio equity (net inflows)                     0        0         0             I             E 9,249
World Bank program
  Commitments                                        0     265        711               A IBRD                            E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                      7      47        444    391                    -
                                                                                      , C - IMF
                                                                                        B IDA
                                                                                         --       D Other multilateral    F Private
  Principal repayments                               0        1         8      14                                         G Short-tern
                                                                                                                            ---
  Net flows                                          7      46       436     376
  Interestpayments                                   0        2        29     31
  Net transfers                                      7      45       407     347


Note: This table was produced from the Development EconomicsLDB database.                                                        6/13/06




                                                                103


                             102                                     104                                        106                                          108                                                          110



                                 C H I N A
                                                                                         4
                                                                                          H
                                                                                          Giang                 5
                                                                                                                         Cao Bang
                                                                                                                               `                                     C H I N A

                                                           Lo Cai
                                             Phong Tho

                                                 1                3
             22                                                                             8           9     Bac Can
                                                                                                                `
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22

                                                                                              Tuyn                                   Lang
                                                                                7             Quang                                      ,
                                                                                                                                      Son
                                                                                Yn Bi                  13
                                                                                                              Thai Nguyen          10
                                               2          Tay Bac U.
                                                            Thun Chu                       Vit Tr12            Thai Nguyen U.
                                                                                                                                                                     Co To
                                                                                                    Vinh Yen
                                             Din Bin Ph        Sn La                 11                             Bc Giang                                 Vinh Thuc
                                                                                                                                                            Cai Chien
                                                                                                                     Bc           14
                                                              6                                            16                               15          Cai Bau
                                                                                                  HANOI            17Ninh20                    Ha Long        Co To
                                                                                                 H Dng               Ha
                                                                                                    Ha   18     19    Dng      Hai Phong
                                                                                                    Bnh    Hung Yen           21          Cat Ba

                                                                                                 22
                                                                                                       H Nam    23    24
                                                                                                                           Thi Bnh   Hanoi National U.
                                                                                                                                       Hanoi U. of Agriculture
                                                                                                                       Nam             Hanoi U. of Education
                                                                                                       Ninh Bnh       Dinh            Hanoi U. of Foreign Trade
                                                                                                                 25    26              Hanoi U. of Medicine
             20                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20
                                                                                                     27                                Hanoi U. of Technology
                                                                                                                                       Hanoi U. of Transport & Communications

                         LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                         Thanh Ha                National Economics U.



                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                           G u l f
                                                                                                                 Me                               o f
                                                                                          28                   Nghi Son
                                                                                                                                           T o n k i n                                                        Hainan I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (China)

                                                                                                             Vinh U.
                                                                                                            Vinh



                                                                                                                  H Tinh
                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                             29

             18                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18

                                                                          Mekong


                                                                                                                                    Dng Hi
                                                                                                                          30

                                 T H A I L A N D                                                                                                      Con Co


                                                                                                                                                Dng H

                                                                                                                                           31
                                                                                                                                                          Hu
                                                                                                                                                               Hu U.

                                                                                                                                                        32                       Danang U.
                                                                                                                                                                    33
             16                                                                                                                                                              D Nang                                             16

                                           VIETNAM                                                                                                                                      Cham



                                                                                                                                                                  34                     Tam Ky

                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ly Son
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Re

                                                                                                                                                                                                   Qung Ngai

                                                                                                                                                                                          35

                                                                                                                                                                    36
                          102

                                                                                                                                                                         Kon Tum

                                          V I E T N A M                                                                                                                                            38

                         HIGHER EDUCATION                                                            14                                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                                                                                         Play Cu                               Quy Nhon
                                                                                                                                                                               37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Xanh
                                   MAJOR PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES

                                   UNIVERSITIES IN DISADVANTAGED REGIONS                                                                                                                                   39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tuy Ha
                                                                                                               C A M B O D I A                                          40
                                             PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                    Bun Ma
                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                         Thut

                                                                                                                                                                                 Tay Nguyen U.
                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                           Gom

                                             INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                                                              42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nha Trang
                                                BOUNDARIES                                                                                                      41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tre
                                                                                                                                                             Gia Nghia
                                                                                                     12                                                                        D Lat                                            12
              PROVINCES:                                                                                                                    43
              1 Lai Chau          33 Da Nang                                                                                                                                                           45
                                                                                                                                      Dng                                   44
              2 Dien Bien         34 Quang Nam                                                                                         Xoi
              3 Lao Cai           35 Quang Ngai                                                                                                                                                              Phan Rang-
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Thp Chm
              4 Ha Giang          36 Kon Tum                                                 Mekong                     46
              5 Cao Bang          37 Gia Lai                                                                                                        48
                                                                                                                    Ty Ninh          47
              6 Son La            38 Binh Dinh                                                                                        Thu Du                        49
              7 Yen Bai           39 Phu Yen                                                                                            Mt
                                                                                                                                            Bin Ha                           Phan Thit
              8 Tuyen Quang       40 Dak Lak                                                                                        50
              9 Bac Kan           41 Dak Nong                                                                                                            HCMC National U.
              10 Lang Son         42 Khanh Hoa                                                          54
                                                                                                            Dong Thap       52          Ho Chi Minh City HCMC U. of Economics
              11 Phu Tho          43 Binh Phuoc                                                                                                          HCMC U. of Education
                                                                                                            Educ. U.                                51
                                                                                                                                  Tan An                 HCMC U. of Medicine & Pharmacy
              12 Vinh Phuc        44 Lam Dong                                                56               Cao Lanh   53
              13 Thai Nguyen      45 Ninh Thuan                                           Long Xuyn
                                                                                     An Giang U.                  Vinh Long
                                                                                                                    ~            My~,Tho          Vung Tu
                                                                                                                                                    ~
              14 Bac Giang        46 Tay Ninh                                                                                     Bn Tre
                                                              Phu
              15 Quang Ninh       47 Binh Duong               Quoc                                     60            57            55
                                                                                     Rach Gi
             10
              16 Ha Noi           48 Dong Nai            10               Nghe                            Cn       Cn Tho U.                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                           Tho                                                                                              Hai
              17 Bac Ninh         49 Binh Thuan                                     Tre
                                                                                                59           61                      Tra Vinh U.
              18 Ha Tay           50 Ho Chi Minh City                           Rai                                      Tr Vinh
                                                                                                        Vi Thanh                       MEKONG DELTA
              19 Hung Yen         51 Ba Ria-Vung Tau                Nam Du                                                      58
              20 Hai Duong      Gulf
                                  52 Long An                                                                    62     Sc Trang
              21 Hai Phong        53 Tien Giang                                                                                                                 0    25     50     75     100    125      150 Kilometers
              22 Hoa Binh         54 Dong Thap                                                         63
                                                          Tho Chu
              23 Ha Nam          of55Ben Tre                                           C Mau           Bac Liu

              24 Thai Binh        56 An Giang                                                                                                                   0          25            50            75             100 Miles

              25 Ninh Binh        57 Vinh Long                                               64
              26 Nam Dinh         58 Tra Vinh
              27 Thanh Hoa   Thailand
                                  59 Kien Giang                                                                              Con Dau

JANUAR        28 Nghe An          60 Can Tho                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.        IBRD
              29 Ha Tinh          61 Hau Giang                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
              30 Quang Binh       62 Soc Trang                                            Khoai                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
      Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   35262
                                                                                                                                                               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
       2007   31 Quang Tri        63 Bac Lieu
              32 Thua Thien102
                            Hue   64 Ca Mau                          104                                           106                                             108

