Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4328-VN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Higher Education Project) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 22, 2007 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4328-VN 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated November 22, 2007, entered into between SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to thirty-nine million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 39,000,000) (variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist 
in financing the project described in   Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  
 2.02 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 2.03 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Recipient shall carry out Parts I, II.
A
and III of the Project through its Ministry of 
Page  4
2
Education and Training, and Part II.B of the Project through selected higher education 
institutions, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
under it (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled; 
(b) 
(i) the PMU has been established and its key staff appointed in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph A.1, Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) 
said PMU has adopted a Project Operations Manual acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.4, Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (iii) said PMU has established a computerized 
accounting system satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the 
provisions of the Financial Management Manual referred to in paragraph 
A.4(b)(ii), Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and  
 
(c) 
MOET has: (i) issued an investment decision approving at least       twelve (12) 
TRIG Sub-project proposals; and (ii) signed TRIG Agreements with at least six 
(6) Participating HEIs whose TRIG        Sub-project proposals have been 
approved. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5
.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative 
is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State Bank 
of Vietnam. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Ly Thai To 
Hanoi, Vietnam 
 
Page  5
3
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
  412248 
  (84-4) 
825 
0612 
Hanoi 
   NHTWVT 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423(MCI) or        (1-202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By: /s/ Mr. Nguyen Van Giau 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Mr. Ajay Chhibber 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the quality of teaching and research in 
universities in Vietnam so as to improve the employability of graduates and the relevance of 
research.   
The Project consists of the following parts: 
PART I
:
Capacity Building for Policy Development
Carry out a program to build the capacity of the Ministry of Education and Training to 
develop policies designed to establish sound fundamentals for the higher education sector, 
consisting of: 
A. 
in the area of governance: (i) developing policy options and recommendations on the 
organization and governance of the higher education system, on regulatory frameworks for the 
integration of advanced research and teaching, and for the promotion of private sector investment 
in the sector; and (ii) developing and testing a higher education policy and monitoring 
information system to monitor performance of the sector; 
B. 
in the area of financing: developing policy options and recommendations on: (i) the 
allocation of public resources to public and non-public higher education institutions; and (ii) 
student tuition fees and financial assistance for disadvantaged students; and 
 
C. 
in the area of quality assurance: developing policy options and recommendations on: (i) 
accreditation standards and the establishment of an independent accreditation agency; and (ii) the 
admissions system of higher education institutions.   
 
PART II
:
Capacity Building for University Teaching and Research 
Carry out a program to strengthen teaching and research at selected higher education 
institutions, consisting of: 
A. 
strengthening the management capacity of said institutions, including development of 
leadership and management skills and support for institutional quality assurance plans; and  
B. 
providing Teaching and Research Innovation Grants.  
PART III
:
Project Management; Monitoring and Evaluation
A. 
Strengthen the institutional capacity of MOET to plan, manage and coordinate Project 
implementation, including auditing of Project accounts.  
B. 
Design and carry out a program of Project monitoring and evaluation. 
C. 
Prepare and design a potential follow-on operation to support the implementation of 
Vietnam’s Higher Education Reform Agenda. 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I.
 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient, through MOET, shall establish and, thereafter throughout the 
period of Project implementation, maintain a Project Management Unit under the overall 
responsibility of the vice-minister for Higher Education to be responsible for the 
management, coordination, supervision and reporting on all Project activities, including 
supervision of the implementation of the TRIG sub-projects at Participating HEIs and 
provision of support to the TMUs of Participating HEIs. 
(b) 
The PMU shall be provided with sufficient resources, under the direction of 
experienced managers, and staffed with competent personnel in adequate numbers, 
including: a Project director; a coordinator for each of the policy areas of governance, 
financing and quality assurance under Part I of the Project, drawn from among senior 
staff members of, respectively, the Department of Higher Education, the Department of 
Planning and Finance and the General Department of Education Testing and 
Accreditation; a coordinator for each of the areas of Project administration, financial 
management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation, a TRIG manager, an internal 
auditor, an accountant and a cashier; all with terms of reference, qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association. 
(c) 
Within the PMU, the Project Director together with the coordinators on 
governance, financing and quality assurance and the TRIG manager shall constitute the 
senior management group with special responsibility for ensuring the integration and 
coordination of policy development and Project activities. 
2. 
By no later than November 30, 2007, the Recipient shall establish and, thereafter 
throughout the period of Project implementation, maintain an inter-ministerial Project 
Advisory Committee to provide guidance in Project implementation taking into 
consideration the views of various line ministries and agencies; said Committee shall be 
under the chairmanship of MOET and include representation from the Ministries of 
Science and Technology, of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs, of Agriculture and Rural 
Development, of Finance, of Planning and Investment, State Bank of Vietnam, Office of 
Government.  To mobilize support for the Project from the private sector and the 
academic community, the Project Advisory Committee shall also invite the participation 
of representatives of key industries and academia. 
3. 
(a) 
To assist the PMU in handling, under the supervision of its procurement 
coordinator, procurement activities under Parts I, II.A and III, and the tasks of overseeing 
and coordinating the procurement activities of the Participating HEIs under their 
respective TRIG sub-projects, the Recipient, through MOET, shall engage, by no later 
than November 30, 2007 and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this 
Schedule, at least two (2) procurement consultants with qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
Page  8
6
(b) 
To assist the PMU in handling, under the supervision of its financial management 
coordinator, the tasks of budgeting, managing Project fund flows, accounting, reporting 
and internal control, the Recipient, through MOET, shall engage, by no later than January 
31, 2008, and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, a 
financial management firm with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association. 
4. 
(a) 
To guide the implementation of the Project, the Recipient, through MOET: (i) 
shall prepare and put into effect a Project Operations Manual acceptable to the 
Association; and (ii) shall not, and shall not permit to, amend, revise, abrogate or waive 
said Manual or any part thereof without the prior concurrence of the Association.  
 
(b) 
Said Project Operations Manual shall include: (i) a Procurement Manual 
consistent with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule 2; (ii) a Financial 
Management Manual setting forth detailed guidelines, procedures and requirements 
consistent with the provisions of Section II of this Schedule 2 for disbursement of funds, 
internal control arrangements, record keeping, reporting and auditing of Project records 
and accounts; (iii) a TRIG Manual setting forth: eligibility criteria for Participating HEIs 
together with the list of said Participating HEIs (as such list may be amended from time 
to time with the prior concurrence of the Association); selection criteria, and guidelines 
and procedures for the preparation, submission, review and approval of TRIG sub-project 
proposals; guidelines, procedures and requirements regarding procurement, financial 
management, eligibility of expenditures and disbursement under the TRIGs, consistent 
with the provisions of Sections II and III of this Schedule 2 and with the provisions of the 
Financial Management Manual; guidelines and procedures for monitoring and evaluation 
of the implementation of the TRIG sub-projects and their impact; and (iv) a Project 
implementation plan.  
5. 
By no later than March 31, 2008, the Recipient, through MOET, shall engage an 
independent monitoring and evaluation firm with qualifications, experience and under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association.  
6. 
By no later than November 30 of each year, commencing in 2007, the Recipient, through 
MOET, shall provide to the Association, for its review and comment, an annual work 
plan for the next succeeding calendar year, including the financing plan and budget 
therefor; and thereafter, shall implement such plan as shall have been agreed with the 
Association, in a manner acceptable to the Association.  
B. TRIG 
Sub-projects.
 
1. 
The Recipient, through MOET, shall review, select and approve TRIG Sub-projects 
proposed by Participating HEIs in accordance with the provisions of the TRIG Manual 
referred to in paragraph A.4 of this Section I.  
2. 
The Recipient, through MOET, shall disburse the proceeds of a TRIG to a Participating 
HEI for an eligible TRIG Sub-project only upon:  
(a) 
said Participating HEI having signed a TRIG Agreement with the PMU, 
in form and substance acceptable to the Recipient and to the Association, no later than 
December 31, 2008; 
Page  9
7
(b) 
said Participating HEI having: (i) established its TRIG Management 
Unit; said Unit to be provided with adequate resources, under the direction of qualified 
managers, and staffed with competent personnel in sufficient numbers, including at least 
one (1) accountant and one (1) cashier, and procurement staff, in all cases with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to MOET and to the 
Association; and (ii) set up a computerized accounting system, acceptable to MOET and 
to the Association, and consistent with the financial management requirements of the 
TRIG Manual, the provisions of the Financial Management Manual and the provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule 2; and  
(c) 
said Participating HEI having undertaken, pursuant to its TRIG 
Agreement with MOET, to: (i) carry out its TRIG Sub-project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical and educational, financial, managerial 
and environmental standards and practices satisfactory to the Recipient and to the 
Association; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources 
required to perform its obligations under said TRIG Agreement; (iii) procure the goods, 
works and services to be financed out of its TRIG in accordance with the provisions of 
the TRIG Manual; (iv) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Recipient and to the 
Association, the progress of its TRIG Sub-project and the achievement of its objectives; 
(v) maintain a financial management system and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Recipient 
and to the Association and consistent with the TRIG Manual, in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to its TRIG Sub-project; and, at 
the request of the Recipient or the Association, promptly have such financial statements 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Recipient and the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Recipient and 
the Association, and furnish the statements as so audited to the Recipient and the 
Association; (vi) enable the Recipient and the Association to inspect the TRIG Sub-
project, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (vii) prepare and 
furnish to the Recipient and to the Association all such information as the Recipient or 
the Association shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
3. 
The Recipient shall, through MOET, exercise its rights under each TRIG Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the TRIG and the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive any TRIG 
Agreement or any of the provisions thereof.   
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project Report shall cover 
the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report, provided that 
the last Project Report in any calendar year, shall cover the entire year. 
Page  10
8
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the closing date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain, and cause to be maintained, a financial management system 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, consolidating therein the 
quarterly unaudited interim financial reports submitted by the HEIs which are recipients 
of TRIGs. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General.
 
1.
 Goods 
and 
Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.  
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used: 
Page  11
9
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth 
in the Attachment to this Schedule 2 
(b)  Limited International Bidding 
(c)  Shopping  
(d)  Direct Contracting 
(e)  Procurement from United Nations Agencies 
C.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Quality-based Selection 
(b)  Least Cost Selection 
(c)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)  Single Source Selection 
(e)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions. 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  (a) the first 
contract for goods procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding by the 
PMU and by each TMU, regardless of the cost; (b) all contracts for goods estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; (c) the first contract for works procured on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding by each TMU, regardless of the cost; (d) the first 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm procured by the PMU and by each 
TMU, regardless of the cost; (e) all contracts for consultants’ services provided by a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (e) all contracts for 
consultants’ services provided by individuals
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more.   All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
Page  12
10
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Eligible Expenditures 
for:  
 
(a) goods under Parts I, 
II.A and III of the Project;  
 
(b) Consultants’ 
services, training and 
workshops, including study 
tours under Part III of the 
Project; 
 
(c) study tours under 
Parts I and II.A of the 
Project; and  
 
(d) Incremental 
Operating Costs under Parts 
I, II.A and III of the Project  
 
3,550,000   
 
100% 
 
(2) TRIGs under Part II.B 
of the Project: 
 
(a) for Group I HEIs 
 
(b) for Group II HEIs  
 
32,500,000 
 
2,950,000
 
100% of the amount of 
TRIG disbursed 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
39,000,000
Page  13
11
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
prior to the date hereof but on or after March 23, 2007 for Eligible Expenditures under 
Category (1). 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
Page  14
12
ATTACHMENT to SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 
The procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in 
Article 18 on 
Open Bidding of the Law on Procurement  61/2005/QH11
 dated November 29, 
2005 and 
Decree 111/2006/ND-CP, Guiding Implementation of Law on Procurement and 
Selection of Contractor Bidder in Accordance with Law on Construction
 dated September 29, 
2006 
(collectively, “National Procurement Laws”) with due consideration to economy, efficiency 
and transparency as set forth in, and broad consistency with, Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Association in May 2004 (the 
“Guidelines”) and required by paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. Whenever any procedure 
in the National Procurement Laws is inconsistent with the requirements of said paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines, the latter shall prevail, including the following: 
Eligibility
(i) 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Guidelines; 
accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for contracts financed by 
the Association for reasons other than those provided in Section I of the Guidelines. Foreign 
bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same conditions as national bidders. In 
particular, no domestic preference over foreign bidders shall be granted to national bidders in bid 
evaluation, nor shall foreign bidders be asked or required to form joint ventures with national 
bidders in order to submit a bid. Bidders located in the same province or city as the procuring 
entity shall not be given preference over bidders located outside that city or province. 
(ii) 
In addition to the foregoing requirements, equitized Government-owned enterprises in 
which the Recipient or procuring entity holds less than fifty percent of the shares are eligible to 
participate provided that the governing Board and management team are autonomous from the 
procuring entity. Military or security units or enterprises established under, reporting directly or 
indirectly to, or owned wholly or partly by, the Ministry of Defense or the Ministry of Public 
Security shall not be permitted to bid.  
Registration
(iii) 
Registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications. A foreign bidder shall not 
be required to register as a condition for submitting its bid and, if determined to be the lowest 
evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any let 
or hindrance. Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular class of contractors, and non-
classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid. 
Advertising; Time for Bid Preparation
(iv) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national newspaper, 
allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days, from the date of the invitation to bid or the date of 
availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, for the preparation and submission of 
bids, and potential bidders shall be allowed to purchase bidding documents up to any time prior to 
the deadline for the submission of bids.  In addition, the Recipient is encouraged to advertise in 
the Government Public Procurement Bulletin and on a free and open access website.  
Page  15
13
 
Standard Bidding Documents
(v) 
Standard Bidding Documents, acceptable to the Association, shall be used. 
Qualification Criteria 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents
,
and all criteria 
so specified, and only such specified criteria, shall be used to determine whether a bidder is 
qualified. Qualification shall be assessed on a pass or fail basis and merits points shall not be 
used. Such assessment shall only take into account the bidder’s capacity and resources to perform 
the contract, specifically its experience and past performance on similar contracts, capabilities 
with respect to personnel, equipment and construction and manufacturing facilities, and financial 
capacity. 
 Bid Submission, Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(vii) 
Bidders may submit bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or by mail. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids. Bids 
received after the deadline for bid submission shall be rejected and returned to the bidders 
unopened.  
(a) 
Bidding documents shall be sold to anyone who is willing to pay the required fee 
of the bidding documents which shall not exceed the costs of printing, reproduction and 
delivery, and no other conditions shall be imposed on the sale of the bidding documents.  
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria that shall be 
clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in monetary terms for 
evaluation criteria other than price; merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation. 
(c) 
A contract shall be awarded to the technically responsive bid that offers the 
lowest evaluated price and no negotiations shall be permitted. A bidder shall not be 
required, as a condition for award, to undertake obligations not specified in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted. 
(d) 
A bidder shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, 
non-substantial deviations. 
(e) 
No bidder shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the employer's 
estimate and budget ceiling without the Association’s prior concurrence. 
(f) 
A copy of the minutes of the public bid opening shall be promptly provided to all 
bidders who submitted bids, and to the Association with respect to contracts subject to 
prior review.  
Rejection of All Bids and Re-bidding
(viii) 
All bids shall not be rejected or new bids solicited without the Association’s prior written 
concurrence. 
Page  16
14
 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints
(ix) 
The Recipient shall implement an effective and independent protest mechanism allowing 
bidders to protest and to have their protests handled in a timely manner.  
Fraud and Corruption
(x) 
The Association shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or for a 
stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association, if it at any time determines 
that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive, or coercive practices in competing for, or in executing, a contract financed by the 
Association. 
Right to Inspect/Audit
(xi) 
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of a Credit shall include 
a
provision requiring bidders, suppliers, contractors to permit the Association, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and performance of the contract 
and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Association.  
License
(xii) 
Foreign contractors shall be given a reasonable opportunity to apply for and obtain 
license, which shall not be arbitrarily withheld. 
Publication of the Award of Contract
(xiii) 
The Recipient shall publish the following information on contract award in the 
Government Public Procurement Bulletin or on a free and open access website or on 
another means of publication acceptable to the Association: (a) name of each bidder 
who submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c) name and 
evaluated price of each bid that was evaluated; (d) name of bidders whose bids were 
rejected and the reasons for their rejection; and (e) name of the winning bidder, price 
it offered as well as the duration and summary scope of the contract awarded.  This 
publication shall be updated regularly. 
 
Page  17
15
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)
*
On each April 15 and October 15: 
 
commencing October 15, 2017 to and including April 
15, 2027 
 
1% 
commencing October 15, 2027 to and including April 
15, 2047 
 
2% 
The percentages represent the percentages of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  18
16
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
2. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the PHRD Grant Agreement for the financing of part 
of Parts I and II.A of the Project, to be entered into between the Recipient and the Association 
acting as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the Policy and Human Resources 
Development Fund. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
4. 
“DHE” means the Department of Higher Education within MOET, and any successor 
thereto. 
5. 
“DPF” means the Department of Planning and Finance within MOET, and any successor 
thereto. 
6. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph A.4 (b)(ii), 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
7. 
“GDETA” means the General Department of Education Testing and Accreditation within 
MOET, and any successor thereto. 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005.  
9. 
“HEI” means a higher education institution. 
10. 
“HERA” and “Higher Education Reform Agenda” means the Recipient’s strategy for the 
development of higher education and research set forth in Government Decree No. 14/2005/NQ-
CP, dated November 2, 2005. 
11. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of incremental  expenditures 
incurred by the Recipient in implementing the Project or, as the case may be, by the Participating 
HEIs in implementing their respective TRIG Sub-projects, which expenditures would not have 
been incurred absent the Project, namely travel and per diem expenses for supervision purposes, 
the costs of communication, office consumables and utilities, printing and translation, and bank 
charges, but excluding salaries and salary supplements of civil servants.    
12. 
“MOET” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Education and Training, and any successor 
thereto. 
13. 
“Project Operations Manual” means the manual prepared and adopted by MOET, and 
referred to in paragraph A.4, Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  19
17
14. 
“Participating HEIs” means, collectively, all the Group I and Group II higher education 
institutions listed in the TRIG Manual and selected by the Recipient as potential beneficiaries of 
TRIGs, as said list may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the 
Association; and a “Participating HEI” means any of said Institutions. 
15. 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit referred to paragraph A.1, Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, dated May 
11, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of 
the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraphs. 
18. 
“TMU” means a TRIG Management Unit to be established and maintained by each 
Participating HEI to manage its respective TRIG Sub-project, and referred to in paragraph 
B.2(b)(i), Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
19. 
“TRIG” and “Teaching and Research Innovation Grant” mean a grant made available 
under Part II.B of the Project pursuant to the provisions of paragraph B.2, Section I of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
20. 
“TRIG Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between MOET and a 
Participating HEI in respect of the implementation of an approved TRIG Sub-project, and 
referred to in paragraph B.2, Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
21. 
“TRIG Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph A.4(b)(iii), Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
22. 
“TRIG Sub-project” means a program of eligible activities proposed by a 
Participating HEI and approved by MOET for financing with a Teaching and Research 
Innovation Grant
 
