                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR 2316



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-43280 TF-56736)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 39.0 MILLION
                      (US$ 59.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                    SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                     FOR A

                  SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT



                                December 31, 2012




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 15, 2012)

                  Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                          VND 10,000 = US$0.35
                          US$1.00 = VND 20,840

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DETA     Department of Educational Testing and Accreditation
DHE      Higher Education Department
DO       Development Objective
DPF      Department of Planning and Financing
DPL      Development Policy Lending
GDAA     Department of Assessment and Accreditation
GoV      Government of Vietnam
FM       Financial Management
HEMPIS   Higher Education Management and Policy Information System
HEP I    First Higher Education Project
HEP II   Second Higher Education Project
HERA     Higher Education Reform Agenda
HERSP    Higher Education Reform Support Program
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development association
KPI      Key Performance Indicator
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MoET     Ministry of Education and Training
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective Development Objectives ct
PMU      Project Management Unit
PRM      Project Result Framework
QA       Quality Assurance
QEA      Quality at Entry
QSA      Quality of Supervision
SIL      Specific Investment Loans
TMU      TRIG Monitoring Unit
TRIG     Teaching and Research Innovation Grant

                         Vice President: Pamela Cox
                      Country Director: Victoria Kwakwa
                        Sector Manager: Luis Benveniste
                   Project Team Leader: Thanh Thi Mai
                            ICR Writer: Cecilia Zanetta
                                SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                            SECOND HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT



                                                     CONTENTS


DATA SHEET
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring
  I. Disbursement Graph

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 2
   3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..........................................................22
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................23
   6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................26
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...........28

ANNEXES
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...........................................................................29
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..................................................................................30
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................40
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............42
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................44
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 47
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 49
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 52
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 53

MAP
A. Basic Information
                       Socialist Republic of                   Second Higher Education
Country:                                     Project Name:
                             Vietnam                                 Project (HEP II)
                                             L/C/TF
Project ID:                  P079665                           IDA – 43280; TF-056736
                                             Number(s):
ICR Date:                   10/22/2012       ICR Type:                  Core ICR
                       Specific Investment                        Socialist Republic of
Lending Instrument:                          Borrower:
                               Loan                                      Vietnam
Original Total                               Disbursed
                        XDR 39.00 million                          XDR 36.9 million
Commitment:                                  Amount:
Environmental Category: C
Borrower:
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Implementing Agency:
Ministry of Education and Training and 22 participating universities
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:
Japan (PHRD) – Co-financing

B. Key Dates
                                                                       Revised / Actual
    Process            Date            Process         Original Date
                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review:     09/11/2003      Effectiveness:      11/01/2007       03/26/2008
  Appraisal:        03/05/2007     Restructuring(s):
                                      Mid-term
   Approval:        06/20/2007                          08/16/2010       08/16/2010
                                       Review:
                                       Closing:         06/30/2012       06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                  Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                             Low to Moderate
Bank Performance:                                          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                                       Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings             Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory     Government:             Satisfactory
                                                             PMU – Highly
Quality of                                Implementing       Satisfactory
                      Highly Satisfactory
Supervision:                              Agency / Agencies: TRIG Universities -
                                                             Satisfactory
Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
                         Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                              Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                      QAG Assessments
                          Indicators                                      Rating
     Performance                              (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Project at any time            No                                          None
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
                                        Quality of
 Problem Project at any
                               No       Supervision                        None
time (Yes/No):
                                        (QSA):
 DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Tertiary education                                          100%                91%
Central Government Administration                            0%                 9%
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for the knowledge economy                          67%               67%
Administrative and civil service reform                      33%               33%

E. Bank Staff
      Positions                    At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:                  Pamela Cox                     James W. Adams
Country Director:             Victoria Kwakwa                    Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:                Luis Benveniste                Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader:           Mai Thi Thanh                      Jeffrey Waite
ICR Team Leader:               Mai Thi Thanh
ICR Primary Authors:         Maria Cecilia Zanetta

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document – PAD)
To increase the quality of teaching and research in universities, in ways to improve the
employability of graduates and the relevance of research.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
The PDO was not modified during the life of the loan.
(a) PDO Indicators
                                          Original Target Formally           Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target      Completion or
                                             documents)          Values      Target Years
                     Proportion of TRIG-recipient universities having undergone self-
Indicator 1          evaluation and external evaluation at least one under the national pilot
                     accreditation system
Value
quantitative or                 3                    n.a.                                    20
Qualitative)
Date achieved              6/30/2007             6/30/2012                        6/30/2012
                     Achieved: The twenty-two TRIG-recipient universities have
                     undergone a self-evaluation process consistent with the guidelines
Comments             under the national pilot accreditation system. Of these self-evaluations,
(incl. %             twenty have been subject to an external evaluation and have been
achievement)         deemed to achieve accreditation standards. Actual accreditation has not
                     been granted, however, since new legislation calls for independent
                     accreditation agencies, which are not still operational in Vietnam.
                     Number of articles published by academic staff in the previous
Indicator 2          academic year in international refereed academic journals in TRIG-
                     recipient universities.
                                                                                 A total of 508
                         A total of 207       Greater than the
                                                                              articles, incl. 472
                      articles, incl. 214 in baseline in all
Value                                                                          in science, 30 in
                         sciences, 20 in      three sub-fields
quantitative or                                                                 social sciences,
                      social sciences, and (later specified as
Qualitative)                                                                   and 6 in the arts
                      none in the arts and a total of 250 in
                                                                              and humanities in
                      humanities in 2006i          ISRs)
                                                                                     2011
Date achieved               6/30/2007            6/30/2012                        6/30/2012
                     Achieved: The number of publications by TRIG universities in peer-
                     reviewed academic journals more than doubled between 2006 and
                     2011, particularly in the sciences. While this increase cannot be fully
Comments
                     attributed to the TRIG grants, they have had a substantial impact.
(incl. %
                     During the life of the project, TRIG funding has resulted, directly o
achievement)
                     indirectly, in a total of 2,037 and 876 national and international
                     publications, respectively, including academic journals, conference
                     proceedings, and theses and dissertations.1




1
  These include publications resulting from TRIG-funded projects, Ph.D. dissertations and Master’s theses
from TRIG-funded students, publications resulting from research that utilized TRIG-funded equipment, and
articles that were presented at professional meetings using TRIG funding.
(b) Intermediate Output Indicators

                                       Original Target Formally           Actual Value
                                         Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator      Baseline Value
                                           approval         Target       Completion or
                                          documents)        Values        Target Years
              Component 1 – Capacity Building for Policy Development
                 Analytic work and presentation of policy options for the development
Indicator 1
                 of higher education governance issues produced.
                                                                       Several important
                                        Analytical work
                                                                          policy studies
Value                                  to be phased into
                                                                            have been
(quantitative            None           DPL at time of
                                                                       produced, incl. the
or Qualitative)                           adoption of
                                                                        Higher Education
                                         policy option
                                                                           Master Plan
Date achieved         6/30/2007            6/30/2012                        6/30/2012
                 Achieved: Several pieces of analytical work have been completed
                 focusing on various aspects of higher education governance. Among
                 these studies is the Higher Education Master Plan, which provides an
                 overview of the strengths and weaknesses of Vietnam’s higher
                 education system and its governance mechanisms. It has been used as a
Comments         key input by the MoET in the drafting of their recommendations to the
(incl. %         Party on higher education reform as well as by the Bank’s team in the
achievement)     definition of the policy actions included under the DPL operations.
                 Several of its recommendations are reflected in the newly enacted
                 Higher Education Act (June 2012) as well as several regulations issued
                 by the Prime Minister and the MoET. Other studies included an
                 overview of private universities, as well as an assessment of the impact
                 of the adoption of a credit-based system.
                 Analytic work and presentation of policy options for the development
Indicator 2
                 of higher education finance mechanisms produced.
                                                                        Several important
                                                                          policy studies
                                                                            have been
                                        Analytical work                   produced, incl.
Value                                  to be phased into                the determination
quantitative or          None           DPL at time of                  of unitary costs as
Qualitative)                              adoption of                     well as a study
                                         policy option                     focusing on
                                                                         public financing
                                                                         mechanisms for
                                                                        higher education.
Date achieved         6/30/2007            6/30/2012                        6/30/2012
Comments         Achieved: The analytical work financed under this sub-component has
(incl. %         helped MoET departments in the development of policies regarding
achievement)     public funding for higher education in general as well as determining
                  the allocation of funds to individual colleges and universities based on
                  unitary costs. It also served to improve financial reporting of higher
                  education institutions. Findings and recommendations from the two
                  studies were an important input of the decree regulating on tuition fees
                  for the period 2011-2015 (issued on May 2010).
                  Analytic work and presentation of policy options for the establishment
Indicator 3       of accreditation standards, quality assurance mechanisms and
                  admission systems produced.
                                                                           Substantial
                                                                           knowledge
                                                                        building has been
                                         Analytical work
                                                                            generated,
Value                                   to be phased into
                                                                           focusing on
quantitative or           None           DPL at time of
                                                                        quality assurance
Qualitative)                               adoption of
                                                                         mechanisms for
                                          policy option
                                                                        higher education.


Date achieved         6/30/2007            6/30/2012                        6/30/2012
                Achieved: Substantial knowledge building was conducted under the
                HEP II focusing on the development of a quality assurance system for
                Vietnam’s higher education. The activities carried out under operation
                also served to strengthen technical capacity among those responsible
                for internal quality assurance within individual colleges and
Comments        universities, helping them implement quality assurance systems and
(incl. %        gradually build a quality culture. They also served to strengthen the
achievement)    technical capacity at the MoET’s ability to provide substantive inputs
                in the drafting of quality-assurance related regulations, including the
                Comprehensive Framework on Higher Education Quality Assurance
                and Accreditation, which was adopted in Sept. 2010. Analytical work
                on admissions was not carried out, as MoET issued new admission
                regulations.
       Component 2 – Capacity Building for University Teaching and Research
                Number and frequency of participation of representatives from TRIG-
Indicator 4
                recipient universities in training courses
Value
quantitative or          N.A.                                                 22,775
Qualitative)
Date achieved         6/30/2007            6/30/2012                        6/30/2012
                Achieved: A total of 22,775 faculty and staff have attended short
                training courses. The focus of the training varied across universities, as
Comments
                it was determined by the goals individual TRIG sub-projects. It
(incl. %
                generally focused on research and teaching methods, utilization and
achievement)
                maintenance of technical equipment, curricula development,
                certification standards, and management capacity. In addition, TRIG
                   universities also received training on sub-project design and
                   implementation, including procurement and M&E.
Indicator 5        Positive impact of TRIG scheme as evaluated by independent firm
                                                                             A TRIG Impact
                                                                            Evaluation Study
                                                                            was conducted by
                                         TRIG-evaluation
Value                                                                            a panel of
                                         report submitted,
quantitative or            None                                                  university
                                           validated and
Qualitative)                                                                 researchers and
                                            disseminated
                                                                               disseminated
                                                                               among TRIG
                                                                               universities.
Date achieved           6/30/2007            6/30/2012                          6/30/2012
                   Achieved: While this evaluation was originally programmed as an
                   ongoing activity to be conducted by an international consultant firm,
                   the contract was eventually cancelled due to the firm’s poor
                   performance. A panel of university experts was subsequently
Comments
                   commissioned an independent evaluation of the TRIG scheme. The
(incl. %
                   study, which reflected results from more than 500 personal interviews
achievement)
                   and 5,500 surveys distributed among administrators, faculty and
                   students of TRIG universities indicates that the TRIG scheme was
                   highly effective, resulting in a significant impact in relation to the
                   project’s PDO.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                             Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                        IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1    07/26/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                        0.00
  2    10/09/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                        0.00
  3    07/22/2008         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                        6.38
  4    03/20/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                        8.56
  5    10/19/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       18.80
  6    10/18/2010         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                28.86
  7    05/01/2011         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       35.32
  8    10/31/2011         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       40.48

H. Restructuring (if any)
                     Board        ISR Ratings at         Amount            Reason for
 Restructuring Approved           Restructuring        Disbursed at      Restructuring &
    Date(s)           PDO                             Restructuring       Key Changes
                                    DO        IP
                    Change                           (in US$ million)         Made

      N.A.
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Having recognized the key importance of higher education and research for the country’s
economic and social development, the Government of Vietnam (GoV) has made it its
priority to expand both quality and access to higher education. The government’s
commitment toward higher education was already clearly reflected in the 2006-2010
Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010, which aimed to increase enrollment in
universities and colleges by 10 percent annually and to gradually approach the more
advanced education standards of the region and the world. Presently, the GoV's priorities
in higher education are set out in its Higher Education Reform Agenda (HERA) which
reflects a forward-looking strategy for the development of higher education and research.

The World Bank has been a long-standing partner supporting the GoV’s higher education
reform efforts, including those geared toward developing a quality higher education
system that is innovative and responsive to the demands for skills. Approved in 1998, the
First Higher Education Project – HEP I (P004828; US$83.3 million) was the first Bank
operation to focus specifically on higher education. Based on the HEP I successful
experience, the GoV requested the Bank to expand its support to higher education reform
efforts. This operation, the Second Higher Education Project - HEP II, built upon its
predecessor, providing further support for capacity building among participating
universities while complementing a series of development policy operations aimed at
strengthening the higher education system as a whole.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

 Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
                According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
PDO 1 – To increase the quality of teaching and research in universities, in ways that
         improve the employability of graduates and the relevance of research.
The KPIs associated to the PDO were:
 The proportion of participating universities having undergone self-evaluation and
  external evaluation at least once under national pilot accreditation system; and
 Number of articles published by academic staff in the previous year in internationally
  refereed scientific journals in TRIG-recipient universities.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The PDO as well as KPIs remained unchanged during the operation’s lifetime.




                                           1
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
                                Primary Target Groups
The project directly benefited:
 The Ministry of Education and Training (MoET) by strengthening its policy making
  capacity; and
 Administrators, research and teaching staff, and students from the 22 participating
  universities. Overall, participating universities have an annual enrollment of roughly
  100,000 students in 2011.

1.5 Original Components
1 - Capacity Building for Policy Development. (US4.8 million)
This component aimed to develop policy and build capacity in policy development in the
key policy areas:
 The organization and governance of the higher education system;
 The public supply- and demand-side funding of higher education; and
 Quality of students at entry and quality of services provided by higher education
   institutions.
2 - Capacity Building for University Teaching and Research (US$61.4 million )
This component aimed to strengthen teaching and research in selected universities, by:
 Building management capacity in universities; and
 Financing Teaching and Research Innovation Grants (TRIGs).
3 - Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$4.3 million)
This component aimed to support effective project implementation, including project
coordination and monitoring and evaluation.

1.6 Revised Components
N.A.

1.7 Other significant changes
N.A.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry (QAE)
QAE – Satisfactory

This ICR rates the project’s QAE as satisfactory. The project was fully aligned with the
GoV’s higher education reform strategy and constituted an important element of the
Bank’s support strategy for Vietnam’s higher education system. The preparation team
fully capitalized on the learning acquired under the preceding operation (HEP I), and
incorporated several modifications that contributed to the project’s timely execution and
effectiveness. In retrospect, the Project Result Framework could have been further



                                           2
strengthened by including additional KPIs to address the multiple dimensions of the PDO.
The specific design strengths and weaknesses can be summarized as follows:

                          Assessment of Quality at Entry – QAE
Strengths
 Strong learning from preceding operation: Based on the experience under HEP I, the
   implementation of the TRIG subcomponent was improved as follows: i) the selection
   process of participating universities took place during preparation as opposed to after
   effectiveness, which avoided having a slow project start-up; ii) participating
   universities were required to complete highly detailed standardized templates as part
   of their application package for procurement, training, etc., which provided the
   foundations for a sound monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system; and iii)
   substantively, participating universities were induced to focus more on “soft
   investments? including staff development and research activities rather than just in the
   purchase of equipment.
 Balanced targeting criteria: The project’s targeting effectively balanced efficiency
   and equity criteria, focusing on two distinctive groups of universities. The so-called
   Group 1 included 17 of the most established universities in the country, while Group 2
   included five universities located in disadvantageous areas, such as remote
   mountainous regions of the country and the Mekong delta. Moreover, among the most
   established universities (i.e., Group 1), the project focused only on those that had
   demonstrated ability to perform under the HEP I, thus, maximizing the project’s
   likelihood of success and potential impact.
 Effective capacity building approach: The utilization of a demand-driven approach to
   determine the specific interventions to be supported under the TRIG subcomponent
   served to ensure the alignment between the project’s support and the needs of
   participating universities. In addition, requirements for TRIG proposals, which
   required their full consistency with the universities’ current strategic plan, as well as
   the selection process by independent panels ensured the quality of the proposals and
   provided applicants with access to expert technical support and advice, which was
   particularly important for Group 2 universities.
 Effective institutional arrangements: The project’s institutional arrangements
   supported stakeholder autonomy and accountability. Within Component 1,
   responsibility for policy development activities was assigned to the corresponding
   MoET's core business units, thus contributing to their institutional strengthening and
   the quality of the outputs. Within Component 2, universities were responsible not just
   for determining the TRIG-supported activities, but for the corresponding procurement
   processes as well. This constituted an innovation with respect to the preceding
   operation, under which the MoET had required that all procurement be done at the
   central level. The HEP II decentralized approach promoted the universities’ autonomy
   and enhanced transparency and accountability. The decision also denoted the MoET’s
   ability to capitalize on learning from the HEP I experience.
 Robust M&E system: The Bank and Government team correctly identified the need to
   design and develop a sound M&E system as a key project input and developed the
   tools needed to implement it (e.g., TRIG templates). Although it proved difficult to
   implement, the project adopted an innovative approach toward M&E, calling for a


                                             3
  consultant firm to conduct an independent evaluation of the TRIG grants
  concomitantly with implementation.
 Multi-pronged Bank support strategy: The operation benefited from the Bank’s
  multipronged support strategy for Vietnam’s higher education, which included two
  specific investment loans – SILs (i.e., the HEP I and II), a series of Development
  Policy Lending operations - DPLs (i.e., Vietnam’s Higher Education Reform Support
  Program - HERSP) to support the government’s reform efforts over five-year time
  span, and substantial sector work.2 The two SIL operations provided much needed
  capacity building within the MoET and among participating universities, effectively
  complementing the policy-oriented DPL operations. The SILs contribution in terms of
  capacity building is particularly important in countries such as Vietnam, where
  capacity constraints can seriously hindered the effective implementation of higher
  level policy reforms.
Weaknesses
 Weak Project Result Framework (PRF): The PRF could have been further
  strengthened by: i) establishing a more direct relationship between the project’s
  activities and the PDO; and ii) including additional KPIs to capture more fully the
  multiple dimensions embedded in the PDO. Specifically, according to the PDO, the
  project aimed to increase the quality of both teaching and research in universities, in
  ways that improve the employability of graduates and the relevance of research. The
  importance given to employability and relevance of research by including under the
  PDO seems to have been overemphasized as the unemployment rate of higher
  education graduates at the time of the project design was less than 3%. Increasing the
  quality of teaching and research through encouraging university-industry links, which
  are critical to ensure the alignment of labor skills supply and demand as well as to
  ensure the relevance of research.3 The KPIs, therefore, were not fully aligned with the
  PDO. While one of the two key outcome indicators focused on research quality (i.e.,
  number of articles published in academic journals), the second one focused on the
  proportion of participating universities undergoing self-evaluations processes under
  the pilot national accreditation program. While this had been a central area of focus of
  the HEP I, it was not directly supported under the HEP II and, more importantly, did
  not capture the project’s impact on quality of teaching.

2.2 Implementation

The project benefited not only from a solid design but also from a particularly stable
implementation environment, strong ownership on the part of the MoET, and very strong
teams on both the Borrower’s and the Bank’s sides. These factors resulted in the HEP II


2
  World Bank (2012), Putting Higher Education to Work: Skills and Research for Growth in East Asia,
East Asia and Pacific Regional Report, Washington, D.C.; World Bank (2008), Vietnam: Higher Education
and Skills for Growth, Human Development Department, East Asia and Pacific Region, Washington, D.C.
3
  University-industry links were encouraged indirectly, by including representatives from industry and/or
business in the independent TRIG evaluation panels and in the project’s Advisory Committee. These links
could have been more directly encouraged, for example, by requiring universities to partner with industry
and/or business as part of the TRIG eligibility criteria.


                                                   4
being the first project in Vietnam’s education portfolio to fully disburse within the
original timeframe. The most notable implementation difficulty was in the development
of the Higher Education Management and Policy Information System (HEMPIS), which
was eventually cancelled. The factors affecting implementation include:

                       Factors Affecting Project Implementation
Factors outside the control of the Government and the implementing agency
 There were no negative external factors affecting implementation. The GoV
  managed the 2008 financial crisis effectively and the flow of counterpart funds took
  place as anticipated, even during the height of the crisis.
 Solid Bank team with strong field presence: The project benefited from a particularly
  strong team on the part of the Bank, with long-term engagement in Vietnam’s
  education sector, deep first-hand sector knowledge, and a strong field presence.
  During supervision, the Bank team also exhibited a highly proactive project
  management, anticipating implementation bottlenecks and addressing them
  effectively.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
 Stable support at the national level: The project received consistent support on the
  part of the government. The MoET has a clear strategic vision with respect to both the
  importance and the role of higher education in the country’s economic and social
  development and the needed reforms. These, in turn, are reflected in the reform
  strategy (HERA). The project, being an integral part of such strategy, received full
  support throughout implementation.
 Failed implementation of HEMPIS: The development of the (HEMPIS proved to be
  more difficult than anticipated and was eventually cancelled. Among the factors that
  contributed to its failed implementation was the lack of a clear definition regarding its
  overall objective. Specifically, there was no agreement on whether it was aimed at
  compiling and reporting statistical data or, alternatively, it was going to serve as a
  more ambitious management tool. Likewise, there was no agreement on whether the
  focus was on enhancing transparency on the use of resources at the university level or,
  alternatively, the emphasis was to be placed on results. The lack of a clear definition
  was partly related to the large number and diverse nature of the MoET departments
  involved in the process—e.g., higher education, planning and finance, science and
  technology, facilities, international training and testing and accreditation—without any
  one entity assuming a strong leadership role. Moreover, it is important to point out that
  the roughly four hundred higher education institutions that were expected to feed data
  to HEMPIS, most of which already have their own information management systems
  in place, were not involved in the process.
             Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
 Solid counterparts. The PMU was well staffed with a team of top-notch professional
  that had solid administrative experience and commanded respect among the
  participating universities and the MoET business units. Likewise, 17 of the 22
  participating universities not only had participated in the preceding operation but were
  also the best performers.
 Active project management: The project was actively managed by both the PMU and


                                            5
   Bank, which anticipated and effectively corrected implementation weaknesses and
   bottlenecks (see Section 5 – Bank and Borrower Performance for a more detailed
   discussion.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
                              Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design
The development of a sound M&E was an important priority at the design stage and
included several innovative features, including:
 Indicators: The MoET was to monitor four types of indicators, including:
   i) Government-strategy indicators: These indicators, which are directly linked to the
        objectives outlined in the GoV’s strategy HERA, were to be monitored for TRIG
        universities on an annual basis to assess the overall progress of GoV’s higher
        education reform strategy. They reflected the main TRIG activities, including
        training of faculty members at the Master’s and Ph.D. levels and employability of
        graduates. It would have been a valuable addition to the project’s M&E framework
        to also monitor HERA indicators for non-TRIG universities as well to be able to
        compare HERA performance for TRIG and non-TRIG universities.
   ii) Project-level outcome indicators: These indicators were intended to measure the
        project’s impact on quality of teaching and research. However, as discussed earlier,
        the outcome indicator aimed at measuring teaching quality did so only tangentially,
        as it focused on the proportion of TRIG universities undergoing self-evaluations.
   iii) Project-level output indicators: These output indicators corresponded to key
        activities planned under the various components.
   iv) University-level indicators: As part of their TRIG proposals, participating
        universities were required to include a battery of indicators for each set of
        activities, including baselines and specific targets, according to detailed templates.
 Internal audit: In addition to the usual external independent auditors, the MoET
   appointed an Internal Auditor to identify weaknesses early on in the process and build
   capacity as needed. The internal auditor function was also to be replicated at the
   university level, for which substantial training was provided.
 Independent TRIG evaluation: It was anticipated to contract a consultant firm to
   conduct a TRIG evaluation study to determine the effectiveness of the various
   interventions supported under the TRIG component. Data was to be collected and
   analyzed throughout project implementation to obtain adequate information for data
   analysis.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Implementation
The project’s M&E system was partially implemented as compared to the original design.
Specifically:
 Indicators:
   i) Government-strategy indicators: HERA indicators were monitored as anticipated
         for the TRIG universities.
   ii) Project-level outcome indicators: The outcome indicator on self-evaluations was
         monitored regularly. Alternatively, the outcome indicator focusing on the number
         of papers published in academic journals was technically too complex for the


                                              6
         PMU to monitor routinely.4 Instead, the PMU relied on the number of publications
         reported by universities as being funded by TRIGs. However, it soon became
         apparent that there were no clear criteria determining the reporting of publications
         in terms the type of publication or their relationship to TRIG funding. Efforts
         were made to fine tune the criteria.
    iii) Project-level output indicators: These output indicators were closely monitored by
         the PMU and highly instrumental in facilitating implementation monitoring and
         the Bank’s supervision.
    iv) University-level indicators: During implementation, universities collected and
         reported sub-project level indicators periodically. These indicators constituted an
         indispensable tool for the PMU to monitor project implementation at the university
         level and ultimately ensure the full utilization of funds.
 Internal audit: The internal audit function did not function as expected. An internal
     audit coordinator has been appointed at the national level and technical assistance,
     including internal audit methodology and training, was provided to participating
     universities by a consulting firm. This was designed to support participating
     universities to follow a report-based disbursement mechanism. However, the actual
     disbursement method remained traditional (transaction-based) hence universities
     focused their efforts in managing their accounts/receipts/invoices rather than building
     financial management system with functioning internal audit. Therefore internal
     auditing was not emphasized or closely monitored by the PMU, which led to the
     downgrading of the project’s Financial Management rating in 2011.
 Independent TRIG evaluation: A consultant firm as planned was hired during
     project implementation, but it failed to collect and analyze the data during
     implementation as originally anticipated. Its contract was eventually cancelled as a
     result of substantial delays in the submission of deliverables. As a substitute, a panel
     of researchers was contracted toward the end of the project to conduct an independent
     evaluation of the impact of TRIG grants. As opposed to the originally envisioned
     study, which was to systematically assess the impact of the TRIG interventions by
     comparing “before,? “during? and “after,? this evaluation is based mainly on the level
     of satisfaction reported by administrators, teaching and research staff, and students
     from participating universities “after? the project. Thus, its usefulness in assessing the
     impact of TRIG interventions is more limited.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Utilization
The M&E, in particular the monitoring of project level output indicators was effectively
utilized to monitor implementation progress, including the early detection of
implementation weaknesses, bottlenecks and delays. It was a key instrument in ensuring
the timely and successful implementation of the project. The PMU used the framework to
benchmark TRIG universities’ performance with regards to: (i) number of contracts
signed; (ii) disbursement; (iii) number of research project launched; (iv) number of labs
installed and put into use; (v) number of curricula revised/updated etc. The PMU had
very strong ownership of its M&E role, which is consistent with the responsibilities at the



4
  The operationalization of this indicator was rather technical and required access to specific electronic
databases.


                                                    7
ministry level. While all participating universities fulfilled their reporting responsibilities,
they did so with different levels of promptness and thoroughness. For a selected group of
universities, the utilization of the project’s M&E system went beyond being a project
requirement and became an important self-management tool.
The project-level outcome indicators and the independent TRIG evaluation, however,
were not fully effective in capturing the project’s impact for the reasons discussed above.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
                           Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environmental Safeguards
The project was classified as being Category ‘C’ according to the Bank's Safeguards
Policies, indicating that it had minimal or no adverse social or environmental impacts.
Financial Management – FM
Overall, the PMU had adequate financial management systems, software, and trained
staff. In addition to standard FM procedures, disbursement applications by universities
had to obtain the clearance from the local State Treasury office, which, although it added
an extra layer of bureaucracy, also helped ensure the legitimacy of disbursements at the
university level. However, the project’s Financial Management rating was downgraded
on August 2011 because audited financial statements, auditors’ report and Interim
Financial Reports were not always submitted on time and, as discussed earlier, the
internal audit function was not carried out as envisioned.
Procurement
Despite some delays and failed bidding processes, the PMU and participating universities
performed their procurement functions satisfactorily. This is evidenced by the fact that all
IDA funds were disbursed by the project’s original closing date. This is not a minor
achievement, considering the project’s complexity of the project in terms of procurement,
which it involved 750 contracts, of which more than 100 were International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) processes.
Several factors contributed to the project’s satisfactory procurement performance,
including:
 Detailed procurement plans were required as part of the TRIG proposal prepared by
   universities before the beginning of the project ;
 Universities being responsible for their own procurement procedures;
 Intense training on procurement provided to universities, with over 250 of people
   being trained;
 For the procurement of sophisticated technical equipment, universities were required
   to identify at least three potential suppliers to avoid having overly narrow technical
   specifications.
Low procurement thresholds, however, resulted in roughly 60 to 70 percent of all
contracts requiring prior review, resulting in a high volume of work for all parties,
particularly the Bank and PMU, as well as implementation delays for the universities.
The thresholds have since been raised.
Compliance with Covenants
All covenants stipulated under the Loan Agreement were met.


                                               8
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
                       Next Phase: A potential follow-up operation
While the universities have stated a strong demand for a follow-up operation (see Annex
6 – Stakeholders Workshop), the MoET is still to define the areas in which it will seek
the Bank’s support in the medium term.
From a substantive perspective, there is a natural progression in terms of the focus of a
third operation. Specifically, a third operation could combine the demand-based based
approach of the HEP I and II operations with key policy priorities to be defined by the
MoET. Some of the potential areas to particularly emphasize under a potential HEP III
operation include:
 University-industry links: A follow-up operation could explicitly focus on
   strengthening linkages between universities and the private sector (i.e., industry and
   business) assigning higher priority to teaching and research initiatives that are
   conceived in partnership with private sector stakeholders.
 Creation of regional higher education networks: Such networks would facilitate the
   “cascading? of the institutional capacity built under the two preceding operations.
   Specifically, HEP I & II universities could play an active role supporting the
   development of less advanced colleges and universities in their region, providing
   technical assistance to strengthen teaching quality, forging collaboration in teaching
   and research, and developing mechanisms for resource sharing and vertical learning
   pathways.
 Macro-economic impact: A third operation could aim to maximize economic
   spillovers by giving higher priorities to proposals from universities and/or research
   institutes that focus on teaching and research activities with strong macro-linkages or
   that are directly aligned with national priority programs (e.g., energy, environment,
   agriculture).
 Local economic development: The inclusion of Group 2 universities yielded
   significant economic impact in the local communities as a result of research activities
   related to extension services. This type of impact could be actively encouraged under a
   potential follow-on operation.
 Other higher education priorities: A third operation could be designed to support
   specific MoET priorities, such as, for example, strengthening the incipient quality
   assurance framework by supporting the adoption of international standards by
   participating universities or the establishment of independent accreditation entities. .

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance: High

The HEP II objectives were highly consistent with those of the GoV as well as those of
the Bank. Specifically, the operation is fully aligned with the Bank’s 2007-2011 (CPS),5
which, in turn provided support to the GoV’s “Five-Year Socio-Economic Development


5
    Report No. 38236-VN, dated January 3, 2007.


                                                  9
Plan 2006-2010.? Under CPS Pillar I, which aimed to assist the GoV in its transition to a
market economy, the Bank’s program focused on the development a higher education
system that produces graduates better suited to the new economy’s needs, measured by
changes in the proportion of students finding employment within six months of
graduation by field of study. The project contributed to this objective by improving the
quality of higher education in ways that enable central government and universities to
produce graduates with the knowledge and skills that meet labor market demands.
Moreover, the HEP II operation provided direct support to the GoV Higher Education
Reform Agenda (HERA) and the achievement of some of its targets, such as increasing
the proportion of faculty members with doctoral and Master’s degrees.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The achievement of the project’s PDOs is deemed Satisfactory, as the HEP II operation
has made a positive contribution toward enhancing the quality of teaching and research
both at the policy level and among participating universities.
At the policy level, the HEP II operation has contributed to the continuous development
of Vietnam’s higher education system by financing key pieces of analytical work that
have helped enhance the ongoing policy dialogue, providing evidence-based inputs and
expanding the range of potential policy options. These studies have been used to define
the reforms to be implemented over the mid-term, including those supported under the
Higher Education DPL series. As reflected in the Policy Matrixes of these operations, the
HEP II policy-related outputs are important building blocks within the higher education
reform strategy being supported by the Bank. In addition, many of the studies financed
under this operation have been key inputs in newly adopted higher education legislation
and regulations. Other studies have had a direct impact on Vietnam’s higher education
system, such as the impact study on the implementation of the credit-based system, which
significantly accelerated the adoption of the credit-based system among other universities
(See Section 3.5.b – Institutional Change, for a detailed discussion of the HEP II’s impact
at the policy level).
The HEP II operation has also succeeded in enhancing the quality of teaching and
research among participating universities. It has done so by providing Teaching and
Research Innovation Grants to support sub-projects identified by each university to
improve the quality of teaching and research within the framework of the universities’
strategic plan. While TRIG sub-projects varied greatly among universities in terms of
focus and individual activities, they all placed a strong emphasis on the development of
human resources, including training of faculty members at the Master’s and Ph.D. levels
as well as the development specific skills needed in the context of the specific proposal
(e.g., teaching and research methods, curricular development, equipment utilization and
maintenance, etc.). TRIG also included funding for individual research projects (these
were financed with counterpart funds on the part the universities) as well as the purchase
of equipment, including laboratory equipment, teaching and communication technology,
and library resources. As consistently reported in the self-evaluation studies prepared by
each university, as well as by the administrators, faculty and students interviewed under
an independent TRIG evaluation study, TRIG sub-projects have resulted in better



                                            10
prepared administrators, teachers and researchers with adequate tools at their disposal,
which, in turn, have positively impacted the quality of teaching and research.
The specific achievements for each of the dimensions included in the PDOs can
summarized as follows:
PDO 1 – To increase the quality of teaching and research in universities, in ways
        that improve the employability of graduates and the relevance of research.
To increase quality of teaching - Achieved
KPI 1 - Proportion of TRIG-recipient universities having undergone self-evaluation and
external evaluation at least one under the national pilot accreditation system – Achieved
  Twenty out of 22 TRIG-recipient universities have undergone a self-evaluation
    process consistent with the guidelines under the national pilot accreditation system.
    Out of these self-evaluations, twenty have been subject to an external evaluation and
    have been deemed to achieve accreditation standards. Actual accreditation has not
    been granted, since new legislation calls for independent accreditation agencies,
    which are not yet operational in Vietnam.
  The achievement of this indicator indicates that these institutions meet the interim
    standards for self accreditation defined by the MoET in 2005. These standards focus
    on quality of overall management, faculty, curriculum, student services and libraries,
    all of which are important determinants of teaching quality.

TRIG Evaluation Study – Results from the TRIG Evaluation study conducted by a
panel of independent researchers present a highly positive evaluation of the impact of the
TRIG interventions on key factors affecting the quality of teaching and, consequently, on
teaching effectiveness itself. Specifically:
  Administrators and faculty rate the impact of TRIG interventions on management
    effectiveness as 3.7 and 3.4, respectively, in a scale of 1 to 5.
  Administrators and staff rate the impact of TRIG interventions on program and course
    development and restructuring as 3.7 and 3.5, respectively, in a scale of 1 to 5. Much
    of the curricular development was done as part of the transition to the newly adopted
    credit-base system. In some cases, program and course restructuring was done with
    input from employers.
  More than half of the administrators being interviewed as part of the study (i.e., 54
    percent) rate the improvements on teaching effectiveness resulting from TRIG
    interventions to be 4 or higher in a scale of 1 to 5.6 Some of the specific
    improvements being reported include: enhanced communication, including more
    teacher-student interaction as well as communication being more open and friendly;
    and added emphasis on self-learning and creative problem solving; development of
    teamwork skills and other important soft skills.
  Administrators and staff rate the impact of TRIG interventions on the development of
    lab-related teaching materials as 3.7 and 3.5, respectively, in a scale of 1 to 5. In most


6
    No results were reported for faculty responses.


                                                      11
  cases, these activities complemented the expansion and/or upgrading of labs as well
  as the establishment of new ones.
 Faculty report high levels of utilization of TRIG-financed equipment and materials
  (i.e., 3.4 in a scale of 1 to 5) for their teaching activities as well as satisfaction with
  the current level of supply relative to their demand (i.e., 3.2 in a scale of 1 to 5). Both
  satisfaction and usage are particularly high for library materials.

HERA indicators – HERA indicators show that inputs affecting quality of teaching have
improved substantially between 2007 and 2012 among TRIG universities. Likewise,
HERA indicators focusing on student performance also exhibit a sustained improvement,
suggesting an underlying improvement in quality of teaching during the same period.
Specifically:
  Input HERA targets and indicators affecting the quality of teaching exhibited a
   sustained improvement for both Groups 1 and 2 among TRIG universities between
   2007 and 2012; including: i) the quality of the teaching staff as denoted by their level
   of education (i.e., percentage of faculty holding Master’s and doctoral degrees); ii)
   the student/teacher ratio; and iii) the percentage of teaching staff receiving training in
   teaching methods. The only exception is for the percentage of teaching staff with
   doctoral degrees in more disadvantageous universities (i.e., Group 2), which
   decreased slightly during the same period as the enrolment expanded in the more
   disadvantaged areas where group 2 TRIG universities locate.
  Outcome HERA indicators related to quality of teaching also show improvement for
   both Groups 1 and 2 among TRIG universities between 2007 and 2012; including: i)
   average scores in standarized tests for graduating seniors; ii) the average number of
   years of university enrollement among graduating seniors; and iii) the proportion of
   graduating seniors continuing their studies at foreign institutions. While there are
   multiple factors that affect student performance, including student quality; the quality
   of teaching is undoubtedly one of the main factors.
  While the lack of data on non-TRIG universities does not allow to isolate the effect of
   the project, it is reasonable to infere that the project has had a positive effect on both
   the inputs affecting quality of teaching and quality of teaching itself, as refelcted in
   enhanced student performance between 2007 and 2012.




                                             12
                       Table 1. HERA Indicators Related to Quality of Teaching
                                 among TRIG universities, 2007-2012
                                                                     Group 1                 Group 2
    HERA Indicators
                                                                 TRIG-Universities      TRIG-Universities
                                                             2007      2010    2012   2007    2010     2012
    Inputs affecting quality of teaching
    Proportion of university teaching staff with Master’s
    level degrees to increase to 40 percent by 2010,         44.4      45.5    50.0   34.5    45.2     38.8
    and to 60 percent by 2020
    Proportion of university teaching staff with doctoral
    level degrees increased to 25 percent by 2010 and        22.7      25.8    24.6   3.4      4.4     3.2
    to 35 percent by 2020.
    Ratio of university students to teaching staff
                                                             22.6      20.7    18.2   19.6    21.4     16.6
    reduced to 20:1 by 2020.
    Proportion of teachers who received training in
                                                             44.4      65.4    75.9   68.0    78.6     77.4
    teaching methods durign the previous year.
    Outcomes related to teaching quality
    Average score in standarized student tests for
                                                             4.4        6.7     6.3   5.0      7.0     5.8
    graduating university students for the previous year.
    Average number of years of enrollment for
    graduating university students for the previous          4.6        4.5     3.6   3.6      3.4     3.2
    year.
    Proportion of students from the last graduating
    class that pursue further studies in foreign             1.7        2.2     2.4   0.1      0.2     0.4
    institutions upon six months of graduation.

    Source: PMU (October, 2012).
To increase quality of research - Achieved
KPI 2 - Number of articles published by academic staff in the previous academic year in
       international refereed academic journals in TRIG-recipient universities. –
       Achieved
 The number of publications by TRIG universities in peer-reviewed academic journals
   more than doubled between 2006 and 2011, particularly in the sciences. Specifically,
   a total of 508 articles by faculty in participating universities were published in peer-
   reviewed journals in 2011, compared to only 207 in 2006. The bulk of the
   publications continued to be in the sciences, which amounted to 472 publications in
   2011 compared to 207 in 2006. While they continued to represent a small fraction of
   the total, the number of publications in the social sciences, as well as in the arts and
   humanities also increased between the two periods, from 20 and none in 2006 to 30
   and six in 2011, respectively.7
 While the university-wide increase in the number of peer-reviewed academic


7
   A bibliographical search was conducted for both 2006 and 2011 using the following databases: i) the
Science Citation Index Expanded; ii) the Social Sciences Citation Index; and iii) the Arts Humanities
Citation Index to identify the number of publications associated with the 22 TRIG universities in peer-
reviewed academic journals. The number of articles identified for 2006 was slightly lower than the one
shown on the PAD (i.e., 207 versus 230), most probably due to differences in translation of the name of the
universities. The data reported above was, thus, modified to reflect the same operational definition for both
time periods—i.e., 2006 and 2011.


                                                            13
     publications cannot be fully attributed to TRIG grants, they have certinly had a
     substantial impact. During the life of the project, TRIG funding has resulted, directly
     o indirectly, in a total of 2,037 and 876 national and international publications,
     respectively, including academic journals, conference proceedings, and theses and
     dissertations. 8

TRIG Evaluation Study – Results from the independent TRIG Evaluation study report
highly positive impacts on research skills and availability of lab equipment, which, in
turn, can be expected to enhance the quality of research itself. Specifically:
  Teaching and research faculty members report enhanced ability to perform the
    various tasks involved in conducting research as a result of training or research
    funding received under TRIG initiatives. Specifically, in a scale of 1 to 5, they rank
    the impact of TRIG initiatives as 3.48 in terms of enhancing their substantive
    knowledge on the research topic; 3.53 in terms of their ability to identify and select of
    a research topic; 3.44 in terms of their ability to write a research proposal; 3.61 in
    terms of their ability to collect data; 3.53 in terms of their ability to analyze and
    interpret data; and 3.52 in terms of their ability to write a research paper.
  Faculty report high levels of satisfaction with the current level of supply of lab
    equipment relative to their demand (i.e., 3.8 in a scale of 1 to 5).

HERA indicators – The one HERA indicator focusing on research shows an
improvement in the quantity of publications. Specifically:
 The number of articles published in international academic journals per faculty
   member has increased substantially between 2007 and 2012 for both Groups 1 and 2.

                            Table 2. HERA Indicators Related to Research
                                among TRIG universities, 2007-2012
                                                                  Group 1                 Group 2
    HERA Indicators
                                                              TRIG-Universities     TRIG-Universities
                                                          2007      2010    2012   2007    2010     2012
    Outcomes related to research
    Number of articles per faculty member published in
    international journals during the previous year (x    6.2       6.6     10.9   0.4      4.2     1.5
    100)

    Source: PMU (October, 2012).


Indirect impacts – Employability and relevance of research
Employability – Undetermined
 As discussed above, the project’s impact on employability is expected to be


8
  These include publications resulting from TRIG-funded projects, Ph.D. dissertations and Master’s theses
from TRIG-funded students, publications resulting from research that utilized TRIG-funded equipment, and
articles that were presented at professional meetings using TRIG funding.


                                                         14
    indirect—i.e., higher employability as a result of better teaching and research. Given
    that the project did not include any specific activites to better align the supply and
    demand of skills, no direct impact can be expected. Moreoever, given information
    imperfections, labor markets do not react immediately, for which the impact of the
    project on employability is expected to be negligible at this time but to increase over
    time.
   Data from HERA shows that the proportion of graduates being employed within six
    months of graduation increased for TRIG universities in Group 1, from an average of
    68.4 percent in 2007 to 74.2 percent in 2012. Curiously, HERA data show that
    employability decreased among graduates from TRIG universities in Group 2—i.e.,
    those in disadvantageous or remote locations—from an average 69 percent in 2007 to
    51.5 percent in 2012.
   Data from VHLSSs and Labour force surveys in 2010 showed the the overall high
    employement rate of higher education graduates (more than 95%) and the continued
    rise in returns to higher education relative to other levels of educational attainment.

       Figure 1. Estimated return to education on earnings, relative to no education

         80%
                                                                                                    77%
         70%                                                                               65%
         60%
                                                                      49%         50%
                                              47%
         50%
                                                                                                          54%
         40%                                                                               46%
                                                            29%
         30%                       23%
                          18%                                              32%
         20%                                                                      26%
                10%                           25%
         10%
                                    2%
          0%     7%         7%                              7%
                Under    Primary Secondary Elementary       High    Secondary    Trade    College    University
               primary                     vocational      school   vocational   school

                                                    2007            2010


Relevance of research – Likely to have been achieved
 The same considerations apply to relevance of research. Given that the project did not
   include any specific activities or incentives to better align the supply and demand of
   research, the project’s impact on enhancing relevance of reseach is expected to be
   indirect—i.e., more relevant research as a result of having better trained researchers
   with international expossure, as well as more sophisticated equipment that makes
   possible to expand the range of research activities.
 There is evidence that indicates that TRIG universities might be conducting more
   relevant research, as shown by the new research and service contracts with
   government agencies and industries reported by TRIG universities in their self-
   evaluation reports.



                                                     15
           Figure 2. Percentage of revenue from science and technology activities
                                    in TRIG universities

                           14.0
                                                                               11.8
                           12.0
                                                              9.9
              Percentage   10.0

                            8.0                                                8.8
                                        5.2
                            6.0
                                                              6.4
                            4.0

                            2.0

                            0.0   1.7

                                    1                         2                3

                                              Group  1              Group  2
   HERA data shows that revenue from science and technology activities has increased
    for TRIG universities in both groups, suggesting that these activites respond to the
    need of government agencies and private companies willing to fund it. Specifically, it
    increased from 5.2 percent to 11.8 percent between 2007 and 2012 for Group 1—
    equivalent to a 230 percent increase. Likewise, it increased from 1.7 percent to 8.8
    percent between 2007 and 2012 for Group 2—equivalent to a 520 percent increase.
    While both groups of universities are still from meeting HERA targets (i.e., 15 and 25
    percent by 2010 and 2020, respectively), the trend is clearly positive.
   Although it is not possible to attribute the revenue increase to the project given the
    lack of data on non-TRIG universities, the data are consistent with the fact that
    participating universities have reported additional research contracts and user fees
    among the project outcomes at the university level.

3.3 Efficiency

                                                   Efficiency
Economic Efficiency
The economic analysis performed at appraisal continues to be relevant in view of the
project’s actual achievements, which are in line with those anticipated. Specifically the
economic analysis took into consideration three types of benefits: i) productivity gains of
graduates from participating universities; ii) efficiency gains at the university level and ii)
rates of return from research and development investments under the project. Under a set
of conservative assumptions, the economic analysis yielded an Internal Economic Rate of
Return (IERR) of 34 percent, indicating the project’s strong economic efficiency (see
Annex 3).
Financial Rate of Return
The project’s financial rate of return was not estimated at appraisal. However, there are
three observations that indicate the universities will have the ability to finance operating
expenditures of TRIG investments beyond the life of the project. Specifically:
   Universities complied with 10 percent co-financing requirements as anticipated.


                                                         16
   In several cases, universities have secured research and service contracts with
    government organizations and private firms as a result of new equipment financed
    under TRIGs that will provide them with recurrent additional revenues.
   HERA indicators indicate a gradual but continuous increase in universities own-
    source revenues, independently of the project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The HEP II operation is rated satisfactory, as it has attained its objective of enhancing the
quality of teaching and research among participating universities. The operation was
highly relevant at appraisal and continues to be so at closing, as it reflected the GoV’s
medium term reform strategy for higher education. The operation was also an important
component of the Bank’s support strategy for Vietnam, which focuses on higher
education as a way to contribute to the country’s economic competitiveness under Pillar 1
of CPS 2007-2011 and CSP 2012-2016.9 In this context, the HEP II operation effectively
complemented the ongoing series of development policy operations by supporting solid
and relevant analytical work as well as much needed capacity building at the MoET and
university levels.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
                  Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
a) Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development
 The inclusion of universities located in less advanced regions is important not only
   from an equity perspective but also in terms of the impact of their research activities
   on local economic development. (see discussion below).
 Results from the surveys and interviews conducted under the TRIG Independent
   Evaluation Study indicate that there was no discrimination among women or
   minorities for teaching and research opportunities supported under the project.
(b) Institutional change and strengthening
As described above, the project has supported important analytical work to complement
ongoing higher education reforms. Given the sequencing of this operation and the DPL
series, the policy outputs of the HEP II have served as key inputs into the HERSP series,
providing an evidence-driven diagnostic of the current situation as well as
recommendations and policy options that served to better design the DPL policy actions.
In addition, given the ample dissemination of the various pieces of analytical work
among the various line ministries, there is now a more systematic and unified view on the
importance of higher education policy development. This is important, since higher
education institutions are under the orbit of different line ministries, which often results
in a fragmented view of the critical issues regarding higher education. The specific
impacts in terms of institutional strengthening include:


9
  Report No. 38236-VN, dated 3 January 2007 and Report No. 65200-VN, dated 7 November 2011,
respectively.


                                               17
Governance of the higher education system
The operation provided financial support for analytical work focusing on organization
and governance aspects of Vietnam’s higher education system, including the
development of a Higher Education Master Plan. The process of developing the Higher
Education Master Plan, the actual end-product and its dissemination have served to bring
increasing awareness over the main weaknesses of existing organizational and
governance arrangements of Vietnam’s Higher Education System, including the fractured
nature of the system, and the lack of academic, managerial, and financial autonomy of
higher education institutions. The Master Plan’s diagnosis and recommendations were
important inputs in the Higher Education Act (approved in June 2012), which represents
an important step toward strengthening autonomy and improving efficiency, quality,
responsiveness and accountability of higher education and research institutions. The
Higher Education Act reflects many of the recommendations of the Master Plan,
including the adoption of a multi-tiered system, the definition of functions to be carried
out by key bodies within colleges and universities differentiated by tier, and the
definition of the management structure at the university level. The Master Plan has also
served as an input in the MoET’s proposal for the drastic and comprehensive reform of
Vietnam’s Higher Education, which has been submitted to the Communist Party of
Vietnam to be considered for adoption. Finally, the recommendations of the Master Plan
are being reflected in several regulations issued by the Prime Minister or MoET
regarding the overall organization and governance structure of Vietnam’s higher
education system. In turn, the approval of Higher Education Act and the various
regulations have served to meet key policy conditions under the World Bank’s HERSP.
Financing of the higher education system
The HEP II operation provided financial support for studies focusing on: i) higher
education unitary costs; and ii) public funding mechanisms. This analytical work has
helped MoET departments in the development of policies regarding public funding for
higher education in general as well as determining the allocation of funds to individual
higher education institutions based on unitary costs. It also helps the MoET in the
drafting of recommendations to improve the financial reporting of higher education
institutions. Findings and recommendations from the two studies were an important input
of the decree regulating on tuition fees for the period 2011-2015 (issued on May 2010).
Wider expansion of credit-based system
The MoET has been encouraging higher education institutions to shift from the current
“learning unit? system—a hybrid between the classical education and credit systems—to
a pure credit-based system for some time now. Although more flexible than the classical
education system, the learning unit system is still quite rigid. Students who enter a
program in the same class stay together through the rest of their education; most courses
are still compulsory, leaving little room for elective coursework. Additionally, no
standard system for calculating learning units across institutions exists yet; thus, the
transfer rate is still quite low. While the MoET has been promoting the adoption of a
credit-based system, the transition had been very slow.
The HEP II was instrumental in accelerating the adoption of credit-based system across
the entire system. Specifically, it supported a study on the impact of the adoption of the


                                           18
credit-based system and disseminated its findings widely among higher education
institutions in 2010. The study’s positive findings and their dissemination contributed to
the rapid adoption of the credit-based system among the higher education system, from
only 60 institutions with 486,386 students in 2009 to 109 institutions with 875,188
students in 2011. The study was also an important input in the revision and expansion of
regulation on credit-based tertiary training.




                                            19
Quality assurance for higher education
Vietnam’s accreditation system is still being developed. In 2002, MoET took an
important step in addressing quality in higher education by establishing the Office of
Accreditation within MoET’s Department of Higher Education. Subsequently, in 2003,
the office was consolidated with the Office of Assessment to form the Department of
Assessment and Accreditation (GDAA), which was responsible for developing
provisional regulations on accreditation for higher education institutions. In 2005, the
MoET issued interim quality standards for higher education institutions and began
implementing an institutional accreditation process based on self-evaluation. The HEP II
has contributed to the further development of the accreditation system as follows:
 It promoted the further insertion of the self-accreditation model by including the self-
    and external evaluation of participating universities as one of the project’s two KPIs.
 The activities carried out under operation also served to strengthen technical capacity
    among those responsible for internal quality assurance within individual colleges and
    universities, helping them implement quality assurance systems.
 It provided support to two TRIG universities on their efforts to obtain certification
    under international standards. One of these universities (i.e., Ho Chi Min City Science
    and Technology) has made substantial progress towards meeting the ABET
    certification standards for its computer science and computer engineering programs.10
    It has already undergone a mock review in 2010 and is scheduled to undergo the
    actual certification review in mid-2013.
 The HEP II activities also served to strengthen the technical capacity at the MoET’s
    level, in particular GDAA’s ability to provide substantive inputs in the drafting of
    quality-assurance related regulation, including the Comprehensive Framework on
    Higher Education Quality Assurance and Accreditation, which was adopted in Sept.
    2010.
“Hands-on? capacity building
By assigning responsibility for the coordinating the preparation of policy-related outputs
to the corresponding MoET’s departmental units, the operation has contributed to
strengthening their capacity and boost their ownership of the reforms. This, in turn, will
facilitate the implementation of the higher education policy agenda after the project’s
completion.
The TRIG scheme also helped increase autonomy among participating universities. By
providing them with discretionary resources and making them responsible for their
administration, the HEP II had a significant impact on the institutional capacity of
participating universities, strengthening not only research and teaching quality but also
their planning, management, procurement, financial administration, and M&E functions,
ultimately contributing to their overall autonomy.
 c) Other unintended outcomes and impacts
 Expanded collaboration, both within and across universities in Vietnam and with
    universities overseas, including :


10
  ABET is a nonprofit, non-governmental organization that accredits college and university programs in
the disciplines of applied science, computing, engineering, and engineering technology.


                                                   20
    i)   New cooperation agreements across domestic higher education institutions,
         including shared access to TRIG-financed labs and equipment;
    ii) Stronger links with foreign institutions, as between the University of Arizona and
         HCMC University of Science and Technology (Group 1 university), and between
         institutions in Canada, Australia, Singapore and China and Travinh University
         (Group 2 university).
    iii) Hosting of graduate students from foreign universities;
    iv) Hosting of international conferences and workshops; and
    v) Expanded personal and professional connections among faculty members.
   Generated additional sources of income for universities, such as research contracts
    with industry and government agencies, as illustrated by:
    i) Hanoi’s University of Science and Technology’s contracts between the School of
         Biotechnology and Food Technology and several aquaculture and other food
         companies;
    ii) Training contract between INTEL and HCMC University of Science and
         Technology.
   Generated economic impacts at the local level through agricultural extension that had
    a substantial impact on the living conditions of local population. Local level economic
    impacts were particularly noteworthy among Group 2 universities, including:
    i) Food safety – Certification of disease-free zone for a large production area, which
         allow farmers to sell their products at a higher price;
    ii) Crop production – Watermelon production methods with water saving production
         modes by incorporating water tank, irrigation system and timers, which is
         consistent with climate change adaptation and has important impacts for producers
         in terms of labor and savings in the use of fertilizers.
   TRIG research projects have had important value in solving problems of public
    interest. Some examples are:
    i) Food production
          New tomato varieties have been recognized (i.e., HT 42 and HT 144);
          Virus that affected rice cultivation was identified and isolated; recommendations
             were made to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development that permitted
             its elimination by 2010,
          A rapid diagnostic kit and vaccine was developed for the prevention of foot-and-
             mouth disease.
          The PRRS virus in pigs was identified and isolated in 2010; recommendations
             were made to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to control the
             epidemic effectively.
    ii) Health
          Although not a new research topic, findings from research project on the
             treatment of cranial nerve tumors and arterial-venous malformations of the brain
             have contributed to improve treatment and public health care.




                                             21
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A workshop was conducted to assess the implementation experience of the TRIG
Program from Sept. 28-29, 2012 in Phan Thiết, Vietnam. Representatives from the World
Bank, the MoET as well as the twenty two universities that participated in the program
attended the workshop. The main conclusions are summarized in Annex 6.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
            Factors Affecting Sustainability of the Project’s Achievements
Rating: Low to Moderate
Overall, the risk that the progress made under the HEP II operation might not be
sustained is considered to be low to moderate.
The risk that universities might not be able to finance the anticipated recurrent costs
appears to be low.As part of their original TRIG proposals, universities were required to
address the sustainability of the investments supported by the TRIG grant, identifying
recurrent costs and the corresponding sources of funding after the operation’s completion.
In this regard, it is important to consider that, in Vietnam, universities have relatively
high levels of autonomy in term of their spending. In addition to the state budget, they
generate—and are encouraged to—their own-source resources through student fees,
research contracts, and other fee-for-service activities. They are also experienced in
mobilizing alternative sources of financed, including public funding, international
assistance, and funding from foreign universities, mainly in terms of graduate
scholarships. Data from HERA indicators suggest that universities are becoming
increasingly autonomous, with own-source funding as a proportion of total funding
increasing substantially from 2007 to 2012, from 5.2 percent to 11.8 percent for Group 1
and from 1.7 percent to 8.8 percent between 2007 and 2012 for Group 2.
The experience from the HEP I operation indicates that the universities are savvy in the
way they have continued to manage the investments under the preceding operation,
ensuring their adequate maintenance and operational inputs. This was corroborated by the
actions taken by some universities during the HEP II implementation, such as monitoring
the use of electronic databases acquired under TRIG to be able to make evidence-based
decisions on which subscriptions to discontinue after the project’s completion.
The only two considerations regarding potential risks to development outcomes are as
follows:
 The training of Ph.D. students is incompatible with the duration of an investment
    operation, as it usually takes longer to complete a doctoral program, which includes
    the writing of the dissertation. Of the 56 Ph.D. students financed under the operation,
    only ten were able to complete their studies during the life of the operation. This
    presents a problem for the remaining students in terms of the availability of financial
    resources. While both universities and the PMU are exploring alternative sources of
    funding to ensure the successful completion of their studies, this should be taken into
    account for future operations.
 The TRIG Impact Evaluation Study identified two potential problems regarding the
    sustainability of equipment financed under TRIG. First, although only in very few



                                            22
   cases, the inputs needed to conduct experiments (such as chemicals) are very costly,
   which might pose a problem if external funding is not secured under research
   contracts as envisioned. Second, the physical facilities in which the TRIG-financed
   equipment has been located do not always meet the needed conditions in terms of
   temperature, level of humidity, ventilation, etc., which might hinder their adequate
   maintenance.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
                              Bank’s Performance
a. Bank’s Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
As underscored in Section 2.1, the project benefited from its strong design, which
capitalized on the lessons learned from the preceding operation. The project’s scope and
focus reflected the Borrower’s and Bank’s mature, long term vision of Vietnam’s higher
education and its key role in the country’s economic development. As a result, it was
highly relevant from a policy perspective, fully aligned with the GoV’s own higher
education reform agenda and an important component of the Bank’s CPS, which
supported higher education reforms as a way to enhance the country’s competitiveness.
Finally, the demand-driven nature of the project design fostered autonomy and
institutional strengthening among participating universities and ensured that the technical
assistance provided under the project fully responded to the needs and aspirations of
participating universities.
b. Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The fact that the project is the first one in Vietnam’s education portfolio to close in a
timely fashion having disbursed 100 percent of the credit proceeds while fully attaining
its PDO is certainly an impressive accomplishment. Moreover, it attests to a highly
effective management and supervision of the project by the Bank’s supervision team.
Project supervision was in-depth and permanent, benefiting from a strong field presence,
as well as the continuity and first-hand knowledge of Vietnam’s education sector of key
team members. Close communication between the Borrower and the Bank, including
regular supervision missions with field trips to participating universities (e.g.,12
universities were visited by the Bank team during the April 2011 supervision mission)
helped keep track of the progress being made and identify the challenges being faced at
various stages of project implementation. The Bank team effectively used the
implementation ratings to signal to the Borrower those areas that needed improvement.
An in-depth MTR was conducted on schedule.
The Bank supervision team was highly proactive throughout the life of the project,
working closely with the government in key aspects of project implementation and
effectively helping to anticipate and address all potential bottlenecks. Specifically:
 In the preparation of policy-related outputs, the team succeeded in convincing the
    government to have an effective mix of international and local resources that both



                                            23
    capitalized on their relative competitive advantages and helped expedite procurement
    processes. For example, large sector studies that called for qualified international
    consultancy services were paired with studies produced by local consultants that
    focused on providing an overview of the current situation. These studies proved to be
    critical inputs into the larger sector studies and, at the same time, helped the project to
    deliver tangible outputs early on in the implementation process.
   The team also exhibited a highly proactive approach to help the government to
    manage the project funds. Specifically, surplus funds that resulted from procurement
    savings, activities that were cancelled and more favorable exchange rates were timely
    reassigned to Sub-component 2.1, increasing the funds available under TRIG grants.
    Eligibility criteria for these additional funds were consistent with the spirit of the
    project, and were allocated only among those universities with a demonstrated ability
    to implement.
   Finally, when the international consultant firm that had been contracted to perform
    the independent evaluation of the project failed to deliver, the Bank team suggested
    the PMU alternative ways to conduct independent evaluations of the various project
    components by relying on independent panels of experts from recognized local
    universities.


c. Justification of Rating for Overall Bank’s Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, the Bank’s performance is considered satisfactory, as it effectively prepared,
appraised, and supported the implementation of the HEP II operation, ensuring its
relevance and attainment of objectives in an efficient and timely manner.
                               Borrower’s Performance
a. Government’s Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Top authorities from the MoET and participating administrative units provided their full
support to the operation, including ensuring the stable flow of counterpart funds even
during difficult macro-economic periods resulting from the 2008 international financial
crisis. Their support is not surprising, given that the HSP II operation was fully aligned
with the government’s own Higher Education Reform Agenda (HERA). It is also worth
noting the enhanced responsibility given to universities in terms of procurement under
this operation, which denotes the commitment of MoET authorities to strengthening
universities’ autonomy and their ability to learn from the experience of the preceding
operation.
b. Implementing Agencies’ Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
National PMU: Its performance is deemed highly satisfactory. Given the project’s
logistical complexity, sound project management was a necessary condition for its
successful implementation. Throughout the project’s lifetime, the PMU exhibited strong
ownership of the project, a clear strategic vision, and the ability to provide strong


                                              24
technical and institutional support to participating universities. As discussed in the
Bank’s performance section, the project benefited from a highly proactive management
approach on the part of both the Bank and the PMU. Implementation bottlenecks, such as
procurement delays and undisbursed funds were detected early and addressed effectively
to ensure the project’s smooth implementation. The PMU also exhibited a strong capacity
for M&E functions, which contributed toward improving project management throughout
the life of the project. The PMU also succeeded in coordinating procurement activities
from participating universities and provided support as needed. As mentioned earlier, this
is not a minor accomplishment given the large number of contracts and ICB processes
conducted under the operation. While the internal auditing function, however, was not
implemented as originally envisioned, the project’s FM was adequate and weaknesses
flagged by the Bank were effectively addresses.
The high level of professionalism of the PMU team, their previous management
experience in academic and research institutions, as well as their stability throughout the
life of the operation were important factors contributing to the sound project
management.
It is also worth noting the strong counterpart role played by the representatives of the
MoET administrative units (i.e., the Department of Planning and Finance; and the
General Department of Education Testing and Accreditation) in the preparation of policy
analytical work under Component 1. They closely supervised the work of consultant
firms, both local and international, to ensure their overall quality and relevance for
Vietnam’s context. At the same time, they provided consultants and international experts
the freedom to provide candid assessments and recommendations. The sound quality of
the analytical work supported under the HSP II operation is a direct result of their strong
performance and ownership.
University-level TRIG Monitoring Units (TMUs): Their performance is considered
satisfactory. While there were differences in their relative level of performance,
participating universities met the participation requirements satisfactorily. They all
prepared TRIG proposals according to the specifications, including detailed information
on expected outputs, costs, and implementation schedule. They all established a TMU
with qualified staff as required and maintained throughout the life of the project. They
also complied with reporting requirements, albeit with different levels of timeliness. The
overall implementation of TRIG programs was satisfactory—with actual vis-à-vis
anticipated disbursements ranging from 40 to 150 percent, with an average of 94.1
percent.
c. Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower’s Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, the Borrower’s performance is deemed satisfactory for the reasons stated above.




                                            25
6. Lessons Learned
                 Lessons Learned from the Implementation of HEP II
Lessons of wide general application
Valuable lessons can be extracted from the implementation experience of the HEP II,
which could be useful in the design of future operations focusing on higher education in
Vietnam and elsewhere. The main lessons can be summarized as follows:
 The key ingredients for project success always go beyond the sphere of project
  itself.
  The HEP II benefited from a clearly defined medium term higher education reform
  strategy on the part of the GoV, which has the support of all key stakeholders.
  Moreover, the Bank’s support strategy at both the country level and for the higher
  education sub-sector is in full alignment with the GoV agenda. Sustained political
  support and a relatively stable implementation environment were also key factors in
  the HEP II success.
 A proper combination of lending instruments is crucial to consolidate complex
  reform processes.
  The Bank’s support for Vietnam’s higher education reform efforts has adopted a
  multi-pronged strategy. It combines both SIL and DLP operations that have been
  conceived as a whole and fully complement each other. The SIL operations were
  designed to generate analytical inputs needed for the formulation of the overall reform
  strategy. In addition, they were aimed at building much needed technical and
  institutional capacity at the central government and university levels. In turn, the DPL
  series has provided substantial financial incentives to move forward more challenging
  and politically costly policy reforms.
 Sequential operations offer great learning potential.
  As illustrated by the experience of the HEP II, follow-on operations can effectively
  build upon the implementation experience of preceding operations to enhance both the
  achievement of objectives as well as their implementation. The HEP II design
  benefited from strong learning on the part of the Bank and the MoET, as well as the
  implementation capacity built by participating universities under the preceding
  operation.
 Active project management is a key ingredient for successful project
  implementation.
  With the support of a robust M&E system, the PMU and the Bank were able to
  identify early on implementation weaknesses and potential bottlenecks. These were
  addressed promptly and decisively, making all the needed adjustments in line with the
  spirit of the project. This is illustrated, for example, by the performance-based
  reallocation of unused project funds among participating universities.
 M&E systems have to be conceived as a critical element of an operation’s design.
  Although it was not fully implemented as originally anticipated, the development of a
  robust M&E system was a key feature of the HEP II design and an important factor
  determining its successful implementation. The M&E was particularly effective in
  tracking implementation progress at the university level—a complex task given the
  diverse nature of TRIG sub-projects, the decentralized implementation of the project,



                                           26
  and the large number of implementing entities (i.e., twenty two universities with a
  wide range of institutional capacity). The information requirements of the M&E
  system were taken into consideration at the design stage, and informed, among other
  aspects, the format and content of TRIG proposals.
 Strong field presence, continuity and a sector-wide view on the part of the Bank
  teams give operations a substantial implementation advantage.
  The HEP II Bank team had several advantages, including being based on the field and
  being responsible for the entire higher education portfolio in Vietnam, including SIL
  operations (i.e., the HEP II and the preceding operation) and the DPL series.
 It is important to ensure the full alignment between the PDO and the actions
  supported under the operation, as well as the alignment between the PDO and
  the Key Performance Indicators.
  In the case of the HEP II, the PDO encompassed multiple dimensions, which were not
  all fully captured by the Project Result Framework. In particular, enhancing the
  quality of teaching was not captured by its corresponding KPI (i.e., universities
  conducting quality self-assessments). At the same time, the PDO included some
  dimensions (i.e., enhancing the relevance of research and employability of graduates),
  that were only indirectly supported by specific actions or incentives under the
  operation
 A project’s design can, in itself, reinforce its underlying strategic objectives.
  In the case of the HEP II, the demand-driven nature of the TRIG sub-projects was
  fully consistent with the emphasis on enhancing universities’ autonomy under the
  GoV’s higher education reform strategy. In addition, it ensured the alignment between
  the project’s support and the recipients’ self-determined needs. Moreover, by requiring
  that TRIG proposals be consistent with the universities’ strategic plans, the project
  avoided fragmenting the project’s impact, which is one of the risks of the demand-
  driven approach.
 Balancing efficiency and equity targeting criteria can have multiple advantages.
  TRIG universities included both “top? and “disadvantageous? universities to balance
  efficiency and equity criteria. An unforeseen advantage of including
  “disadvantageous? universities was their strong economic development impact at the
  community level as a result of the agricultural extension nature of their research
  activities. It is also worth noting that a “disadvantageous? university had the highest
  level of actual disbursements relative to its initial allocation of funds, underscoring its
  performance potential as well as the effective support they received from the PMU.
Project-specific lessons
 The project’s lifetime was incompatible with some of its expected outcomes.
  The training of Ph.D. students, which was one of the project’s intermediate outcomes,
  is incompatible with the project’s duration, as it usually takes longer to complete a
  doctoral program, which includes the writing of the dissertation. The same problem
  arises in relation to one of the project’s outcome indicators—i.e., the publication of
  research papers in peer-reviewed academic journals, which is also a lengthy process.
 Support for staff development requires an integrated, medium-term perspective.
  While the HEP II supported doctoral and Master’s level training of faculty members,
  not all universities were well prepared to fully capitalize on it. The universities that


                                             27
    benefitted the most were the ones that had already in place a long-term staff
    development strategy that had identified skill gaps as well as a pool of potential
    candidates. Some universities imposed additional eligibility criteria for their
    candidates, including adequate language skills and proven ability to perform by having
    published previously.
   Ensuring the sustainability of equipment investments is always a challenge.
    While universities were required to ensure the adequate maintenance and operation of
    the equipment acquired under the operation, this is always challenging, particularly in
    the case of highly specialized technical equipment that requires expensive inputs as
    well as a controlled physical environment.
   TRIG subprojects offered great potential for economies of scale and cross-
    fertilization.
    TRIG subprojects, which were being simultaneously implemented by multiple
    universities, offer a great potential for economies of scale and integration. As was the
    case in the HEP II, there was the opportunity to develop management tools at the
    national level that could be used by individual universities to support the program’s
    implementation, thus capitalizing on potential economies of scale and easing the
    institutional burdening on individual universities. In addition, this type of projects can
    serve as incubators, fostering the generation of innovative solutions for common
    problems. The ultimate impact, however, depends on the ability of higher levels of
    government—in this case the MoET—to recognize the value of an innovation and its
    potential for replication, and to ensure its dissemination among other participants.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies: The HEP2 has contributed to a new development
stage of many leading universities in Vietnam. It has also offered universities the
opportunity to improve their accountability, skills of project implementation,
management and monitoring (see Annex 7 for a more detailed evaluation on the part of
the Borrower).

 (b) Co-financiers
The operation received US$4.8 million co-financing from Japan in the form of a Bank-
administered Trust Fund, of which US$2.6 million were utilized. The Government of
Japan was not involved in the project’s implementation; thus, their comments have not
been requested.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
                                            N.A.




                                              28
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                                                                    Percentage
                                                Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                                                                        of
    Components                                Estimate (US$          Estimate
                                                                                    Appraisal
                                                 millions)         (US$ millions)
                                                                                       (%)
1 Capacity building for policy
                                                   4.5                  2.3            51
   development
2 Capacity building for university
                                                   61.3                 58.2           95
   teaching and research
3 Project management, monitoring
                                                   4.0                  2.9            73
   and evaluation
Total Baseline Cost                                69.7
Physical Contingencies                             0.4
Price Contingencies                                0.4
Total Project Costs                                70.5                 63.4           90
Total Financing Required                           70.5
Note: As of October 2012.


(b) Financing

                                 Appraisal    Actual/Latest   % of
                                 Estimate       Estimate    Appraisal
Source of Funds
                                   (US$           (US$
                                 millions)      millions)
Counterpart funds                    6.3           5.45       86.5
SR Vietnam                           0.8           0.95      118.6
TRIG Universities                    5.5            4.5       81.3
IDA (World Bank)                    59.4           55.5       93.4
Japan ((PHRD)                        4.8           2.58       53.8
Total                               70.5           63.5        90




                                             29
                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1 - Capacity Building for Policy Development (US$4.8 million)
Achievement: Satisfactory
This component provided financial support for analytical work needed as inputs in the
ongoing higher education reform efforts being carried out by the GoV and with World
Bank support under the IBRD’s HERSP DPL series. The specific focus of the analytical
work was on governance, financing and quality assurance aspects of Vietnam’s higher
education system, each of which constituted an individual sub-component.
To ensure sustainability of the capacity building activities, each of the three sub-
components was implemented by the MoET department responsible for the relevant
policy area: Higher Education Department (DHE), Department of Planning and
Financing (DPF) and Department of Educational Testing and Accreditation (DETA).
Coordination across these sub-components was achieved through a Senior Management
Group, which brought together on a regular basis the heads of each of the three
implementing units, the Project Director and the TRIG Manager. Each of the various
activities involved a small counterpart teams constituted of MoET and university staff
with external support from a consultant firm. This mix of local and international
resources helped ensure strong ownership on the part of domestic stakeholders, an
understanding of the country’s conditions, access to international good practice, and the
transfer of skills from international and national experts. In each case, the teams' analytic
work was combined with the design and implementation of practical applications through
planning retreats, review workshops, policy seminars.
Sub-component 1.1 – Higher education governance
Description: This sub-component was implemented by MoET's Dept. of Higher
Education. It focused on organizational and governance aspects of the higher education
system at central higher education institution levels. Technical assistance provided under
this sub-component included policy advice and capacity building focusing on: (a)
developing policy options and recommendations on the organization and governance of
the higher education sector; (b) developing policy options and recommendations on a
regulatory frameworks for the integration of advanced research and teaching and for the
promotion of private sector investment; and (c) building a new HEMPIS using a set of
standard key indicators to enable decision-makers to monitor the performance of the
higher education sector.
Achievement of Intermediate Results
   Organization and governance
    Achieved: A Higher Education Master Plan was prepared with input from 50
    colleges and universities, six research institutions, and ten employers. It provides an
    overview of the higher education system in Vietnam, including the main weaknesses,
    and offers recommendations. An independent review panel constituted by
    representatives of higher education institutions concluded that the Master Plan
    presents an accurate depiction of Vietnam‘s higher education system and a series of
    key recommendation for policy reform that, if implemented, would drastically
    transform and modernize it.
   Regulatory frameworks for the integration of research and teaching and private sector
    investment.


                                             30
    Achieved: Specific recommendations are included in the Higher Education Master
    Plan.
   Higher education management and policy information system (HEMPIS)
    Not Achieved: The development of HEMPIS was eventually cancelled, as there was
    no shared vision within the MoET’s various departments of the specific role to be
    played by the new information system, which caused substantial delays in the
    preparation of the corresponding Terms of Reference. A more limited information
    system is being developed by the MoET.
Overall impact: Even though HEMPIS was not implemented as anticipated, the
analytical work produced under this sub-component constitutes a substantial contribution
to the ongoing policy dialogue on higher education reform and has been utilized as an
input in newly issued regulations and legislation that strengthen the overall governance
framework of Vietnam’ higher education system. In particular, the process of developing
the Higher Education Master Plan, the actual end-product and its dissemination have
served to bring awareness over the main weaknesses of existing organizational and
governance arrangements of Vietnam’s Higher Education System, including the fractured
nature of the system, and the generalized lack of academic, managerial, and financial
autonomy of higher education institutions. The diagnosis and recommendations were
important inputs in the Higher Education Act (approved in June 2012), which represents
an important step toward strengthening autonomy and improving efficiency, quality,
responsiveness and accountability of higher education and research institutions. The
Higher Education Act reflects many of the recommendations of the Master Plan,
including the adoption of a multi-tiered system, the definition of functions to be carried
out by key bodies within HEIs differentiated by tier, and the definition of the
management structure at the university level. The analytical work carried out under this
sub-component has also served to develop the proposal for drastic and comprehensive
reform of Vietnam Higher Education, which was submitted to the Communist Party of
Vietnam to be considered for adoption. Finally, it has served as inputs in several
regulations issued by the Prime Minister or MoET regarding the overall organization and
governance structure of Vietnam’s higher education system. The Higher Education Act
and the various regulations have served to meet key policy conditions under the Higher
Education Development Policy Program.
Sub-component 1.2 – Higher education financing
Description: This sub-component was implemented by MoET's Department of Planning
and Finance. It was aimed at reviewing the public funding of higher education
institutions, building on the recommendations concerning public financing set out in the
joint Government-Bank Public Expenditure Review (April 2005). Technical assistance
provided under this sub-component included policy advice and capacity building
focusing on: (a) developing policy options and recommendations on the allocation of
public expenditure across public and non-public HEIs; and (b) developing policy options
and recommendations on student tuition fees and financial assistance for students from
disadvantaged backgrounds, such as fee waivers.
Achievement of Intermediate Results
   Public funding for higher education
    Achieved: A study of the cost of higher education per student was carried out for
    various groups of disciplines within Vietnam’s higher education system based on


                                           31
    survey data from 150 universities and personal interviews with representatives of 24
    public universities. The study also determined a reasonable level of expenditures per
    student and offered recommendations for future tuition policies. An independent
    review panel constituted by representatives of higher education institutions concluded
    that the policy recommendations are appropriate and relevant for Vietnam.
   Student tuition fees and financial assistance
    Achieved: A study focusing on higher education financing was carried out, including
    an overview of current financial mechanisms as well as reporting requirements on the
    part of individual universities and colleges. The study also offered recommendations
    to improve reporting formats.
Overall impact: The analytical work financed under this sub-component has helped
MoET departments in the development of policies regarding public funding for higher
education in general as well as determining the allocation of funds to individual higher
education institutions based on unitary costs. It also provided recommendations to
improve the financial reporting of higher education institutions. Findings and
recommendations from the two studies were an important input of the decree regulating
on tuition fees for the period 2011-2015 (issued on May 2010).
Sub-component 1.3 – Higher education quality assurance
Description: This sub-component was implemented by the MoET’s Department of
Education Testing and Accreditation (DETA). It supported further strengthening of two
dimensions of quality: i) quality of students at entry; and ii) quality of services provided
by higher education institutions. Technical assistance provided under this sub-component
included policy advice and capacity building focusing on: (a) developing policy options
and recommendations on a set of minimum standards against which public and non-
public HEIs can be accredited and on the establishment of an independent accreditation
agency to reinforce these standards by auditing the internal quality assurance procedures
in higher education institutions; and (b) developing policy options and recommendations
on the higher education admissions system.
Specific Intermediate Results
   Accreditation and quality culture
    Achieved: There was substantial knowledge building on quality assurance supported
    under this sub-component, including workshops with the participation of international
    consultants focusing on the development of internal quality assurance systems at the
    institution level and the development of a quality assurance and accreditation system
    for the higher education as a whole. Tools and substantial technical assistance were
    provided to universities and colleges to support the development of an internal quality
    culture, including instruments to capture feedback from students, graduates and
    employers. In line with 2010 regulation calling for the establishment of independent
    accreditation agencies, a report was prepared, presenting a roadmap for the
    development and establishment of accreditation agencies and an accreditation system
    as a whole, which was deemed to be systematic, comprehensive, scientific and
    valuable study work by a panel of independent reviewers.
   Admissions systems
    Cancelled: This activity was cancelled as the MoET issued new regulations
    regarding admissions.
Overall impact: The activities carried out under this component served to strengthen

                                            32
technical capacity among those responsible for internal quality assurance at individual
colleges and universities, helping them better implement quality assurance systems
gradually build a quality culture. They also served to strengthen the technical capacity at
the MoET’s level, in particular DETA’s ability to provide substantive inputs in the
drafting of quality-assurance related regulation (i.e., establishment of an independent
accreditation agency and its functions, tasks and rights; accreditation cycle of
universities, colleges and professional secondary schools; and accreditation standards).
Component 2 – Capacity Building for University Teaching and Research (US$ 61.4
    million)
Achievement: Satisfactory
This component aimed to strengthen teaching and research in twenty two participating
universities, by: (i) building management capacity in universities, including the carrying
out of regular surveys as a management monitoring tool; and (ii) financing Teaching and
Research Innovation Grant (TRIG) sub-projects in two groups of universities: Group 1
concentrating on “major? universities as designated by the GoV, and Group 2
guaranteeing a small allocation for “equity? universities located in disadvantaged regions.
Sub-component 2.1 – Management of TRIG capacity
Description: This sub-component was implemented by the PMU and provided training
and capacity building at the university level. Specifically, it provided training and
capacity building on management skills, including procurement and financial
management to universities implementing the TRIG sub-projects. It also provided
support to the autonomous universities that were to emerge as a result of the ongoing
policy reforms in terms of leadership and management skills as well as institutional
quality assurance plans, including carrying out of regular surveys as a management
monitoring tool, such as graduate tracer surveys. Capacity building under this program
took the form of training workshops and seminars and included other forms of technical
assistance such as mentoring or twinning arrangements and study tours for selected staff.
Specific Intermediate Results
   TRIG sub-project management
    Achieved: Substantial capacity was built among participating universities through a
    series of workshops and training seminars at various stages of implementation. These
    activities included: training and workshop on the design of TRIG sub-projects;
    implementation support, including reporting, financial management and procurement,
    including the development of TRIG Management Software.
   University leadership and management
    Achieved: A series of capacity building activities were carried out to strengthen
    universities’ ability to design, implementation and management of HEP II.
   Institutional quality assurance (QA)
    Achieved: Developed instruments to systematically collect feedback from students
    (e.g., teacher and course evaluations), graduates and employers on the quality of
    training; conducted pilots surveys to test the various instruments; disseminated among
    all colleges and universities.
Overall impact: The activities carried out under this component served to strengthen
implementation capacity among participating universities, as illustrated by the successful
and timely project implementation. In addition, activities under this sub-component serve


                                            33
to enhance leadership and QA capacity among the entire universe of higher education
institutions.
Sub-component 2.2 – Implementation of TRIGs
Description: This sub-component was implemented by the twenty two participating
universities, with a total enrollment of almost 50,000 students. It was aimed at building
and strengthening capacity of universities in research, and teaching, by establishing
closer links between research, teaching, industry and the community. Grants were used
for human resources and professional development of university academic staff,
improvement of teaching and research infrastructure, support for research projects and for
national and international cooperation in teaching, research and industry.
TRIGs were allocated using a peer-review process based on transparent and objective
criteria among two groups of universities. Group 1, which concentrated the bulk of TRIG
funds, focused on “major? universities as designated by GoV. Group 2, which
represented a small allocation of funds, focused on “equity? universities located in
disadvantaged regions. Thus, TRIG funding varied among individual universities based
on: i) the type of universities; and ii) their specific proposal. Group 1 universities could
apply for a maximum of US$5 million of TRIG funding, while the maximum for Group 2
universities was a maximum of US$2 million. Universities had to contribute at least ten
percent in counterpart funds, but they could contribute more. Actual TRIG funds ranged
from US$750,000 to US$4 million for individual universities.
Each participating university identified the set of activities to be implemented under their
TRIG grants. These activities were consistent with the strategic plan of each university
and represented their own priorities. As a whole, universities gave priority to
infrastructure (i.e., labs, teaching materials and equipment, library resources, etc.) under
their grants, which represented 54 percent of total TRIG investments. However, “soft?
investments in staff development and capacity building (i.e., short and long-term training)
represented a significant share of TRIG investments, accounting for 33 percent of the
total. Research activities, which were funded under this sub-component with counterpart
funds by participating universities, represented seven percent of total TRIG investments
(see Table 3 and Figure 3).
                 Table 3 and Figure 3. Initial TRIG allocation by investment type
                         Initial allocation of TRIG
     Areas of TRIG
                             financial resources
     investments
                         US$ millions       % of total
                                                                                Training
     Training                       19.60        32.7%
                                                                                Research
     Research                        4.15             6.9%                      Infrastructure
     Infrastructure                32.32         53.9%                          Other

     Other                           3.94             6.6%
     Total                         60.00         100.0%

     Source: PMU (Oct., 2012)
At the university level, grants exhibited a wide range of variation in terms of focus and
type of investment (see Figure 4). For example, infrastructure investments ranged from
only 1 percent of all TRIG investments in the case of Ho Chi Min City College of
Education to 89 percent in Hanoi Medical University. Correspondingly, these two


                                                        34
institutions also exhibited the largest and smallest investment in training and staff
development activities, representing 72 percent and 3.8 percent of their overall TRIG
investments, respectively. There was also substantial variation in research investments,
ranging from 34 percent in Hanoi Agricultural University to none in several universities.
As mentioned earlier, this variation is consistent with the demand-driven nature of TRIG
grants, which was a key determinant in ensuring the alignment of TRIG funding with the
self-determined needs of participating universities.
      Figure 4. Variation in the university share of TRIG investment by type of investment
                       Training                                      Research                                    Infrastructure




 0%         20%         40%       60%     80%   0%         20%        40%       60%       80%   0%         20%        40%     60%       80%
      Average: 32.7%          Median: 23.4%          Average: 6.9%              Median:3.2%          Average: 53.9%         Median: 63.7%


      Source: PMU (Oct., 2012)


Overall TRIG achievement is deemed satisfactory, although the level of performance
varies across universities. As a whole, universities were able to implement 94.1 percent
of the resources that were initially allocated to them. Some universities were more
successful than others in terms of implementation and, as a result of two rounds of
reallocation of funds, were able to implement more than their initial allocations—up to
150 percent in the case of Dong Thap University—one of the best performing universities
that happened to be in Group 2. The University of Economics in HCMC was at the other
end of the spectrum, having disbursed only 40 percent of their initial allocation. Overall,
only two out of the twenty-two universities (i.e., less than 10 percent) disbursed less than
50 percent of their initial TRIG allocations and only six of them (i.e., 27 percent)
disbursed less than 90 percent. Difference between actual disbursements and the initial
allocation were the result of activities that had to be cancelled as a result of disbursement
delays as well as other factors, such as estimation of the original budgets and savings
from a weak dollar. Overall, the large majority of participating universities (i.e., 90
percent) is expected to have achieved or exceeded the objectives specified in their
individual proposals.




                                                                      35
     Figure 5. Variation in university share of disbursements relative to initial TRIG
                                         allocation




                    0%       25%          50%         75%        100%     125%         150%   175%
                         Average: 94.1%                                    Median: 105%


                 Source: PMU (Oct., 2012)


Specific Intermediate Results
  Faculty development
   Achieved: Overseas Ph.D. and Master’s training of teaching and research staff is
   roughly in line with the original target. Doctoral studies in foreign institutions have
   been funded under TRIG for a total of 56 faculty members. In addition, Master’s
   studies have been funded for 149 faculty members, with the large majority attending
   foreign institutions.

                              Table 4. TRIG staff development outputs
TRIG Staff                   Foreign institutions            National institutions                     Total
Development Activities       Planned            Actual       Planned         Actual           Planned          Actual
PhDs                            57               56                0             0              57              56      *
Master's                       147               143               4             6             151              149     **
Short training courses        1,051             1,368            20381       21407            21,432           22,775
Study tours                    319               429              151            270           470              699
Workshops and seminars         184               207             8967        14321             9,151           14,528
Total                         1,758             2,203            29,503      36,004           31,261           38,207

    * Out of 56 PhD students, ten have already obtained their degrees an
    ** Out of 149 Master's students, 111 have already completed their degrees and
    returned to Vietnam.
    Source: PMU (Oct., 2012)

     Capacity building
      Achieved: A total of 22,775 faculty and staff have attended short training courses,
      slightly exceeding the original target. Targets for the number of participants in study
      tours as well as workshops and seminars were also exceeded by roughly 50 and 60


                                                            36
    percent, respectively. As mentioned earlier, the focus of capacity building activities
    and corresponding training plan was included under the original TRIG proposal and
    provided support to the overall objectives. In this way, depending on the focus of the
    TRIG activities being implemented by participating universities, capacity building
    activities focused on research and teaching methods, utilization and maintenance of
    technical equipment, curricula development, certification standards, management
    capacity, etc.
   Curricula development
    Achieved: Substantial progress was made in terms of curricula development, with
    467 programs and 1,173 courses being newly developed or substantially revised. The
    adoption of credit-based system was one of the main factors underlying curricula
    development activities. In addition, some courses are now offered in English. In
    addition, several TRIG sub-projects supported the development of teaching materials,
    including lab protocols and worksheets—often in conjunction with newly purchased
    equipment—as well as the expansion of existing test banks.

                         Table 5. TRIG curricula development outputs
               TRIG Training-related          Newly developed             Restructuring
               Outputs                        Actual        Planned     Actual     Planned
               Program curricula               238           165         229        177
               Course syllabus                 174            67         999        594
               Experiment protocols            246            71         144         15
               Experiment worksheets           373           200         38         4284

               Source: PMU (Oct., 2012)

   Infrastructure upgrading
    Achieved: TRIG funds supported the upgrading and provision of equipment for
    laboratories, computer networks, multi-media teaching facilities and library
    resources. The specific outputs include: 111 state-of-the art laboratories, six computer
    networks, 29 multi-media teaching classroom and lecture halls, as well as five new
    libraries. As in the case of all TRIG investments, infrastructure outputs were key
    components of the corresponding sub-project and were complemented with the
    training needed to ensure their full utilization.

                               Table 6. TRIG infrastructure outputs
             TRIG-financed infrastructure                                Planned     Actual
             Networks                                                          8          6
             Books and periodicals (i.e., hard and electronic copies)     44,953    38,755
             Subscriptions to electronic databases                            63      69
             Labs
                New                                                           59      54
                Upgraded                                                      26      57      *
             Multimedia classrooms and lecture halls                          26      29

     * This number increased substantially as a result of additional equipment financed
    under reallocated funds.



                                                       37
   Source: PMU (Oct., 2012)
Overall impact: The impact of TRIG sub-projects varied by university based on the
specific focus of their individual proposals. Results from the TRIG Impact Assessment
Study as well as Self Evaluation Reports prepared by each university report positive
impacts in terms of: long-term development of faculty members in research and teaching;
external accreditation; building institutional systems to support teaching, learning and
research at the university level; linking research to teaching and learning; improving the
content, instruction delivery, and assessment methods in undergraduate and postgraduate
courses; developing linkages between universities, research institutions, the productive
sector, and social and community organizations in Vietnam; supporting the
internationalization of research and teaching in universities in the form of twinning,
collaborative research, and sponsorship to achieve international recognition in teaching
and research standards, and quality through international cooperation programs.
Component 3 – Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$4.3 million)
Achievement: Satisfactory
This component aimed to support and to ensure a smooth and effective implementation of
the project. This component covered both project coordination (including planning,
procurement, financial management and communications) as well as project monitoring
and evaluation. This Component also provided support to the MoET’s Department of
Higher Education in the design and preparation of the Higher Education Reform Support
(HERSP) DPL series.
Sub-component 3.1 – Administration and Management
Description: This sub-component provided support to the PMU in the areas of
information flows, coordination, administration, financial management and procurement.
Sub-component level of achievement: Satisfactory
Specific Intermediate Results
   Project management
    Achieved: Project management activities were carried out effectively, including
    independent audit, financial management. Internal auditing functions were not fully
    implemented as originally anticipated.
Overall impact: The activities carried out under this component served to ensure the
HEP II successful and timely implementation.
Sub-component 3.2 – Monitoring and Evaluation
Description: This sub-component was managed by the M&E Coordinator to monitor
HEP2 implementation progress and the achievement of its development objective. In
addition, the M&E Coordinator, with the support o f the Project Director, supervised the
TRIG evaluation study and other technical assistance offered in the areas of M&E
Sub-component level of achievement: Satisfactory
Specific Intermediate Results
  Project monitoring
   Achieved: Ongoing project monitoring activities were carried out effectively, with
   participating universities proving regular TRIG sub-projects progress reports and the
   M&E coordinator overseeing the overall project implementation.

                                           38
   Independent project evaluation
    Partially achieved: The international consultant firm selected to produce the
    Independent Project and TRIG Evaluation Study failed to deliver as anticipated.
    While the contract was signed in September, 2009 with an agreed timeline for
    deliverables, there were substantial delays in the submission of deliverables, which
    eventually led to the termination of the contract. To ameliorate the negative impact,
    the PMU commissioned a series of independent evaluation studies by panels of
    university experts focusing on sub-components 1.1, 1.2, and 1.3 as well as TRIG sub-
    projects implemented by participating universities.
Overall impact: The activities carried out under this component served to ensure the
close monitoring of implementation progress. The PMU and universities maintained very
good data on the project activities and results, which were regularly presented in the
Project M&E Progress Reports. In turn, these data were critical to effectively manage as
well as supervise project implementation. Project evaluation, particularly with respect to
TRIG sub-projects, as the independent concurrent M&E function that was originally
envisioned was not implemented due to the poor performance of the international
consultant firm. However, the set of independent ex-post evaluation studies
commissioned by the PMU helped partially fill the void.




                                           39
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis: The economic analysis performed at appraisal continues to be
relevant in view of the project’s actual achievements, which are in line with those
anticipated. The economic analysis took into consideration three types of benefits: i)
productivity gains of graduates from participating universities; ii) efficiency gains at the
university level and iii) rates of return from research and development investments under
the project. The economic analysis was based on a set of conservative assumptions,
including a ten-year benefit horizon for TRIG universities in terms of enhanced quality of
teaching, a 30 year benefit horizon for graduates in terms of additional income, and a
five-year benefit horizon for R&D activities (see Table 7).

            Table 7. Benefits – Assumed Parameter Values for Based Scenario




   Source: HEP II Project Appraisal Document (May, 2007)


                                            40
The economic analysis yielded an Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of 34
percent, indicating the project’s strong economic efficiency. The results of sensitivity
analysis depicting less favorable assumptions still yield robust IERRs, ranging from 23 to
28 percent (see Table 8).

                         Table 8. Summary of Sensitivity Analysis




       Source: HEP II Project Appraisal Document (May, 2007)

Financial Analysis: The project’s financial rate of return was not estimated at appraisal.
However, there are three observations that indicate the universities will have the ability to
finance operating expenditures of TRIG investments beyond the life of the project.
Specifically:

   Universities complied with 10 percent co-financing requirements as anticipated.
   In several cases, universities have secured research and service contracts with
    government organizations and private firms as a result of new equipment financed
    under TRIGs that will provide them with recurrent additional revenues.
   HERA indicators denote a gradual but continuous increase in universities own-source
    revenues, independently of the project.




                                             41
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
                                                                    Responsibility/
         Names                        Title                Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
ALBERT-LOTH Agnes            Senior Finance Officer       LOAG2
ARISTORENAS Rosario            Program Assistant          EASHD
BALL Carol                  Senior Operations Officer     EASHD
DUONG Quoc Vinh              Environment Specialist       EASES
                           Lead Human Development
Di GROPELLO Emanuela                                      AFTEW
                                   Economist
KIJIMA Rie                       M&E Specialist         MNSHD
MAI Thi Thanh              Senior Education Speciatlist EASED
                                                        Consulta
MOOCK Peter                   Education Economist
                                                          nt
NESMITH Katherine         Junior Professional Associate EASHD
NGUYEN Hoai Linh               Operations Analyst       EASHD
NGUYEN Hoi Chan                  Senior Counsel         LEGEA
NGUYEN Minh Nguyet             Program Assistant        EACVF
NGUYEN Thi Phuong
                             Environment Specialist       EASRE
Trang
NGUYEN Thuy Anh                 Operations Analyst       EASHD
NGUYEN Van Linh                 Program Assistant        EACVF
                            Senior Social Development
PHAM Thi Mong Hoa                                        EASSO
                                    Specialist
PHAN Thi Xuan Quynh       Financial Management Analyst EAPCO
THOMSON Jennifer            Senior Financial Specialist  EAPCO
TRAN Thi Hai Chau                Finance Analyst         LOAG1
TRAN Quang Thong         Financial Management Specialist EAPCO
TRAN Thi Hang Hiet            Procurement Specialist     EAPCO
WAITE Jeffrey                      Team Leader           EASHD
WATKINS Alfred            Lead Science and Technology
                                                         HNDED
                                    Specialist
WEBER Luc                                                Consulta
                           Higher Education Specialist
                                                           nt
                             Higher Education Grants     Consulta
WOODHALL Maureen
                                    Specialist             nt
Supervision/ICR
Thanh Thi Mai            Senior Education Specialist, TTL EASHE
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo      Lead Procurement Specialist EAPPR
Carol Chen Ball                    Consultant             EASHD



                                       42
Rie Kijima                           Consultant           EASHD
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                      Consultant           OPCIL
Anh Thuy Nguyen                  Operations Officer       EASHH
Nguyet Minh Nguyen               Program Assistant        EACVF
Quynh Xuan Thi Phan               Financial Officer        GEF
Jennifer K. Thomson       Financial Management Specialist SARFM
Hiet Thi Hong Tran         Senior Procurement Specialist EAPPR
Anh Lan Vu                           Temporary            EACVF
Binh Thanh Vu                Senior Education Specialist EASHE
Jeffrey Waite                 Lead Education Specialist   MNSHE
                                                          Consulta
Cecilia Zanetta                    ICR Specialist
                                                            nt


(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                                Staff Time and Cost
                                                 (Bank budget only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands
                                   No. of staff weeks     (incl. travel and consultant
                                                                      costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                45.08
  FY04                                                                64.57
  FY05                                                                49.62
  FY06                                                               125.27
  FY07                                                               142.35
  FY08                                                                 0.30
Total:                                                               427.19
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                52.88
  FY09                                                                45.51
  FY10                                                                34.85
  FY11                                                                57.58
  FY12                                                               116.54
  FY13                                                                41.85
Total:                                                               349.21


                                        43
                                Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

An evaluation of the TRIG Program was commissioned to a panel of independent
university researchers. The results from this evaluation reflect the findings from a total of
536 personal interviews with management, teaching and research staff and students of 17
TRIG–recipient universities (i.e., 188 managers, 185 staff, and 163 students), as well as
responses from 5,502 surveys that were distributed among 750 managers, 1,585 staff and
3,167 students of the 22 TRIG universities.

Results from this evaluation indicate that the TRIG program had substantial positive
impacts in terms on enhancing management, teaching and research skills of faculty and
staff, supporting curricular development, and providing universities with needed
equipment and teaching materials. The specific results of the evaluation can be
summarized as follows:

             TRIG Inputs                                             TRIG Outcomes
 Staff development
  TRIG funding focused on enhancing                    Administrators and faculty rate the impact
   the structural quality of faculty                     of TRIG interventions on management
   members by financing their graduate                   effectiveness as 3.7 and 3.4, respectively,
   education at the Master’s and Ph.D.                   in a scale of 1 to 5.
   levels.                                              More than half of the administrators being
  It also supported specific skill                      interviewed as part of the study (i.e., 54
   development through short term                        percent) rate the improvements on
   training courses and workshops as                     teaching effectiveness resulting from
   well as study tours. The focus of                     TRIG interventions to be 4 or higher in a
   these programs was defined by                         scale of 1 to 5.11
   participating universities and                       Some of the specific improvements
   included, among others,                               reported in terms of teaching effectiveness
   management skills, teaching and                       include: i) enhanced communication,
   research methods, and training on                     including more teacher-student interaction
   the use of technical equipment.                       as well as communication being more
                                                         open and friendly; and added emphasis on
                                                         self-learning and creative problem
                                                         solving; development of teamwork skills
                                                         and other important soft skills.
                                                        Faculty members report enhanced ability
                                                         to perform the various tasks involved in
                                                         conducting research as a result of training
                                                         or research funding received under TRIG
                                                         initiatives. Specifically, in a scale of 1 to
                                                         5, they rank the impact of TRIG initiatives


11
     No results were reported for faculty responses.


                                                       44
                                               as 3.48 in terms of enhancing their
                                               substantive knowledge on the research
                                               topic; 3.53 in terms of their ability to
                                               identify and select of a research topic;
                                               3.44 in terms of their ability to write a
                                               research proposal; 3.61 in terms of their
                                               ability to collect data; 3.53 in terms of
                                               their ability to analyze and interpret data;
                                               and 3.52 in terms of their ability to write a
                                               research paper.
Curricula and program development
 TRIG funding supported course and        Administrators and staff rate the impact of
  program restructuring, much of what       TRIG interventions on program and
  was done as part of the transition to     course development and restructuring as
  the newly adopted credit-base             3.7 and 3.5, respectively, in a scale of 1 to
  system.                                   5.
 It also supported the development of     Much of the curricular development was
  new courses and programs, some of         done as part of the transition to the newly
  them with input from employers            adopted credit-base system.
                                           In some cases, program and course
                                            restructuring was done with input from
                                            employers.
Teaching materials
 TRIG funding supported the               Administrators and staff rate the impact of
  development of lab protocols and lab      TRIG interventions on the development of
  worksheets to support the use of the      lab-related teaching materials as 3.7 and
  new labs established under the            3.5, respectively, in a scale of 1 to 5. In
  project                                   most cases, these activities complemented
 It also supported the development of      the expansion and/or upgrading of labs as
  standardized tests, including the         well as the establishment of new ones.
  improvement and expansion of test
  banks.
Library resources
 TRIG funding supported the               Faculty report particularly high levels of
  acquisition of library materials,         satisfaction and utilization of library
  including books and electronic            resources.
  databases.
 It also supported the development of
  modern library management
  systems, including electronic
  catalogs.
Lab equipment
 TRIG funding supported the               Faculty report high levels of satisfaction



                                          45
  purchase of technical equipment to        with the current level of supply of lab
  expand or upgrade existing labs or to     equipment relative to their demand (i.e.,
  establish new ones.                       3.8 in a scale of 1 to 5).
 It also supported the acquisition of     Faculty report high levels of utilization of
  state-of-the-art teaching technology,     TRIG-financed equipment and materials
  including “smart? classrooms and          (i.e., 3.4 in a scale of 1 to 5) for their
  lecture halls.                            teaching activities as well as satisfaction
 It also supported the modernization       with the current level of supply relative to
  of communication networks and IT          their demand (i.e., 3.2 in a scale of 1 to 5).
  infrastructure.




                                          46
                Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A workshop was conducted to assess the implementation experience of the Teaching and
Research Innovation Grants (TRIG) Program took place on Sept. 28-29, 2012 in Phan
Thiết, Vietnam. Representatives from the World Bank, the Ministry of Education and
Training (MoET) as well as the twenty two universities that participated in the program
attended the workshop.

The Project Management Unit prepared a summary of the main conclusions arising from
the discussions, as follows:
                     TRIG Evaluation Workshop – Main Conclusions
 Project organization and management model
 The HEP II project management model, which includes a PMU at the MoET level
    and TMUs at the university level is considered to be effective.
 The HEP II management model has helped promote university autonomy and
    accountability as well as management capacity.
 The decision to staff the TMU with part-time or full-time personnel depends on the
    specific characteristics of each university. Both approaches are valid.
 Long-term staff development, including PhD. and Master’s training, should not be
    funded using project funds because of incompatible implementation times.
Infrastructure investment strategies
 Focalized investment in laboratory equipments helps promote the competitive
    strength of a university in specific research areas, while widespread investments
    across multiple departments help maximize access to new equipment.
 Ultimately, the specific investment strategy depends on the specific situation of each
    university. Both approaches are valid.
Publications
 There were no clear criteria defined for reporting TRIG-related publications. Thus,
    the data is not consistent across universities.
 It is suggested that, in the future, eligible articles should explicitly acknowledge
    TRIG funding.
Program innovation and accreditation:
 Quality improvement and assurance is a prerequisite for quality human resources
    training.
 Accreditation is a measure for quality assurance so there should be a clear distinction
    between university accreditation (implemented by MOET) and program accreditation
    (implemented by universities).
 The development of an accreditation system requires long-term implementation
    policies.
 International cooperation in training and research
 International cooperation contributes greatly to training and research. However, there
    is little control over the type of training, which is largely defined by international
    partners.
 Universities should make an effort to develop quality training and research programs,
    to build a strong reputation for Vietnam’s universities over the long term.



                                           47
  When assessing the impact of training and research activities, it is necessary to make
   a clear distinction between TRIG outcomes and the results coming from international
   cooperation activities.
Recommendations:
 The twenty two participating universities expressed strong interest in a potential
   follow-on operation—the HEP III.
 It was also suggested to continue to foster the existing relationship between the TRIG
   universities.




                                           48
       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

I. Component 1: Enhance capacity in policy development

Outcomes:
Following important activities have been conducted under Component 1: Higher
education governance, Higher education (HE) Master Plan, recommendations of
consultants for Higher education Law, policy in HE quality assurance and finance.

Assessment:
Component 1 has been implemented in difficult situation and slow speed due to complex
procedures in consultant selection; however, almost all tasks have been fulfilled.
Departments (Department of Higher Education, Planning and Finance, General
Department of Education Testing and Accreditation) in-charge-of sub-components have
closely cooperated with Project Management Unit (PMU) of the Second Higher
Education Project during implementation process.

Outputs:
• Governance: Many outcomes have been used during policy development process: HE
  Master Plan is considered a reference to develop HE Act; Survey on HE status;
  credit-based system.
• Finance: Public financing allocation; unit cost per HE student; support processing of
  disclosure information; survey on HE finance.
• Quality assurance: support development of quality accreditation; external evaluation
  of 20 universities; appraisal of internal assessment of 40 universities; develop quality
  accreditation culture; develop feedback instruments to evaluate quality of curriculum;
  survey on students’ employment.

II. Component 2: Improve training and research capacity for 22 Universities

2.1. Improve leadership competence of Universities:

•   Organized workshops delivered by international consultants on project development,
    management and implementation on improving training and research capacity in
    Higher Education sector with participation of leaders in nearly 40 public and private
    universities.
•   Organized leadership teams of 22 TRIG Universities for study tours and learn lessons
    on governance, quality assurance in countries with developed education status.

2.2. Enhance teaching and research capacity for 22 Universities

Outcomes:
Outcomes of Component 2.2 include: invested laboratories, doctoral and master training,
research themes, articles, innovation programs… All these outcomes are managed by
universities benefited from TRIG Grant.


                                           49
Assessment:
All universities participating in the Project are actively conducting the Project’s activities,
included:

Teaching innovation
• Newly develop and innovate curriculum, subjects, experiment test.
• Many programs and curricula have been accredited.

Staff training
• HEP2 contributes to enhance training capacity for universities thanks to adequate
   investment in high-level human resources: long-term training with diplomas granted
   (doctors, masters) and international cooperation in short-term training, study tours,
   exchanges and learn lessons in training.
• Via international cooperation programs, teachers in universities have established
   relationships in training and research, obtained scholarships.

Research capacity improvement
   • Many research themes have been conducted in all participating universities and
      many works have been published in international and local journals (particularly
      prestigious international journals listed in SCI, SCIE, SSCI and ISI.)
   • Many works have been applied in reality and transferred.
   • Many lecturers and students have improved their knowledge in research thanks to
      TRIG’s research themes.

Facility and equipment
   • Facility and equipment purchase in almost all participating universities have been
        basically completed. Laboratories, network, multi-media classrooms and libraries
        have been invested synchronously, contributing to improve quality of teaching
        and research. Universities in Group 2 are invested significantly to reduce the
        Universities’ difficulties in facilities and laboratories.
   • Equipments installed by HEP2 to Universities have been effectively used,
        improving quality of training and research. This contributes to: innovate contents
        and quality of curriculum, quality of research outcomes, innovate teaching and
        research methodology, contribute to heighten training and research status of
        universities locally and internationally, create chances for universities in training
        and research cooperation with overseas universities.

III. Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

Component 3: Project Management – Monitoring
  - Conducted well, assuring quality of work
  - Fulfilled monitoring tasks, supported Project Implementation in 22 universities
     and Component 1, 2.1 and 3.
  - Fulfilled tasks of independent evaluation of outcomes in Component 1, 2, 3
     according to forms set by World Bank and Ministry of Planning and Investment




                                              50
General assessment

•   HEP2 granted with ODA source by World Bank has contributed to a new
    development stage of many leading universities in Vietnam
•   HEP2’s self-autonomy mechanism has helped universities to have chances of
    improving their accountability, skills of project implementation, management and
    monitoring
•   Regular and effective guidelines of MOET Leaders
•   Close cooperation between HEP2 and MOET Departments to fully enhance capacity
    in policy development on HE Governance, Finance, Quality Assurance and support to
    complete Higher Education Development Policy Program (HEDPP) with its three
    single tranches
•   PMU’s supervision and consultants for activities conducted in 22 universities have
    been implemented tightly and regularly, facilitating HEP2 to complete in schedule
    with set quality and targets
•   World Bank’s close supervision also contributes to the Project Implementation to
    fully follow regulations and avoid mistakes during procurement and disbursement
    process.




                                          51
       Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N.A.




                                      52
                     Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank (2012), Putting Higher Education to Work: Skills and Research for Growth
  in East Asia, East Asia and Pacific Regional Report, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2010), Vietnam: Higher Education Development Policy Program – Second
  Operation, Program Document, Report No. 55039-VN, 29 October 2010, Washington,
  D.C.
World Bank (2009), Vietnam: Higher Education Development Policy Program – First
  Operation, Program Document, Report No. 47492-VN, 23 June 2009, Washington,
  D.C.
World Bank (2008-2012), Documents in Project’s Electronic File, including Credit
  Agreement, Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports, Project
  Financial Assessments, and Project Procurement Assessments; Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2008), Vietnam: Higher Education and Skills for Growth, Human
  Development Department, East Asia and Pacific Region, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2008), Vietnam’s First Higher Education Project, Implementation
  Completion and Results Report, Report No: ICR 561, 21 February 2008, Washington,
  D.C.
World Bank (2007), Vietnam’s Second Higher Education Project, Project Appraisal
  Report, Report No: 38399 - VN, 16 May 2007, Washington, D.C.



                      Meetings Conducted during ICR Mission
Ministry of Education and Training
Nguyen Duc Thuan, Director HEP II
Nguyen Van Kuu, Coordinator Component 1.1, Dept. of Higher Education
Nguyen Van Ang, Coordinator Component 1.2, Deputy Director of Department of
Planning and Finance
Pham Xuan Khanh, Coordinator Component 1.3, Deputy of Department of Education
Testing and Accreditation
Phung Quoc Tuan, Coordinator Component 2 (TRIG)
Pham Thi Thanh Hai, M&E Coordinator
Le Thi Kim Anh, Procurement Coordinator
Thai Thi Mai Huong, Administrative Coordinator
TRIG Universities
Lê Việt Dũng, Can Tho University
Plus feedback from nine presenters at the TRIG Evaluation Workshop
TRIG Independent Evaluation Team
Ms. Nguyen Thi Hai, Vietnam’s National Institute of Education Sciences
Mr. Ngo Vin Trung, Vietnam’s National Institute of Education Sciences
World Bank
Mai Thi Tang, TTL
Suhas Panderkar, Sr. Education Specialist




                                        53
                            102°                                               104°                                                           106°                                                            108°                                                          110°




                                   C H I N A
                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                          Hà
                                                                                                          Giang                              5               `
                                                                                                                                                        Cao Bang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C H I N A
                                                                 Lào Cai
                                                 Phong Tho

                                                     1                     3                                                     9          ` Can
                                                                                                                                           Bac
           22°                                                                                                   8                                                                                                                                                                 22°

                                                                                                                  Tuyên                                                    Lang
                                                                                                                                                                              ,
                                                                                              7                   Quang                                                     Son
                                                                                              Yên Bái                            13                                      10
                                                                                                                                       Thai Nguyen
                                                   2            Tay Bac U.
                                                                Tay
                                                                   Thuân Châu                                    Viêt Trì                        Thai Nguyen U.
                                                                                                                          12                                                                                    Co To
                                                                                                                        Vinh Yen                                                                            Vinh Thuc
                                                Diên Biên Phú              Són La                         11                                           Bác Giang                                      Cai Chien
                                                                                                                                                   Bác                   14        15
                                                                    6                                                        16                    Ninh
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cai Bau
                                                                                                                        HANOI                    17       19                             Ha Long          Co To
                                                                                                                                                      Haí
                                                                                                                        Hòa                  18       Dúóng         Hai Phong
                                                                                                                                                                                   Cat Ba
                                                                                                                        Bình          Hung Yen                   20
                                                                                                                      21       Hà Nam                 23
                                                                                                                                             22              Thái Bình        Hanoi National U.
                                                                                                                                                                              Hanoi U. of Agriculture
                                                                                                                                                      Nam
                                                                                                                                                      Dinh
                                                                                                                                                                              Hanoi U. of Education
                                                                                                                             Ninh Bình                                                             Trade
                                                                                                                                                                              Hanoi U. of Foreign Trade
                                                                                                                                                      25                      Hanoi U. of Medicine
           20°
                                                                                                                                             24                                                                                                                                    20°
                                                                                                                          26                                                              Technology
                                                                                                                                                                              Hanoi U. of Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                          Transport
                                                                                                                                                                              Hanoi U. of Transpor
                                                                                                                                                                                           ranspo r t & Communications
                                                                                                                                        Thanh Hóa
                                                                                                                                                                              National Economics U.
                        LAO PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                    Gulf
                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                                                                                          27
                                                                                                                                             Me
                                                                                                                                           Nghi Son                                   of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Hainan I.
                                                                                                                                                                                   To n k i n                                                                   (China)
                                                                                                                                      Vinh U.
                                                                                                                                      Vinh



                                                                                                                                                  ˜
                                                                                                                                             Hà Tinh
                                                                                                                                      28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18°
           18°
                                                                                    M
                                                                                     ek
                                                                                        on
                                                                                          g




                                                                                                                                                                         Dông Hói
                                                                                                                                                          29

                                                                                                                                                                                              Con Co
                                   THAILAND
                                                                                                                                                                                         Dông Hà

                                                                                                                                                                                  30
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Huê
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Huê U.

                                                                                                                                                                                                    31                            Danang U.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   32                                                              16°
           16°                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dà Nang
                                               VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                                             Cham


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tam Ky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ly Son
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Re

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Quàng Ngai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           34

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  35
                          102°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kon Tum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    37
                                             VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14°

                        HIGHER EDUCATION
                                                                                                                           14°                                                                                          Play Cu                                 Quy Nhon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Xanh
                                    MAJOR PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES

                                    UNIVERSITIES IN DISADVANTAGED REGIONS                                                                                                                                                                                     38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tuy Hòa

                                                 PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                           CAMBODIA                                                                     39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Buôn Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Thuôt
                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tay Nguyen U.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tay
                                                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gom

                                                 INTERNATIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         41
                                                                                                                                                                                                             40                                                     Nha Trang
                                                   BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tre
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gia Nghia
                                                                                                                           12°                                                                                                   Dà Lat                                            12°
            PROVINCES:                                                                                                                                                              42
             1   Lai Chau           33   Quang Nam                                                                                                                         Dông                                             43                           44
             2   Dien Bien          34   Quang Ngai                                                                                                                         Xoái
                                                                                                                 Mek                                                                                                                                          Phan Rang-
             3   Lao Cai            35   Kon Tum                                                                    o                                                                                                                                         Tháp Chàm
             4   Ha Giang           36   Gia Lai                                                                                                       45
                                                                                                                      ng




             5   Cao Bang           37   Binh Dinh                                                                                                                                           47
                                                                                                                                                  Tây Ninh                 46
             6   Son La             38   Phu Yen                                                                                                                           Thu Dãu
             7   Yen Bai                 Dak Lak                                                                                                                             Môt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   48
                                    39
                                                                                                                                                                                 Biên Hòa                                        Phan Thiêt
             8   Tuyen Quang        40   Dak Nong                                                                                                                        49
             9   Bac Kan            41   Khanh Hoa                                                                                                                                      HCMC                     National U.
            10   Lang Son           42   Binh Phuoc                                                                              53                           51       Ho Chi Minh City HCMC                     U. of Economics
                                                                                                                                      Dong Thap
            11   Phu Tho            43   Lam Dong                                                                                     Educ. U.                                     50 HCMC                       U. of Education
                                                                                                                 55                                              Tan An                 HCMC                                      Pharmacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pha r macy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 U. of Medicine & Phar
            12   Vinh Phuc          44   Ninh Thuan                                                                                    Cao Lanh         52
                                                                                                          Long Xuyên                                               My˜ Tho
            13   Thai Nguyen        45   Tay Ninh                                                                                                                                             ˜ Tàu
                                                                                                                                                                                            Vung
                                                                                                    An Giang U.                                 ˜ Long
                                                                                                                                              Vinh                    ,
            14   Bac Giang          46   Binh Duong                                                                                                                 Bên Tre
                                                                    Phu
            15   Quang Ninh         47   Dong Nai                   Quoc                                                     59                   56                  54
                                                                                        Nghe          Rach Giá                       Cân                                                                                                                                           10°
            16
           10°   Ha Noi             48   Binh Thuan          10°                                                                                  Cân Tho U.                                                                                                  Hai
                                                                                                    Tre                              Tho
            17   Bac Ninh           49   Ho Chi Minh City                                                            58                                                  Tra Vinh U.
                                                                                                                                                                         Tra
                                                                                                                                      60                Trá Vinh
            18   Hung Yen           50   Ba Ria-Vung Tau                                      Rai
                                                                                                                               Vi Thanh                           57       MEKONG DELTA
            19   Hai Duong          51   Long An                               Nam Du
            20   Hai Phong        Gulf
                                    52   Tien Giang                                                                                         61        Sóc Trang
            21   Hoa Binh           53   Dong Thap                                                                                                                                                           0     25       50      75     100     125    150 Kilometers
            22   Ha Nam             54   Ben Tre                                                                            62
                                                                Tho Chu                                                        Bac Liêu
            23   Thai Binh          55   An Giang                                                       Cà Mau
            24   Ninh Binh         of
                                    56   Vinh Long                                                                                                                                                            0             25            50             75            100 Miles
            25   Nam Dinh           57   Tra Vinh                                                                63
            26   Thanh Hoa          58   Kien Giang
            27   Nghe An                 Can Tho                                                                                                              Con Dau
            28   Ha Tinh
                             Thailand
                                    59
                                    60   Hau Giang                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 35262R




            29   Quang Binh              Soc Trang                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                    61
                                                                                                                                                                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
            30   Quang Tri          62   Bac Lieu                                                         Khoai                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
MAY 2013




            31   Thua Thien Hue     63   Ca Mau                                                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
            32   Da Nang 102°                                                  104°                                                              106°                                                                108°
