Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19363-E
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR $18.8 M
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT REFORM
June 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 31,1999)
Currency Unit = Bolivar (B)
596.37 B = US$1
US$1 = 596.37 B
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBRENIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS-Country Assistance Strategy
IDB-Inter-American Development Bank
MOP-Memorandum of the President
QAG-Quality Assurance Group
QET-Quality Enhancement Team
PCU-Project Coordinating Unit
GDP-Gross Domestic Product
ICB-International Competitive Bidding
MOF-Ministry of Finance
NBF-Not Bank Financed
NCB-National Competitive Bidding
PIP-Project Implementation Plan
SOE-Statement of Expenditures
OP-Operational Manual
PMR-Project Management Report
TAL-Technical Assistance Loan
TOR-Terms of Reference
UNDP-United Nations Development Programme
SIGECOF-Sistema Integrado de Gesti6n y Control de las Finanzas Publicas
(Integrated System of Financial Management and Control of Public Finance)
CORDIPLAN- Oficina Central de Coordinaci6n y Planificacion
(Central Office for Coordination and Planning)
SIADE-Sistema Integrado de Administraci6n de la Deuda Puiblica
(Integrated System of Public Debt Administration)
MDB-Multilateral Development Bank
Regional Vice President: S.J. Burki
Country Manager/Director: A. Solimano
Sector Manager/Director: G. Perry
Team Leader: A. Martin del Campo



Venezuela
Public Expenditure Management Reform Project
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective .............................................................i1
2. Key performance indicators ..............................................................I
B Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........1
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................. 2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................4
C Project Description Summary
1. Project components ...................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...................8...................8
3. Benefits and target population ..........8........................................8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ....................................................                  8
D Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...............................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ......... 9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...................................................... 10
4. Indications of borroNver commitment and ownership .......................................1............I 1
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .............................................................   11
E Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic ............................................................. 11
2. Financial .............................................................                                            11
3. Technical .............................................................                                            13
4. Institutional .............................................................                                        13
5. Social .............................................................                                               14
6. Environmental assessment .............................................................                             14
7. Participatory approach .............................................................                               14
F Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability .............................................................                                       14
2. Critical Risks .............................................................. I5
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .............................................................                       16
G Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions ............................................................. 16
2. Other ............................................................. 16
H Readiness for Implementation                                                                                                   16
I Compliance with Bank Policies                                                                                                  16
Annexes
Annex 1.              Project Design Summary
Annex 2.              Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.              Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.              Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary!
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.              Financial Summary
Annex 6.              Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements



Table A.        Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.       Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.        Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.       Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance



Venezuela
Public Expenditure Management Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LCC4C
Date: Junio, 1999                         Team Leader: Antonio Martin del Campo
Country Manager/Director: Andres Solimano  Sector Manager/Director: Guillermo Perry
Project ID: 57601                         Sector: Public Sector
Lending Instrument: TAL                   Theme(s): Public Sector Management
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [    Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data
[XI Loan      [ I Credit     [I Grant       [  Guarantee     [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: EUR $ 18.8 M (US$20 M Equivalent)
Proposed        [] To be        [  Multicurrency    [X] Single currency
terms:              defined
[1 Standard         [] Fixed           [X] LIBOR-based
Variable
Grace period (years):    5.
Years to maturity:       15
Commitment fee:         .75%
Front-end fee on Bank 1.0%
loan:
Financing pian'     -         To bedfined
-ource.                           Loca-          Foreign        Total
Government                                           US$4.0 M                        US$4.OM
IBRD                                                 US$9.0 M        US$11.0 M     (US$20.OM
equivalent)
EUR $18.8M
Total:                                              US$13.OM          US$1 .OM      US$24.OM
Borrower: Republic of Venezuela
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
'Ni ' 6'   " O          'W        .'1 v
Annual                    5.23       6.53       3.23      2.80     2.2
Cumulative               5.23       11.76     14.99       17.8     20.0
Project implementation period: 4.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: September 1999         Expected closing date: June 30,2004
Implementing agency: Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito PuTblico)
Contact person: Belinda Perez
Address: Proyecto SIGECOF. Av. Urdaneta. Esq. Carmelitas. Edif. Ramia. Piso 7. Caracas 1010.
Venezuela
Tel: 011-58-2-802-1723        Fax: 011-58-2-802-1730/31  E-mail: belperez('.aguaicaipuro.mh. ov.ve



I
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's mechanisms of monitoring and control of public
resources and to improve efficiency and accountability in the management of the Borrower's public finances. The
project will continue its support to develop an integrated financial management strategy across government levels
by extending the satisfactory experience of the financial management component of the Pre-investment and
Institutional Development Loan (IBRD-Ln. 3225).  This component created the legal, administrative, and
infrastructure bases to improve public finance management in Venezuela's Ministry of Finance. The proposed new
project would help the Government of Venezuela improve its public finance administration and fiscal discipline by
providing accurate, real-time information in the management of human, financial, and non-financial public
resources. The project would dramatically modernize public finance methods and processes, link central agencies
and sub-national governments to an information network, and provide the human and technical capacitv needed to
analyze financial information and better allocate resources. In addition, national budget programming and
execution should improve, as more accurate information will allow decision-makers to plan for the use of public
resources. Last, the project should have significant anti-corruption outcomes by promoting transparency in the
allocation of public resources.
The project consists of the following components: Deconcentration' and Decentralization of SIGECOF; Registry,
Administration and Control of National Non-financial Assets; a Human Resource Financial Management and
Control; Rationalization and Planning of Public Expenditure; Reform  and Institutional Development, and Project
Management.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress in achieving the development objective will be assessed against the following key performance indicators:
*  Increased cost-effectiveness of selected public agencies' operational programs. With the implementation of
automated processes, the demand for low-and medium-skill staff, whose main task is inputting data and re-
transcribing documents, will be lower.
•  Fiscal savings resulting from streamlined budgets in central, decentralized, and deconcentrated agencies. These
include lower accruing interest on overdue payments, by having complete and accurate registry of public debt
and its service. This system will increase accountability on actual expenditures and will allow the Treasury to
attain a more efficient cash flow management.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16471 VE                            Date of latest CAS discussion: May 6, 1997
This project will contribute to the Country Assistance Strategy's (CAS) goal of 'modernizing the public sector.' The
project's objective is to help the Government design and implement a comprehensive and integrated strategy to
manage and control public resources. This strategy would enhance the capacity and productivity levels of the MOF,
" Deconcentration refers to those entities belonging to the central government that are physically (geographically) dispersed.
Deconcentrated entities do not have the ability to raise funds from other sources in contrast to decentralized entities, which do have
greater autonomy in normative and financial regulations. In this document, subnational governments are considered decentralized
entities. In Venezuela "decentralized entities" do not include states that are considered regional entities with decentralized
functions.



2
equip the MOF with the tools necessary to play the lead role in promoting efficient and responsive management of
public resources. At both the national and subnational levels, those agencies fully implementing the strategy also
will benefit from increased capacity and productivity.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues:
Venezuela's economy is highly dependent on petroleum revenues, which means that the public sector is strongly
affected by oil prices, as the Government is the exclusive owner of PDVSA (Venezuela's national oil company). A
recent IMF Report2 illustrates the magnitude of the relation between public activity and oil production in the
country: a price decline of US$0.50 per oil barrel reduces public sector revenues by approximately 0.6 percent of
GDP (at the current exchange rate). This is a compelling rationale to seek and develop other sources of revenue.
However, instead of pursuing alternatives, the Government has adjusted its fiscal accounts by contracting new
external debt and persistently devaluating the Bolivar. The recently created Macroeconomic Stabilization Fund
should help buffer external shocks and lower the risk of fiscal instability.
Recurrent oil shocks and public debt also have led to structural and chronic distortions in Venezuela's public sector.
Venezuela's poor fiscal performance is partly a consequence of an antiquated public financial management system,
inadequate human resources and personnel management policies, and a weak tax administration. Public finances
are characterized by structural deficiencies such as: (i) rigidities in the national budget; (ii) public resource cycles
that increase the effect of external shocks; and (iii) an accumulation of public deficits over nearly three decades
(1970-96).
Government strategy
The fiscal management strategy pursued by the current Administration is based on compensating for the shortfall of
oil revenues, and eschewing devaluation mechanisms or incurring debt to generate emergency fiscal resources.
Under this strategy, the national budget increasingly would depend on non-oil tax revenues. while public
expenditures would deploy social capital investment more effectively. The strategy would promote fiscal savings
by: (i) increasing the efficiency on the delivery of public services; (ii) providing these services at reasonable prices;
and (iii) improving public sector human resources.
The Integrated System of Financial Management and Control of Pubtic Finances (SIGECOF) comprises four basic
types of reforms to support the Government's strategy: (i) normative, including legal and policv reforns; (ii)
institutional, including organizational and bureaucratic culture changes; (iii) managerial, involving the
modernization of methods and procedures of each management function; and (iv) instrumental, focusing on the
development of related infornation systems and complementary tools.
Within this framework, the SIGECOF would facilitate integration of the government's core financial administration
systems, specifically: budget, accounting, public debt, treasury, and internal control; personnel expenditure
management, control and management of non-financial assets, and planning and evaluation of public expenditure
through results. The objective is improved oversight of public resource management through opportune and reliable
financial and physical output information on which to base budgetary decision-making.
Implementation of SIGECOF would occur in three interrelated stages. The first, already elapsed, include (1) the
design of new procedures, (2) the required legal framework for full implementation, and (3) the development of
new financial management systems. The second concentrates on strategy implementation in all central government
units as well as the internal monitoring unit of the executive power. The third is the implementation of the new
management systems in the decentralized governmental units and all participating sub-national governments (states
2 IMF Staff Country Report No. 98/117. Washington, D. C. October 1998.



3
and their municipalities). The proposed Public Expenditure Management Reform Project will implement stages two
and three by consolidating and expanding reforms initiated in stage one.
Phase one of the SIGECOF strategy (SIGECOF-I) was supported by a component of the Pre-Investment and
Institutional Development (PIID) project (Loan 3225- VE). Public expenditure and internal fiscal controls were
strengthened and key financial processes were rationalized under the PID. This first phase provided the basis for
improved public expenditure management and effective internal fiscal controls now in place, and led to the creation
of a new entity for the internal control and accounting of the executive power, the Superintendencia iNacional de
Control Interno y Contabilidad Pzublica (SUNACIC). This entity is now responsible for accounting norms and
regulations to provide consistency in the registration of all public financial transactions. With the creation of
SUNACIC, the ex-ante controls (control previo) exerted by the Comptroller General's Office (Contraloria General
de la Reptiblica) were eliminated. SIGECOF-I also prepared the framework for related institutional reforms that
will facilitate the proposed project. Moreover, a study for the restructuring of the Ministry of Finance will support
stages two and three that will also involve implementation within the decentralized administration and at the sub-
national governments level.
During the course of PIID implementation, areas for further reform were identified. This led to the expansion of the
SIGECOF strategy, which is now a Government priority. Strengthening financial management is now considered
essential to the attainment of national economic goals and poverty alleviation objectives.
To date, SIGECOF concentrated on developing the financial management systems of MOF rector agencies (i.e., the
development of a central SIGECOF). The new project supports the application of SIGECOF to all organizational
elements of the Government structure, and focuses on all management systems needed to strengthen expenditure
planning, execution and evaluation. The project will encompass the: (i) decentralization and deconcentration of
SIGECOF to all centralized government units, based on fiscal importance, to the decentralized National Public
Administration, and to those state governments and municipalities willing to adopt it; (ii) development and
implementation of a management and control system for nonfinancial assets to attain an increasingly strategic and
comprehensive management of public resources; (iii) development and implementation of a Human Resource
Financial Management and Control System; (iv) development and implementation of a methodology and systems of
financial and physical evaluation to support rationalization and planning of public expenditure; and (v) policy and
institutional reform studies to provide unified policy platforms and support for introducing further reforms in the
budgetary process.
Proposed Law for an Integrated System of Mlanagement and Control of Public Finances. To support the above
strategy, on February 23, 1995, the Government enacted a Presidential Decree (No. 570) establishing SIGECOF as
the mechanism for the normative framework and operative decentralization of Venezuela's public finances.
Approval of this Decree has helped build institutional receptiveness to promote SIGECOF goals. The draft Public
Finance Management and Control Law3 supports the comprehensive integration of all public finance
responsibilities. It was presented by the new Administration to the National Congress through an umbrella
"Enabling Law."4. This law would transfer authority over major legal reforms to the Executive, thus radically
changing existing legal constraints to developing a modern public management system. It was not initially
approved by "exceptional" means; hence, approval of the draft SIGECOF law will now be sought through routine
congressional channels.
If approved, the new legal framework for public finances, i.e., the SIGECOF law, will eliminate the multiplicity of
laws that has made it difficult to modify the public finance legal framework in Venezuela. Of particular importance
is that the proposed law would: (a) establish the legal basis for integrating financial management subsystems
(budgeting, accounting, treasury, public credit and internal control) under an arrangement that promotes interaction
and interdependency (i.e., autonomous functions with common goals); (b) eliminate the overlap of existing laws
and avoid extensive administrative procedures; (c) establish a consistent, integrated accounting system across
Ley Organica del Sistema Integrado de Gestion y Control Intemo de las Finanzas Publicas.
4Ley Habilitante.



4
government units5; (d) sanction a budgetary policy that separates approval of the general budget from consideration
of its allocation and execution; (e) institutionalize the "single-account" approach in the National Treasury, thus
reducing the discretion to use "cash advances"; and (f) limit congressional management of public resources with a
commensurate increase in public management responsibility at the national level6. While the passage of the
proposed law would provide the ideal basis for the intended reforms, SIGECOF could advance, even in the absence
of the proposed law.'
Modifications to Existing Laws: Reglamentos I and 2 of the Ley Organica del Regimen Presupuestario were
modified to facilitate adoption of initial financial management system reforms as well as to prepare the ground for
future full implementation of SIGECOF. The accounting system adopted in the SIGECOF strategy recently was
approved by Venezuela's Comptroller General (March 1999) boosting the chances for successful implementation of
the proposed project.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues
The problems presented by the current management of public resources include: (i) Significant deviations between
the budget approved by Congress and the one executed because of a lack of a proper evaluation of expenditure by
results and due to horizontal transfers in the allotmnent level between the subsections of deconcentrated units; (ii)
overly-centralized procedures due to a high degree of co-administration between the executive and congress; (iii)
sharply declines in investment spending resulting from oil shocks (iv) lack of an effective internal control, as
normally associated with modem accounting practices; iv) weak incentive mechanisms for promoting and
enhancing human resources within the public sector; (vi) no system of control and management of the Nation's non-
financial assets; and (vii) institutional arrangements between the executive, the sub-national governments, and the
congress that inhibit the effective management of public resources. In addition, the management of public resources
is also characterized by: (viii) a dispersion of payments and structural impediments to implementing a single-
account approach; (ix) inability to know precisely the availability of funds in all budget executing agencies; (x)
fiscal management based on formal budget approval instead of actual availability of funds; and (xi) numerous "cash
advances" that lead to the emission of government bonds to finance the cash flow.
The proposed Public Expenditure Management Reform project would support the Government's strategy to broaden
its public resources management modernization program. The project would foster the deepening and consolidation
of reforms in accounting practices and internal control, public debt management, social capital investment,
evaluation and control of national non-financial assets, and the improvement of personnel expenditure management
in the public sector. The project also would support the rapid expansion and consolidation of the SIGECOF
strategy in both centralized and decentralized public administrations.
The goal of the SIGECOF strategy is to improve the levels of efficiency, transparency and accountability in the
management of public finances. This will be done by use of accurate and uniform information-i.e. user-customized
information generated in databases--at all decision-making levels, as well as by ensuring national property rights
and combating corruption through transparency in public financial management. Specifically, the new project
establishes SIGECOF's new management systems and procedures in the basic units of the central administration,
decentralized administrations, and state government and municipalities willing to participate. Equally important is
the development of complementary management systems and practices to further the comprehensive management
and control of public resources.
5 The General Comptroller's Office oversees the accounting systems of subnational governments (States and Municipalities)
6 Congress does not have the ability to co-manage the resources of descentralized or subnational levels.
7This could be done by merging several existing laws related to public financial management, which currently function independently
of each other. Relevant laws currently not integrated are:Ley Organica del Regimen Presupuestario, Ley Organica del Credito
Publico, Ley Organica de Hacienda Publica Nacional y, parcialmente la Ley Organica de la Contraloria General de la Repuiblica.



5
By enabling the Government to systematically collect financial information, track public resource allocation, and
measure public action performance, services can be rendered more reliably and effectively. This productive use of
information should lead to a continuous improvement of processes, promote institLtional change, and ultimately
allow the government to press forward with its policy objectives on a more solid footing. In essence, the project
supports improved management and allocation of existing resources by shifting from an inefficient, highly
centralized system to one that comprises all levels of government in a consistent and interrelated public finance
management and control practice.
Strategic choices
The best solution for the National Treasury system consists of modernizing its procedures instead of the original
proposal to create a Treasury Bank (i.e. to create a specific banking institution to serve as the National Govemment
Treasury) . The system within the National Treasury would be strengthened by technological upgrades, such as
optical scanning of documents and legally-approved electronic support for the accounting registry. The goal of this
restructuring is to replace the BCV's current cashier function by creating strong managerial and technical capacity.
The Treasury thus would be better able to handle fund volatility through tools such as financial programming using
a single account, and banking conciliation.
The project would develop a coordinated strategy with selected agencies in the areas of human resource financial
management and non-financial assets evaluation and inventory. Subsequent agency strategies would be integrated
and harmnonized with the main SIGECOF strategy. Accordingly, the project would support the development and
implementation of a basic Human Resource Financial Management and Control System in local SIGECOFs that
will be used by the entities to formulate the personnel payroll. These data would then be transferred to the central
SIGECOF. In addition, an aggregate human resource financial management system would be implemented in the
central administration.
The proposed project would develop efficient non-financial asset management policies and regulations for the
implementation of a transparent registry to bring increased accountability. Since unclaimed assets in Venezuela
often remain in legal limbo for a prolonged period-thereby increasing the risk of fraud and corruption in the public
sector-the project would develop a system for the identification, control, and management of the Nation's non-
financial assets. Once regularized, the government can lease, dispose of, or sell these assets --actions that would
undoubtedly benefit the nation's balance sheet as well as increase overall accountability. Under this project, the
inventory of MOF's non-financial assets would be carried out on a pilot basis, to be later replicated in other
agencies. Real estate assets, due to their large unit value, would be the primary target of this inventory, and financial
data on assets would be maintained down to the level important to decision-making.
A strategic alternative to the original proposal of implementing SIGECOF in three stages is the option of carrying
out the second and third stages concurrently (not sequential)8. The increased interest of sub-national governments
and autonomous public enterprises has led to reconsidering the possibility. This option responds to the interest
expressed by, and pressures from sub-national governments to participate in the program. The decentralized
administrations can choose whether or not to participate in the strategy given their autonomous status.
Anti-corruption impact: Good financial systems are powerful instruments for preventing, discovering, and
sanctioning fraud and corruption. Such systems designate clear responsibility for managing resources and reveal
improper actions and unauthorized expenditures. Inoperative control systems permit wide-scale fraud, and in many
cases auditing becomes impossible. A successful and comprehensive reform of public financial management
systems seeks to produce, by definition, a decrease in fraudulent activities. Each component of the proposed new
project represents an important share of the total impact on the elimination of corrupt practices. For instance, the
8 The second phase of SIGECOF constitutes the extension of the strategy to the deconcentrated units of the central administration,
while the third phase corresponds to the promotion and implementation of the strategy in the decentralized administration.



6
development of criteria for the management of non-financial assets and implementation of a system for its registry,
management, and control is a solid basis for increased accountability in the public sector. The Human Resource
r niiaeia i ivianageinmnt anc i AomLroi .aysLem is intenciea to rauionaiize tne numoer oI puioc employees as wsell as the
payroll of the national treasury. This project is expected to curtail corrupt financial practices.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
1. Project components:
1.1 Deconcentration and Decentralization of SIGECOF. This component would support the implementation of
the strategy developed in the first phase of SIGECOF at 160 units belonging to the central public administration
responsible for budget execution and within the decentralized public administration. It will integrate the existing
registry and control system of public debt with the central accounting system of SIGECOF and develop a uniform
system of management and control of projects financed by multilateral institutions. The component would also
assist the development of a new management system for the National Treasury that involves automation of its
procedures. Within this component, a public finance data-warehouse for MOF will be designed.
Sector       Indicative Costs     % of Total      Bank-fnancing (US$M)   % of Bank-financing
(USsM)                                                ._
Policy/         _l                                             7.1         35%
institution building             l
1.2 Registry, Administration, and Control of National Non-financial Assets. This component would support a
strategy that includes the creation of a set of policies and legal and regulatory framework for non-financial asset
management and the development and implementation of a system of registry, management, and control to create an
efficient and rational management of these assets. According to the current legislation, it is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Finance to determine policies and regulations for the management of assets of governmental agencies,
in addition to the oversight of MOF's own assets. 9. A methodology to keep inventorial records of GOV's real estate
and to carry out the initial stages of an inventory of MOF's real estate will be developed.
Sector        Indicative Costs     % of Total      Bank-financing (USSM)  % of Bank-financin,
(USSM)           Project Cost
Policy/         0.2                      0.83%                 4.3          21.5%
institution building
1.3 Human Resource Financial Management and Control. This component aims to strengthen the
capacity of (a) the central government to monitor and enforce financial controls of human resources, and (b)
the Ministry of Finance to allocate adequate budgetary resources to meet objectives and targets. The Project
would develop a Human Resource Financial Management and Control System within SIGECOF that would
be used to produce each entity's payroll and maintain data on personnel employment history, which would
interface with the central SIGECOF. This would improve the execution of personnel expenditures and
provide an adequate information base for human resource expenditure policies.
Sector       Indicative Costs     % of Total      Bank-financing (USSM)  % of Bank-financing
(US$E1)_
Policy/          0.2                     0.83%                 2.7          13.5%
institution building
1.4 Planning and Rationalization of Public Expenditure. This component would support the development
and application of a complete set of performance indicators to correlate the -outcomes of the budgetary
execution process to the goals previously set up in the planning phase of the budget and to evaluate the cost-
9 It must be noted that only those assets not previously assigned to any other public entity are under MOF's oversight.



7
effectiveness of public programs. These performance indicators, in turn, should give informational feedback
for the elaboration of multiyear budgets with a well-defined plan for targeting public expenditure priorities.
Sector          Indicative Costs      % of Total       Bank-financing (USSM)   % of Bank-financing
l      (USSb1)         Project Cost (24hI)                              (20M)
Policy/           0.3                        1.25%                  .5           2.5%
Institution building
1.5 Institutional Development and Reform. This component would support the institutional strengthening
and reform of the Ministry of Finance. The component would also endorse studies for reform of the
institutional framework related to public finance processes. The reform would target: structural rigidities in
the budgetary process, lack of a mid-term fiscal program and intergovernmental relations (i.e., among
OCEPRE-MH-CORDIPLAN).
Sector      Indicative Costs (USSM    % of Total       Bank-financing USSM)    % of Bank-financin  |
Policy/        -                              --                    .8           4%
Institution
building
1.6 Project Management. This component would support project management and coordination, training and
technical computer services advice to support SIGECOF implementation. Based at the Finance Ministry, the
PCU would be in charge of coordinating the technical and administrative execution -including legal advice--of
the project by elaborating reports required by the agencies involved in the project. This component will also
develop the systems for each component.
Sector      Indicative Costs (SSMI)    % of Total       Bank-financing (USSM)   % of Bank-financin
Policy/        3.3                           13.75%                4.4           22%
institution
building
Total Project Costs
Indicadve Costs      % of Total       Bank-financing      % of Bank-
(USSMI)                              (USSM)            financing
Total Project Costs         23.8M                    100%              19.8M          83.3%
Front-end fee               0.2                                          0.2
(Capitalized)
Total financing             24 M                                        20M*          100%
* Total Bank Financing: EUR 18.8 million (US$ 20.0 million equivalent)



8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
*   Modernization of the National Treasury system.
*  The creation of a Human Resource Financial Management and Control system that would help rationalize
public employment and improve the quality of public sector personnel.
*   The creation of an internal office at the Ministry of Finance for the control and management of the Nation's
non-financial assets.
*   Rationalizing public expenditures using a performance-based system that will lead to more effective
targeting of Venezuela's social and environmental needs.
*   Studies and policies for the definition of optimal responsibilities and mobilization of local resources within
the intergovernmental structure between the central and sub-nationals governments.
(For a detailed description see section B.3 above)
3. Benefits and target population:
The successful implementation of the project should produce the following benefits: (i) efficient financial
management and effective control and monitoring by the central administration and the participating decentralized
administrations entities and subnational governments; (ii) more equitable resource allocation; and (iii) improved
accountability in the management, investment, and monitoring of public resources. The beneficiaries will be the
participating government agencies as well as Venezuelan citizens.
Target population: central government entities and decentralized public administration, i.e., sub-national
governments and autonomous public enterprises.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Four and a half years, from July 1999 to June 30, 2004.
Executing agencies: (i) Project Unit (SIGECOF) at the Ministry of Finance will carry out the design,
development, and implementation of all project components and sub-components; and will be in charge of
establishing the links for further coordination with other agencies (e.g. OCP, CORDIPLAN, OCEPRE), when
required, for the effective achievement of a component outputs.
Project coordination: The project will be coordinated by the PCU at the Ministry of Finance (see Annex 1). The
previous experience of the members of the PCU will prove invaluable to the new project. The PCU will have a
project director and Venezuelan professionals assigned to oversee central project activities. Each agency
implementing the strategy would have management teams to oversee its implementation. The PCU would
provide more direct support to teams in smaller agencies and to weaker sub-national governments.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: A LAC FMS carried out the required project
financial management assessment, concluding that the PCU has the capacity to observe Bank standards in this
regard during project implementation. The FMS conclusion is supported by the PCU's recognized capacity to
manage the project together with its commitment to carry out the attached time-bound action plan (See Annex 6).
The main elements of this action plan follow the PCU's decision to avail themselves to PM based disbursements.
This disbursement mode would make Loan resources available in advance quarterly, on the basis of the cash
projections presented by project management in the corresponding PMR.



9
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Monitoring of project execution will be undertaken by the PCU. The
Bank will supervise the monitoring of project implementation through periodic supervision missions. The PCU
will provide the Bank with an annual work plan no later than June 30 of the preceding year starting in 1999.
Annual reviews of the project will be carried out no later than July 31 of each year, starting July 31, 2000. A mid-
term review would be conducted by July 31, 2001 to assess progress in meeting agreed targets, review the impact
of the implementation of SIGECOF in the public sector performance'0 and to identify additional technical support
as needed.
Procurement: The Government has decided to hire UNDP to manage the administrative and financial
responsibilities under the project. The estimated fee is about $US600,000 which will be paid out of local
counterpart funds. The Bank concurs with this approach on an exceptional basis provided that the TORs for the
UNDP will include developing an action plan to strengthen the financial and procurement capacity of the
implementing agency. UNDP should also agree to hire competent and experienced procurement staff. The Bank
will ensure of UNDP's personnel knowledge of the Procurement Guidelines; particularly regarding the hiring of
consultants, via a refresher course to be held in Caracas no later than July 1999. For the reason of UNDP
involvement, the RPA on an exceptional basis has waived carrying out the capacity assessment of the
implementing agency (See Annex 6 for a detailed description of procurement arrangements).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The creation of a Treasury Bank. This proposal was rejected because the design of a National Treasury system
would also incorporate the functions of such a bank. Hence, the system would function more effectively without
redundancies in its operations.
The implementation of SIGECOF in two different but consecutive phases. This proposal was rejected because of
interest and pressure from sub-nationals governments to participate in SIGECOF. The idea is to capture the
momentum created by the reform and to incorporate as many entities as possible at one time to promptly
consolidate the management and control of public resources.
The implementation of the SIGECOF strategy in all central administration units (545). This proposal was rejected
because 160 deconcentrated units represent 90% of the deconcentrated administration budget. To achieve an
extra 5% of the total deconcentrated administration budget, the strategy would need to be extended to over 200
more units. As a consequence, the strategy will be installed in 160 operational units of the central administration,
while the remaining units will report to the larger units.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
1010



10
t  a/<  <_ _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _             n y )   i
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)      Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed                      TAL for Pre-investment           S                 S
and Institutional
Institutional development          Development (PIID
Ln.3225-VE under
implementation)
Public sector modemization and     Public Sector                    S                  S
decentralization project           Modernization and
Decentralization Project
(TAL VE-PA41807)
Infrastructure in low income slum  Low Income Barrios I             S                  S
(Ln. 3495-VE)
Other development agencies         Public Finance                N/A                 N/A
Strengthening of
Venezuelan States (IDB)
Financial management moderization   PROINSOL (IDB)               N/A                 N/A
(sub-national govermnents)                                                     I _
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The lessons learned from other public sector projects (especially from the development and implementation of
SIGECOF's first stage) are the following:
(i) Incentives. Merely adopting a new set of fonnal rules is not sufficient to change an institutional culture and
incentive structure based on informality. Public officials of participating government agencies and subnational
governments must be committed to using the SIGECOF strategy; otherwise, projects too focused in MOE run the
risk of being regarded as only serving the Ministry's special needs. Officials must "buy-in" to the program so
they are willing not only to learn how to use the strategy but to put it into practice.
To foster adherence to new rules of the game, participants should perceive the envisaged changes as a way to
make their jobs simpler, yet more efficient and effective". The project anticipates some early results in the form
of small interim improvements, costing less than the procurement limit in a few selected deconcentrated and
decentralized units;
(ii) Ownership. The Borrower's sense of commitment and ownership of the overall reform is usually achieved
through extensive and deep dialogue with the authorities in all aspects of project design and implementation;
(iii) Usefulness. With the infrastructure in place, large amounts of financial information will be produced and the
project's structured training would teach users how to make information productive in their management practice.
Phased training would involve public officials incrementally, overcome potential reticence, and assist them in
learning how to use the new tools. GOV has already begun to use this training by acquainting managers and
technicians with initial versions of the strategy as well as with basic concepts of financial management;
'l Different client groups would be identified and a structure of incentives designed on the basis of (a) the greater autonomy in day-to-
day operations as information is no longer centralized; and (b) unifornity and consistency that brings greater technical credibility.



11
(iv) Consensus building. Creating a consensus about project implementation costs and benefits would be sought.
For the achievement of this consensus, the project would be presented to a wide audience of senior Executive
Branch and congressional leaders, civil society, and key staff within the public administration;
(v) Public access to information. For the sake of consensus, increased transparency and accountability, the project
would make an effort to publicize the availability of information produced by the systems. Criteria should be
established so as to determnine levels of access of different groups to the information, including the legislature,
other civil servants, the general public, and other public groups. Informing these groups about the availability of
the information will require the use of social communication campaigns and other informational techniques;
(vi) PCU administrative capacity. In the case of lessons learned from other Venezuelan operations, the technical
capacity of the PCU as well as close supervision of project operations is essential to attain goals on time and with
high quality. The project will benefit from the executing unit of this project, which is currently implementing
SIGECOF satisfactorily, and would be the PCU at the Ministry of Finance for the Public Finance Reform project.
However, potential weak institutional capacity in the decentralized and deconcentrated units adopting the strategy
will be carefully followed and training will be directed at these units;
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The strength of the Government commitment to improve financial management is shown by: (i) the rapid and
satisfactory implementation of SIGECOF I: (ii) the proposed plan of integrating SIGECOF's phase H
(deconcentration) and phase III (decentralization) in one phase in order to accelerate the assistance and
implementation of the strategy at the sub-national level and within autonomous entities; (iii) enactment of the
Presidential Decree No 570 (02-23-95), which establishes the SIGECOF system  as the main tool for
implementing the public financial management reform; (iv) submission to Congress of the SIGECOF draft law on
financial management prepared by the project; and (v) an explicit request from the Government to the Bank to
expedite the processing of the proposed loan .
5. Value-added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's substantial experience in the Region would supply highly qualified technical advice, based on its
worldwide experience in implementing financial management and other key public management systems. The
Bank's support would also bring credibility and transparency to the reform effort. The Bank's expertise should
promote efficient and effective use of the resources supporting the SIGECOF strategy, as well as ensuring that
specific initiatives fall within the framework of wider sector reforms, and are supported by appropriate economic
and technical regulation. Finally, Bank support would provide needed financing at a time when it is required.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[N/A] Cost-Benefit Analysis:
[X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[X] Other (Fiscal Impact)
2. Financial (see Annex 5).
Financial controls would be affected by the very nature and objectives of the project, described elsewhere in detail
in this document. The SIGECOF strategy supports the comprehensive integration of the core systems of
government's financial administration: budget, accounting, public debt, treasury, and internal control; and the
related human resource financial management and control system, control and management of non-financial
assets, and planning and evaluation of public expenditure through results.



12
Accountability: Financial systems are powerful- instruments to allocate clear responsibility for managing
resources. A successful overall reform of public financial management systems will produce, by definition, a
decrease in fraudulent activities.
3. Fiscal Impact
Given the nature of this project, an economic or financial project evaluation proves to be extremely difficult, if not
impossible. However, some important fiscal, procedural and personnel benefits can be identified up-front. One
major expected benefit is savings on incurred interest payments on overdue debt payments (intereses de mora), In
i998, these interest payments totaled about US$9 million. As the implementation of SIADE advances, these
payments are expected to be no more than $4 million in 1999, US$2 million in 2000 and zero thereafter. Today,
these payments arise mostly because of deficient record keeping-manual input of debt registry and payment
orders-- and untimely registration of debt service payments. Consequently, from time to time it is not uncommon
to see that payment orders are requested for amounts different from the actual amount due, or that the payment is
done after the actual due date, often because of human omission. SIADE is expected to help reduce these mistakes
and, as stated above, eliminate accruing interest on overdue payments, by having complete and accurate registry of
public debt and its service, and thus automatically generating payment orders to fulfill external debt payment
obligations. SIADE will substantially reduce the need for human input, mostly during the life of the loan, hence
minimizing errors on debt service.
Providing information on a timely and reliable fashion will allow the Treasury and OCEPRE to do better
programming on public resources. Today, available infornation is backlogged 60 days or more. This incomplete
infornatidn gives a partial view of the status of public finances: actual expenditures, commitments, etc. Under the
new system, quarterly allocations could be made based on actual expenditures rather than formal commitments.
This will allow for a better distribution of scarce public funds and minimize allocating funds that will not be used
in the short term. In addition, processing time of payment orders is expected to be substantially cut as most of the
current manual processing and re-transcribing will be substituted by automatic electronic information exchanges.
This system will increase accountability on actual expenditures and will allow the Treasury to attain a more
efficient cash flow management.
Another substantial benefit from SIGECOF is expected to materialize at the personnel level. With the
implementation of automated processes, the demand for low-and medium-skill staff, whose main task is inputting
data and re-transcribing documents, will be lower. For example, Treasury expects to substantially cut the 18
transcribers currently employed at the Central Bank to process payment orders coming from Treasury. However,
as SIGECOF is fully implemented, Treasury human resource skill mix needs will likely change. It is expected that
a large number of low and medium-skill staff would be replaced with a smaller number of higher-skilled staff.
Because of this change in mix, it is important to note that in some cases the impact on payroll might be neutral.
The same is expected to happen, at different degrees, in different administrative units across Ministries and other
entities implcmenting SIGECOF.
The implementation of human resource management system will positively impact the Treasury's cash flow since
currently, the central administration prepares payment orders against all positions, including vacant positions.
Project costs: Total project costs are estimated at about US$24 million, of which US$20 million would be
financed by the Bank and US$4 million by the Borrower.
Project benefits: The project benefits include: (i) better allocation of public resources--an efficient financial
management strategy should improve the allocation of fiscal resources and reduce deviations in budget execution;
(ii) improvement of Government's accountability to the public by enhancing the transparency of budgetary
processes and strengthening internal and external audit functions; and (iii) better targeting of social capital



13
investment as a result of reforms in the identification, evaluation, and monitoring of investment projects, which,
in turn, would provide the needed feedback for improved investment planning and execution, thus producing
greater equity in the allocation of resources.
4. Technical:
The project requires an important input from national and international consultants with experience in budget
evaluation, inventory systems and valuation procedures, fiscal federalism, human resources incentives, and
restructuring processes. The project would take into account the appropriate transfer of knowledge to ensure a
successful continuity of the institutional refonn and development being undertaken.
5. Institutional:
Executing agencies: The Ministry of Finance, as the rector agency for the objectives procured by the SIGECOF
strategy, is also the leading agency in implementing the project. MOF is an institution with a strong reputation and
capacity in the central government. The PCU would be physically located within the Ministry of Finance and run
by personnel of high technical capacity and motivation, with a successful record from the past implementation of
SIGECOF's phase I.
Institutional Assessment: The Ministry of Finance is undertaking a reform to improve the management and control
of public finances, of which SIGECOF is the centerpiece. The design stage was implemented successfully
(SIGECOF I). The second stage, the object of the proposed project, is programmed to broaden the coverage and
transform and integrate the system of financial management at the central, subnational, decentralized and
deconcentrated levels. This will require strong institutional capacity within the central administration, the MOF
and its PCU as well as similarly strong capacity and commitment in the regional governments and municipalities,
and the decentralized administrations.
To facilitate implementation, the project has been incorporated by the national government as an integral part of its
reform program that includes all levels of government. In addition the users of the system are involved in the
definition of the products of the new system and will receive training, with the important byproduct of professional
development in their respective areas.
The development of institutional capacity occurs through the phasing of system integration in six discrete modules
working from the central administration to regional and municipal governments, and the decentralized
administrations. Careful planning of implementation based on capacity assessment, phasing, collaboration, and
monitoring (feedback) have been programmed into the project and is under the responsibility of the MOF and its
PCU. It is expected that the incremental installation of functional and system capacity will enable successful
implementation of the project--despite some asymmetry in capacity within ministries and at the deconcentrated
level. The public consensus concerning the need for public finance management reform, including greater
efficiency and accountability over public resources, political support all all levels of government, the tangible
rewards resulting from the professionalization of public finance professionals and the probable penalties for not
carrying out the reform (i.e., delays in budget approval and its consequences over programming at all levels) are
deemed to provide sufficient incentives to carry out the project as designed. No increase in wages is planned as a
part of participating in the project, although considerable cost savings in the national budget are expected.



14
Project management: The executing unit of SIGECOF's I (a part of the PCU based in CORDIPLAN) overseeing
implementation is performing satisfactorily. For the forthcoming project, this execution unit would become the
Project Coordination Unit and be based at the Ministry of Finance. The coordinators of public credit, budget,
accounting, treasury, and internal control have been integrated under one coordinating unit, while the information
area would be under separate coordination. These two new coordination positions will coexist with the legal
coordinator and the administrative coordinator. The project coordination component comprises a substantial
amount of the proposed budget because ail consultants not assigned to the first five components have been
budgeted here.
5. Social:N/A
6. Environmental assessment:          Environmental Category [] A [ ]B [ X IC
The Bank is providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources under a
grant for Environmental Management and Cartography, approved in November 1997.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Identification     Implementation         Operation
/Preparation
Centralized and       COL                 COL                   COL
decentralized
public
administration
National              IS/CON              COL                   COL
Congress
Other donors          COL                 COL                   COL
b. Other key stakeholders:
Identification     Implementation          Operation
/Preparation
Academic               IS/CON              COL                    COL
institutions
Information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); and collaboration (COL)
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed Public Expenditure Management Reform project should have a major impact in the way public
administration is carried out in Venezuela.  A comprehensive strategy was developed to enhance the
Government's capacity for a more efficient, transparent, and accountable public administration. This involves the
core systems of public administration: budget, national treasury, accounting, public debt, and evaluation of
expenditure, including the related systems of national physical assets, human resources, and planing and
evaluation. The adequate transfer of knowledge generated by the implementation and .operation of the project
should also improve the technical capacity and quality of public sector's personnel complement. The evaluation



15
implemented through results oriented expenditure of public resources should imnprove the allocation of these
resources producing more equitable and sustainable public expenditures..The project will directly support the
sustainability and transparency of the reforms by funding a social communication campaign, designed to promote
the availability to the public of information produced by the integrated financial system.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
Uncertainty about Government's    Moderate    Ongoing dialogue between GOV and the Bank is
policy framework.                            intended to mitigate this risk.
Failure of agencies to participate,   Moderate    Engagement in a training/incentives structure and
use or maintain the strategy.                develop workable inter-agency arrangements. Social
communications to develop external constituencies for
reform.
Government wrongly evaluates    Low          The project emphasizes training on the basics of financial
manpower need.                               management to ensure basic knowledge about the
operation of the systems.
Lag in institutional adaptation to    Substantial   Develop workable institutional arrangements.
budget's evaluation outcomes.
Backlog in the approval of law  Substantial   The strategy counts with high level political support to
amendments or decrees.                       keep draft law momentum at the legislative floor.
Approved legislation never put into Low      Extensive coordination with all political parties and civil
practice                                     society and a selective social communication effort
should maintain the high interest in the effective
implementation of the strategy.
Lack of Congressional commitment Moderate    Organize seminars for representatives in Congress to
to reforms.                                  engage them in understanding the project's relevance.
Absence of staff continuity.    Low          Technical assistance to support the PCU.
From Components to Outputs
Progress of proposals is largely  Moderate    Ensure the commitment of all levels of government to
determined by political factors.            the management and control of public finance as the
strategic tool.
Untimely counterpart funding.   Low          Ensure timely inclusion in the country's annual budget.
Unstable macroeconomic outlook.  Substantial   The project is an integral part of the Government's
agenda to improve financial governance.
Stakeholders do not provide input  Moderate    Extensive training and direct technical assistance to the
into the process of implementation.          ministries will help the implementation.
Incentives to entities to adopt reforms in order to
increase their influence over the design and execution of
their own budgets.
Management and staff of sector    Moderate    A comprehensive training program will help adopt the
institutions fail to internalize             new financial management practices. The Government
changes generated by the new                 has identified the strategy as a.way to "put its house in
strategy.                                    order." Counterpart teams in each executing agency will
be trained to facilitate project implementation.



16
Costs prevent performing asset  Moderate    A calculation of the potential proceeds of the
inventory.                                   rationalization can be an incentive to dedicate resources
to this task.
Overall Risk Rating             Moderate
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Dialogue should be maintained to ensure coordination with participatina agencies.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  Establishment of a financial management svstem satisfactory to the Bank.
*  An Operational Manual of the Project must be approved by the Bank and issued by the Borrower. This
Manual must include the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring, and evaluation of the Project.
2. Other:
Midterm review: The Borrower should undertake a mid-term review of the progress of the Project by Julv 3 1,
2001.
Progress Report: The Borrower will furnish to the Bank six-month project progress reports.
Review of Special Account. The review should take place once any of the following events have taken place:
(a) aggregate disbursement have reached an amount equivalent to US$ 4.0 million; (b) ten requests for
replenishment of the special account have been made; or (c) twenty-four months have elapsed from the date of
the first withdrawal made into for deposit into the special account.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[N/A] 1. The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and readv for the
start of project implementation.
[X ] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X ] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1: Compliance with Bank Po'i es
[X ]  This project complies wit  I a-plicqble Bank policies.
[signaturej
Team Leader: Antonio Ma  'n del Ca po
[signature]   (      In fA .)
Sector Manage/Director: Guillermo Perry
[signature]
Country Manager/Direc ores Solimano



17
Annex 1 Project Design Summary
Venezuela Proposed Public E;xpenditure Management Reform Project
Hierarchy of          Key Performance         Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Objectives               Indicators            Evaluation
Sector-related CAS    Sector Indicators:          Sector / Country   (from Goal to Bank
Goal:                                            Reports:             Mission)
Continued improvement of
Modernizing the public   MDB portfolio           ESW reports;         Modernizing the public
sector.                performnance and          Country reports;     sector will lead to a more
quality.(CAS)                                 efficient allocation of
public resources, ensuring
Operations with two                           sustainable long-term
consecutive satisfactory                      growth and poverty
ratings. (CAS)                                reduction (A);
A comprehensive public                        Oil and political shocks
sector investment policy                      (R);
and the developing of a
national budget strategy
that integrates public sector                 Financial imbalance and
investments at the local,                     significant capital
state, and central levels.                    outflows (R);
(CAS)
Project Development           Outcomes/Impact     Project Reports:   (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
The project aims at improving    1.1. Increased "cost-  Project reports;  Continued strong support
efficiency, transparency, and  effectiveness" of  Supervision        for policy and
accountability in the         selected public     missions;           administrative reform;
management of public finance,   agencies'         Evaluation (midterm
and at strengthening          operational        and final) reports;    Project is complementary
mechanisms of monitoring and   programs.                              and a part of the
control of public resources:                      National and sub-    Government's efforts for
financial, human, and non-    1.2 Fiscal savings    national budget's    the improvement of
financial assets,            resulting from       documents;          governance;
streamlined budgets
Proposed Impact/             in the main central   Independent reviews  The Government
Outcomes                      and decentralized   of agencies'        maintains the
units.              performance;        commitment that
-Minimization of holdings of                                          SIGECOF is the main
surplus and underperforming                       PCU quarterly       tool for the management
assets                                            reports;            and control of public
finance;
-Increased transparency and                       Governmnent reports
trust in the system.                                               , There will be an effective
coordination between the
Specific Impact/Outcomes:                                             ruling agencies and the
beneficiaries of the
-Consistency between budget                                           project;
allocation and true priorities.



18
-Tax burden not distorted by                                          The principles of the
inefficiencies in the expenditure                                    project will be adopted by
system.                                                              the incoming
administration;
Outputs from each             Output Indicators:      Project         (from Outputs to
component:                                            Reports:        Objective)
1. A set of integrated and   1.1 National budget is   Project reports;  Agencies take advantage
comprehensive systems of   formulated through the    Supervision  of the use of SIGECOF;
financial management and   guidelines established by   missions;
control operating in the  SIGECOF.                Evaluation      Willingness of agencies
deconcentrated units of the                       (midterm and   to participate, maintain,
central public            1.2. SIGECOF strategy is  final) reports;   and adequatelv use the
administration, and in the    operating in 160                    system;
decentralized units which    deconcentrated units that  PIP framework;
join the strategy.        represent at least 90% of
the deconcentrated      SIGECOF
govemment's budget      norms and
((20% by 2000) (40% by   procedures;
2001) and (40% by
2002).                  Reports from
ministries and
1.3. 80 states,         entities;
municipalities and
autonomous enterprises    Agreements
participate in the      with sub-
SIGECOF strategy by     national
40% for 2003 and 60%    governments
for 2004.               and
autonomous
1.4 Complete information  public
system of public debt is   enterprises;
established by 2001.
Copies of
regulations;
2. A system of registry,      2.1 Draft Law and/or
management, and control of  Regulation for Non-                   Government renewal
national non-financial    Financial Assets                        process will continue to
assets, including an      Management.                             evaluate manpower
inventory of the Ministry of                                      needs;
Finance non-financial assets  2.2 The Ministry of
within SIGECOF.           Finance uses a system for
the management and                      No significant lag in
control of the Nation's                institutional adaptation to
non-financial assets.                   budget's evaluation
outcomes;
2.3 60% of Ministry of
Finance assets are
inventoried by 2003.
3. Strengthen the capacity of   3. Information solution



19
(a) the central government   within SIGECOF (local)
to monitor and enforce    for the production of each
financial controls of human  entity's payroll and
resources, and (b) the MOF   maintenance of a (current            Law amendments and/or
to allocate adequate      and historical) of                      revision, and decrees
budgetary resources to meet  employees, as well as the            passed by authorities;
objectives and targets.   interface of data with
SIGECOF (central).                      Policy and legislation
developed under the
3.1 The implementation                  project will be adopted&by |
will reduce in 70% the                  Government in a timelv
allocated central budget                manner;
with respect to 1998.
Congress committed to
4. A performance-based       4.1. Implement Ministry-                 public finance reforms:
general income and        specific performance
expenditure budget system   indicators in 60
developed and implemented  programs, to be achieved
(expressed in both physical  50% by 2002 and 100%
and financial indicators, and  by 2003.
the planning of priorities in
future public expenditure.)  4.2. Evaluation
performance mechanism
in place for budget cycle
by 2003.
Adequate continuity of
4.3. Multi-year public                  project staff;
investment plans
integrated into annual
budget document.
5.. Reforms in place and MOF
reorganized to support
improved management of    5.1. The creation of an
fiscal and human resources  internal office for the
in the public sector.     management of non-
financial assets within the
Ministry of Finance.
5.2. Policy studies and
instruments supporting an
effective targeting of
public expenditure and a
reduction of external
shocks effects on the
economy as a whole.
5.3. Technical and
institutional support for
the elaboration of the new
legal framework for
public finances.



20
5.4. Policy studies and
recommendations in
6. Project management         fiscal federalism issues.
effectively carried out.
6. 1. Implementation
according to PIP
indicators.
6.2. Project financial
system in operation.
6.3. Project audit reports
produced on time;
Project Components/Sub-       Inputs: (budget for    Project Reports:   (from Components to
components:                each component)                           Outputs)
1. Deconcentration and        1. US$ 7.1 million    *  Progress reports  Timely counterpart
decentralization of                                 (quarterly);     funding as budgeted;
SIGECOF;                                        *  Disbursement
data;            Macroeconomic outlook
I. 1 Implementation of                            *  Bank              stabilizes and budget
SIGECOF in selected units                          supervision       support for SIGECOF
responsible for budget                             missions          ensured in near-term;
execution in the central                            m
public administration;                                               Institutional resistance
Trainng reorts (BCV) to change;
1.2 Development of a new                          Training reports;
management system for the                       Consultants reports   Adequate input of all
National Treasury;                                                   stakeholders for the
Procurement    process of implementing
1.3 Integration of the existing                   Procurement          SIGECOF;
registry and control system                     r
of public debt with the                         A         r          Management and staff of
central accounting system of                    Actvtes reports;    sector institutions
SIGECOF;                                        PCU reports and on-  internalize the changes
1.4 Development and                               site supervision     generated by SIGECOF;
coordination of a uniform                       visits;              Agencies' ability in
system of management and                        Copies of manuals    managing the strategy;
control of projects financed                    C
by multilateral banks;                                               Agencies' continued use
of the strategy;
1.5 Design and implementation
of a public finance data-                                            Agencies' ability in
warehouse for MOF as a                                               adjusting the strategy to
management tool within the                                           their new requirements;
SIGECOF's strategy;
1.6 Promotion and
implementation of SIGECOF
at the decentralized public
administration. This
implementation entails an
adjustment of the strategy as



21
required by the various
degree of institutional                         *  Progress reports
capacity of states,                                 (quarterly);     Updating of the legal
municipalities and                               *  Disbursement    frarnework;
autonomous public entities.                         data;
Bank             Timely execution of the
2. Registry, Administration and   2. US$ 4.3 million   supervision      inventory;
Control of National Non-                            missions;
Financial Assets;                                                     Diversity of the assets
subject to inventory and
2.1 Development of policies                                             the cost of this activity;
and legal and regulatory
framrwork for the                                                     Establishing of a main
management of non-financial                                           fiscal policy that will
assets and development and                                            allow a more efficient
implementation of a                                                   management of fiscal and
management system of such                                             human resources;
assets;
2.2 Development of a legal and
regulatory framework for the
management of non-financial
assets;
*  Progress reports  Evaluation is used as a
2.3 Development of a                                   (quarterly);     basic tool for expenditure
methodology to keep                              *  Disbursement    planning;
inventorial records of the                          data;
Government's real estate and                     *  Bank              Public budget is used as a
carrying out of the initial                         Bank              tool for defining policies
stages of an inventory of                           supervision       and allocating fiscal
MOF's real estate.                                                    resources;
3. Human Resource Financial    3. US$ 2.7 million*
Management and Control;
Proposals will be
3.1 Development and                                                      consistent with next
implementation of Human                                               administration's goals;
Resource Financial
Management and Control                                                Political consensus will
Systems in each of the units                                          be reached for the
of the Borrower's central                                             achieving of proposals;
administration and
consolidation of such                                                 Progress of proposals is
systems in one at MOF;                                                determined -in part- by a
*  Progress reports  highly political factor;
3.2 Development of a an                                (urel)
information system, within                          (quarerly);t    Timely issuance of
SIGECOF, for the                                    data,             government regulations
production and maintenance                              ,             and orders to facilitate
of payroll data of the                           *        Bank       institutional reformn;
Government's agencies 's                            supervisions;
staff.                                              missions;         Institutional partners and
agencies continue to
4. Planning and Rationalization   4. US$ 0.5 million                     cooperate;



22
of Public Expenditure;
Adequate technical
4.1 Development and                                                     capacity of the PCU;
application of a set of
performance indicators                                               Procurement actions are
designed to correlate the                                            streamlined and timely.
Borrower's actual and
budgeted expenditures and to
evaluate the cost-
effectiveness of its public
programs.;                                       *  Progress reports
(quarterly);
5. Reform and Institutional    5. US$ .8 million   *  Disbursement
Development;                                        data;
*  Bank
5. 1. Reform and institutional                         supervision
strengthening of MOF, its                           missions;
internal organization and
institutional capacity to
manage public expenditure;
5.2. Development of proposals
for coordination of the
investments of the
Borrower's central
administration and the States
and Municipalities;
5.3. Development of policy and
institutional reform
proposals for the
improvement of processes
such as the budget cycle and
its structural rigidities and
the setting of public
expenditure priorities to
introduce a mid-term fiscal
program and improved
intergovernmental relations
and to modify the level of
co-administration between
the Executive and
Legislative powers.
6. Project Management;         6. US$ 4.4 million
6.1 Establishment and operation                    *  Progress reports
of the PCU and support for                          (quarterly);
training, communication                          *  Disbursement
campaigns and improvement                           data;
of informational techniques                      *  Bank
(e.g. web page designs,                             supervision
video-link training).                               missions.        I



23
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Venezuela: Public Expenditure Management Reform Project
Project Components
Component 1 - US$7.1 million
Decentralization and Deconcentration of SIGECOF.
This component would support:
*      implementation of systems developed in the first stage of SIGECOF in 160 units that are responsible for
budget execution in the central public administration;
*      development of a new management system for the National Treasury that involves the modernization of
its procedures;
*      integration of the existing registry and control system  for public debt with the central accounting
SIGECOF;
*      development of a system of registry, budget, and accounting control of projects financed by multilateral
banks to harmonize accounting information required by the Venezuelan Government and MDB;
*      design and implementation of a public finance data warehouse for MOF; and
*      promotion and implementation of SIGECOF's strategy within decentralized and deconcentrated public
administrations (e.g., sub-national governments, autonomous public enterprises, and institutes)
adjusting to accommodate each entity's institutional capacity to participate, as required.
The output of this component would be an integrated system of financial management and control in the
deconcentrated units of the central public administration, and in the decentralized units participating in the
implementation of the SIGECOF strategy.
Component 2 - US$4.3 million
Registry, Administration, and Control of National Non-financial Assets. This component would support
a strategy that includes the creation of policies and legal and regulatory framework for non-financial asset
management and the development and implementation of registry, management, and control system so as to
create an efficient and rational management of these assets'2. The management of these assets is the
exclusive responsibility of the Ministry of Finance based on current legislation. Assets without a formal
owner automatically accrue to the Ministry of Finance. Strategically, this component comprises four levels:
At the normative level, new laws and procedures would be developed to establish criteria for asset
management.
At the institutional level, an organizational reestructuring at MOF would reposition the unit responsible
for asset management and define its relation to other government agencies.
At the managerial level, this new unit would be responsible for the execution of resulting new policies.
Suitable manuals and procedures would be developed.
12 The main elements of the government balance sheet are accounts-payable and non-financial assets. This approach is more
justifiable under an accrual accounting system, where future payments are accounted for, that is, where the value of the assets to
be inventoried and valued is accounted for. The number or the accurate value of existing assets is relatively easy to ascertain.
Hence, an increase in public revenue is not the sole objective of the component. The book value of assets provides an idea of the
relevance of undertaking the proposed action; however, it is probable that they are underestimated, since frequently the original
purchase value is given with no update reflecting inflation.



24
At the operational level, the main tool would be the methodology to keep inventorial records of the
Government's real estate and for carrying out of the initial stages of a pilot inventory of MOF's real estate, to
be replicated in other agencies. An information system for the assets would be developed in parallel.
Establishing control over non-financial assets is a long-term process, with results appearing gradually. This
process requires a competitive detennination of the asset profile using accrual accounting methods currently
not practiced in Venezuela.
The outputs of this component would be a set of regulations, operational guidelines, and a system of registry,
management, and control of national non-financial assets, a methodology to keep inventorial records of the
GOV's real estate and carrying out of the initial stages of a pilot inventory of the Ministry of Finance real
estate. The project would finance consultant services for the first three levels mentioned above.
Component 3 - US$2.7 million
Human Resource Financial Management and Control. This component would strengthen the capacity of:
(a) the central government to monitor and enforce financial controls over human resources, and (b) the
Ministry of Finance to allocate adequate budgetary resources to meet its general objectives and program
targets. The component would develop and implement a human resource financial management and control
system in each of the units of GOV's central administration and consolidate them in the MOF. It would also
develop an information approach for local SIGECOFs to produce each entity's payroll and maintain a
(current and historical) roster of employees, and would integrate this data with central SIGECOF in the
MOF. This would improve the execution of personnel expenditures and provide an adequate inforrnation
base for human resource expenditure policies. The Project would finance:
(i) the preparation by SIGECOF of the technical specifications for the required inforrnation. An interface
to transfer this data would be developed for this purpose.
(ii) the elaboration of a set of regulations for the financial management of human resources.
(iii) the design and development of a local SIGECOF for human resources to support these regulations.
Component 4 - US$0.5 million
Rationalization and Planning of Public Expenditure. This component would support the development and
application of a performance indicators to correlate the outcomes of the budgetary execution process and
physical progress with the goals previously established during the planning phase of the budget.
Additionally, these indicators would contribute to the evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of public
programs. They should also provide feedback for the elaboration of multi-year budgets based on a well-
defined plan for targeting public expenditure priorities. The indicators must also reflect the environmental
and social cost of public sector expenditures.
A team--comprised of the MOF's General Director for Budget Evaluation, an advisor for OCEPRE, national
consultants from SIGECOF, and an international consultant--is already working to further develop the
conceptual basis and define a strategic work plan for this component.
Two additional conditions would contribute to the meeting the goals of this component: In addition to high-
level political support, the information system was designed to be easy to use. and user-based. Also, the
SIGECOF system identifies a workflow and matches it with the information provided by the system.
Essential for budgetary execution is the understanding that resources coming from multilateral agencies are a
vital element in Venezuela's overall budget. If these resources are to produce optimal results, ongoing



25
projects financed by those agencies must be closely monitored and properly evaluated with corresponding
performance indicators.
The output of this component would be a performance-based, general income and expenditure budget, as
measured by both physical and financial indicators, and the establishment of a planning framework to
identify priorities for future public expenditure.
Given that projects financed with multilateral funds represent 20 to 25 percent of central public investment,
these projects would provide a suitable basis for testing the evaluation system.
Component 5 - US$0.8 million
Reform and Institutional Development. This component would support the reform and institutional
strengthening of the Ministry of Finance. Efforts would be made to improve the Ministrv's internal
organization and institutional capacity for the rationalization of public expenditure.
The component would also support proposals for an efficient and rational management of public resources
and public investment through a phased integration of the various levels of government (both national and
sub-national) to eliminate duplication of responsibilities and general inefficiencies. Often, such duplications
prevent economies of scale from being reached. The component should enhance the mobilization of local
resources and produce better tax collection at the sub-national level.
The component includes studies for supporting reforms of the institutional framework related to public
finance processes. Reforms would focus on the budget cycle, structural rigidities in the budget, the lack of a
mid-term fiscal program and for the improvement in intergovernmental relations (i.e., among OCEPRE-.sMH-
CORDIPLAN). Terms of reference would be prepared reflecting the above considerations.
The legal reform currently promoted by GOV, along with the successful track record of SIGECOF, creates a
favorable environment for achieving the component's objective.
The output of this component would be policies studies, the creation of a new office within the Ministry of
Finance for the control and management of non-financial assets, and institutional support for the process of
re-organizing the Nation's public finances through the new legal framework of Public Finance.
Component 6 - US$4.4 million
Project Management. Resources multilateral agencies are an important element of Venezuela's overall
budget. For optimal results, disbursements must be closely monitored and evaluated against results obtained.
This component supports PCU training and technical capacity building. The PCU, which is based in the
Ministry of Finance, would coordinate the technical and administrative execution of the project by preparing
progress reports required by the agencies participating in the project, supporting the administration of project
funds, and assisting Bank supervision missions. The output of this component would be effective project
management and results.



26
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Venezuela Proposed Public Expenditure Management Reform Project
(US$ Millions)
-Proj*ect Cst By   ~         ~     ~    LoCanet   'T otal,
Co1vComponent (al   r                  S$mlo
7.1      7.1
Deconcentration and Decentralization of
SIGECOF.
Registry, Administration, and Control of      .2         4.3       4.5
National Non-financial Assets.
Human Resources Financial Management           .2        2.7       2.9
and Control.
Rationalization and Planning of Public        .3          .5        .8
Expenditure.
Reform and Institutional Development.        --           .8        .8
Project Management.                           3.3        4.4       7.7
Total Baseline Cost                           4.0       19.8      23.8
Front-end fee (1%)                           --          0.2°/     0.2
Total Project Costs                           4.0       20.0      24.0
Total Financing Required                      4.0       20.0      24.0 M
i~acat        e,        ; Total
FPoject Cost by Category (Table BO               Ln
Goods                                        --          9.7       9.7
Services                                      .7         9.5      10.2
Auditing and Training                       --            .6        .6
Other                                        3.3                   3.3
Front-end fee                                 D          0.2       0.2
Total Project Costs                          4.0        19.8      23.8
Total Financing Required                     4.0        20.0      24.0



27
Annex 4:
Venezuela Proposed Public Expenditure Management Reform Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary: N/A
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Econmi          nacaAalis          Txs        S ubsiUdle s
<,  i, g X t ti , 
An-a "jy's"
Project Costs  N/A             N/A                 N/A        N/A
Summary of benefits and costs
Project benefits:
An efficient integrated financial management system will improve the allocation of
fiscal resources, reduce irregularities in budget execution and enhance transparency of
budgetary processes. Together with a strengthened external audit function, this will
improve the accountability of the government to the public and the prospects for greater
equity in the allocation of resources among the agencies. The reforms to strengthen the
investment function are also expected to result in significant efficiency gains, in
particular the evaluation and monitoring of multilateral and investment projects will
provide the needed feedback for improved planning and execution. The fiscal impact
from improved allocation, reduced waste and better planning and execution may be
significant. GOV expects the project to contribute to a reduction in the discrepancy
between the approved and executed investrnent budgets in main budget executing
agencies (principales ordenadores de pago). While moving expenditures forward, the
integrated financial management system should reduce the overall cost of investment by
reducing the impact of inflation on project expenditures. GOV also anticipates an
improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness indicators in the main budget executing
agencies. Efficiency gains would translate into reduced administrative costs for a given
level of output.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
- By having complete and accurate registry of public debt and its service in SLADE,
public debt payments are expected to be no more than $4 million in 1999, US$2 million
in 2000 and zero thereafter.
-Under the new system, quarterly allocations will be made based on actual expenditures
rather than formal commitments.
-Processing time of payment orders is expected to be substantially cut as most of the
current manual processing will be substituted by automatic electronic information
exchanges.
-Another substantial benefit from SIGECOF is expected to materialize at the personnel
level. Treasury expects to substantially cut the 18 transcribers currently employed at the
Central Bank to process payment orders coming from Treasury.
-The implementation of human resource management system will positively impact the
Treasury's cash flow since currently, the central administration prepares payment orders
against all positions, including vacant positions.



Annex 5: Financial Summary
Venezuela: Public Expenditure Management Reform Project
Fiscal Years Ending June 30
Total         Year 1      Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5    Total
Financing
Required
Total           6.23       7.53    4.23         3.8     2.2      23.8
Project
Costs                                                            _
Front-end                                                        0.2
Fee                                   ==                       | 0.2
Total                                                            24.Om
Financing    .                                .
Financing     Year I     Year 2      Year 3   - Year 4   Year 5   Total
IBRD            5.23       6.53       3.23        2.80    2.2      20.0
Government      1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0    ---       4.0
Total Project   6.23       7.53       4.23        3.8    2.2       24.0
Financing                         I                      I                 I
Project Financing Plan (1999-2004) in US$: 20 Millions



29
Annex 6: Procurement and Financial Arrangements
Venezuela: Proposed Public Expenditure Management Reform Project
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
The Government has agreed upon hiring TJNDP to manage the administrative and financial
responsibilities under the project. The estimated fee is about $ 600, 000 which will be paid out of local
counterpart funds. The Bank concurs with this approach on an exceptional basis provided that the
TOR's for the UNDP will include developing an action plan to strengthen the financial and
procurement capacity of the implementing agency. UNDP should also agree to hire competent and
experienced procurement staff. The Bank will ensure of UNDP's personnel knowledge of the
Procurement Guidelines; particularly regarding the hiring of consultants, via a refresher course to be
held in Caracas no later than July 1999.
For the reason of UNDP involvement, the RPA on an exceptional basis has waived carrying out the
capacity assessment of the implementing agency.
The PCU will be responsible for the supervision of the consultant's technical outputs. GOV and UNDP
will follow the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised September 1997 and January 1999 and the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. The proposed procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table A below.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The ICB procurement of goods will be subject to the Bank's prior review as well as the first NCB
procurement. The selection of consulting firns and individual consultants for assignments costing the
equivalent of US$100, 000 and $50,000 or more, respectively will be subject to the Bank's prior
review; for contracts below those amounts, the Bank will have to approve ex-ante only the terms of
reference.
Financial Arrangements
Financial Management System
The Borrower will maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
In compliance with the conditions outlined in the Bank's Project Financial Management Manual (Feb
1999), a LAC FMS carried out the required project financial management assessment to detennine the
capacity to produce PMR's, concluding that the PCU has the capacity to observe Bank standards in this
regard during project implementation. The project's Financial Assessment wa-s performed in Caracas on
May 11, 1999 by FMS Livio Pino (in project's files).
(i) Steps to be taken after Board presentation and before effectiveness to consider adequate the
project's financial management system: The FMS conclusion described above is supported by the



30
PCU's recognized capacity to manage the project together with their commitment to carry out the time-
bound Action Plan described in (iii) . The main elements of this action plan follow the GOV
expectation to avail themselves to PMR based disbursements. This disbursement mode would make
Loan resources available in advance quarterly, on the basis of the cash projections presented by project
management in the corresponding PMR. As condition of effectiveness, GOV is required to establish a
financial management system satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would be satisfied that this system is
established if the steps one through five of the Action Plan are met. The installation and operation of a
financial and physical monitoring mechanism acceptable to the Bank, through which PMR based
disbursements would operate. will be a condition attained as part of the Action Plan not later than
March 31, 2000.
fii)Arrangements for the flow of funds: Disbursements will be made to the speeiai account that will be
opened in the Central Bank. The Governnent will contract UNDP to perform administrative services
for the execution of the project. During the initial period, disbursements will be made against statements
of expenditures/contracts as administered by UNDP. The project will utilize Project Management
Reports initially only as a tool for project management and monitoring. It is expected that not later than
March 30, 2000, once the project management system has the capacity to produce PMR's, the Project
will migrate to the PMR's -based disbursement at the request of GOV.
(iii) Action Plan to satisfy Bank's projectfinancial management requirements:
1.     Define PCU Organizational structure                             5/25/99 (A)
2.     Job descriptions for key PCU staff                              6/30/99
3.     The UNDP Cost Sharing Agreement shall have been agreed
to reflect, under terms acceptable to the Bank the procedures
to be applied by UNDP to administer the Loan, in accordance
with Project Management Reports.                                7/30/99
4.    Identify training required to operate monitoring system          7/31/99
5.    Issue internal instructions as to the utilization offinancial
management information - duties and responsibilities            8/31/99
6.    Identify training to operate PMR based disbursements             9/30/99
7.     Prepare training and implement PMR-based disbursements          2/28/00
A condition for effectiveness of the loan is the establishment of a financial management system
satisfactory to the Bank. Geared towards the implementation of PMR-disbursements, the Borrower shall
carry out the above mentioned time-bound action plan for the strengthening of the financial
management system not later than March 31, 2000.
Project Management Reports
Not later than 18 months after Board approval, the PCU will furnish quarterly' to the Bank a Project
Management Report which specifies actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by that report as well as projected sources and application of
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by that report. The report



31
will also show separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period
covered by the report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during
the next six-month period.
The PMR's will (i) describe physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by the report, and (ii) explain variances between the actual and previously forecast
implementation targets; and (iii) describe the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures
under contracts financed out of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by the report.
Disbursement
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
I.Disbursement will be made over a period of four and a half years. Table C (Annex 6) presents the
expected disbursement by category. The closing date for the proposed loan will be June 30, 2004.
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOE's)
The Borrower will use Statement of Expenditures for contracts below $100,000 in the case of procurement
of goods and below $100,000 and $50,000 respectively for the contracting of firms and individual
consultants, as well of training. Full documentation will be required for disbursements against goods and
services exceeding the above limits. The Borrower must (i) maintain records and separate accounts
reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records evidencing
such expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such
records and accounts are included in the annual audit. The report of such audit must contain a separate
opinion by the auditors as to whether the Statement of Expenditure (or Project Management Reports)
submitted during such fiscal year, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Management of the Special Account
In order to facilitate disbursement, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under conditions
acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars at the Central Bank. There will be an "authorized
allocation" in the amount of US$ 1,200,000. During the early stage of the project, the initial deposit will be
limited to US$ 800,000 until disbursement from the loan reaches the equivalent of US$ 4,000,000.
Withdrawal applications for the replenishment of the Special Account should be submitted to the Bank on a
monthly basis or whenever the balance of the Special Account is equal to half of the initial deposit or the
authorized allocation, whichever occurs first.
For all withdrawals from the Loan Account made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure or Project
Management Reports (as applicable under the arrangement of flow of funds above described), the Borrower
must also keep records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. It will furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (i) certified copies of the financial statements for each year to be audited, and (ii) an
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report by auditors, of a scope and in a detail as the
Bank may reasonably request. The minimum size of application for direct withdrawals from the Loan
Account and for issuance of special commitments will be 20% of the current amount of the authorized
allocation:



32
Withdrawals from the Special Account after migration to PMR-based disbursement Each application for
withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special Account must be supported by a Project
Management Report. Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank
will withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of:
(a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determnined, based on the Project
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report.



33
Venezuela Proposed Public Expenditure Management Reform Project
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
1. Goods                 8.2         .0         .5'                     9.7
(8.2)                  (5)                     (9.7)
2. Consultancies,                              10.12                    10.1
Auditing and                                  (10.1)                   (10.1)
Training
3. Miscellaneous                                           4.03         4.0
(-)
4. Front-end Fee                                                        0.2
Total Project Cost       8.2        1.0        10.6        4.0         24.0
_   (8.2)                (10.6)       (-)         (20.0)
Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table Al- (in US $ million equivalent)
. _____________ Procurement Method
Expenditure      QCBS             Fixed            Individual       Total
Category
Consultant       1.5                               4.5              6.0
Services
Auditing and     1.0              3.0                               4.0
Training                I_                        I 
Total            2.5              3.0              4.5               10.0
'Shopping
2 QCBS, Fixed Cost and Individuals
3Include UNDP fee



34
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          ContractVYWaliie-  ;Pr           t#*1.n- C-,Nt-u-
Category           . (ThreshoiId};a  |-- 
_ _ ,__ _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ __  _  _     _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _       P rior  R evie
US $ thousands                                   US $ millions
2. Goods
More than $250,000           ICB                      All
Less than $250,000, up      NCB                  First one
to an aggregate of
$1,000,000
Less than 75,000, up to   Shopping                  None
an aggregate of
$500,000
3. Services
Including
Training
Firms                 More than $100,000      QCBS, Fixed                    All
Less than $100,000     QCBS, Fixed              Review of all TORs
Individuals           More than $50,000       Individual                     All
Less than $50,000      Individuals              Review of all TORs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
Low   [ ]  Average [X]   High [ 
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
Other = Selection of individual consultarts (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. Not Bank-financed.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s) (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amiount in US$million    F. ..-,ilnancing Percentage
l . Goods                                 $9.7                 100% of Foreign Expenditures
_______________________ _  _____ __  and  85%   of Local Expenditures
2. Consulting Services, Auditing          $10.1                100% of Expenditures
and Training
3. Front end Fee                          0.2
Total Project Cost                        $19.8
Front-end Fee                           $.2
Total_                        __         $20



35
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Venezuela Proposed Public Expenditure Management Reform Project
Project Shedule                                                  anned                     Actual
.~~ A                                                  tia'A   tg) ________ 
Time taken to prepare the project                                 ii                          11
(months) 
First Bank mission (identification)                            08/24/98                    08/24/98
Appraisal mission departure                                    05/10/99                    05/16/99
Negotiations                                                   05/19/99                    05/3 1/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                  07/30/99
Prepared by: Proyecto SIGECOF, Ministry of Finance.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Antonio Martin del Campo                         Team leader/Financial Mgmt.
Monica Fidel                                     Tnstitutional Reform/Human Resources Spec.
Livio Pino                                       Financial Management Specialist
Efraim Jimenez                                   Procurement Assessment Specialist
Eduardo Wallentin                                Institutional Reforrn Spec.
Walter Vergara                                   Environmental Assessment Review Coordinator. LCSES
William Mawille                                  Institutional Assessment Specialist
Maricarmen Minoso                                Fiduciary/Planning and Evaluation Systems Spec.
Rosa Elba Perez-Hemandez                         Lead operational analyst
Luis Felipe Lopez                               I Researcher



36
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Venezuela Proposed Public Expenditure Management Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment (Livio Pino, April 1999)
Institutional Assessment (William Mayville, May 1999)
Social and Environmental Clearance, (Walter Vergara, May 1999)
C. Other
SIGECOF Draft Law (July 1997)
Conceptual Design of SIGECOF Phase I (September 1997)
Progress Report of SIGECOF Project (to October 1998)
"Reestructuracion del Ministerio de Hacienda", Andersen Consulting 96/97
"Programa de Reforma Fiscal" Tomo I y II, Maxim Ross y Asociados, Julio 1996.
*Including electronic files.



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 06/03/99
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Venezuela
Operations Portfolio
As of 31-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in OS$ Millions                       xd aectual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                   disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
_TRD        IDA      Cancellations  tindisbursed         Oriq    Frm Rcv'd
Number of Closed Projects: 21
Active Projects
vE-P6-40174      1999   GOVT OF VENEZUELA                 CARACAS SLUM UPGRADE                     60.70         0.00        0.00               60.70        1.42         0.00
VE-PE-35743      1998   GOVT OF VENEZUELA                 ENV MGT                                  28.00         0.00        0.00               27.22       27.22         0.00
VE-PE-41807      1998   REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA             PUB SEC MOD & DECEN                        B.00        0.00        0.00                8.00        0.00         O.00
VE-PE-44325      1998   GOVERNMENT                        SUPREME COURT STRGTII                      4.70        0.00        0.00                3.23        -.38         O.00
VE-PE-8224       1996   GOVERNMENT                        MONAGAS WATER                            39.00         0.00        0.00               21.77       13.51         -.36
VE-PE-8215       1995   REPUBLIC OF VEN.                  HEALTH SERVICE REFOR                     54.00         0.00        0.00               32.62       25.09        10.89
VE-PE-8222       1995   GOVERNMENT                        AG EXT                                   39.00         0.00        0.00               33.46       11.76         7.27
VE-PE-8237       1995   GOVERNMENT                        INPAMOUES                                55.00         0.00        0.00               47.50       35.18        23.25
VE-PE-8210       1994   GOVT OF VENEZUELA   ELA           URBAN TRANSP.                           100.00         0.00       20.00               46.32       66.32        19.66
VE-PE-8218       1994                                     BASIC EDUC                               89.40         0.00       20.00               31.76       50.92         1.56
VE-PE-8223       1993   GOVERNMENT                        HWY MGMT                                150.00         0.00       40.00               86.61      126.60        21.60
VE-PE-8227       1993   MIN OF HEALTH                     ENDEMIC DISEASE CONT                      94.00        0.00       20.00                8.92       28.91        -1.58
VE-PE-8233       1993   GOV                               JUD.INFRA DEV                            30.00         0.00         0.00              17.44       17.46        11.80
VE-PE-8226       1992   GOVERNMENT                        STUDENT LOAN REFORM                       58.00        0.00         0.00                .10          .09       -7.48
VE-PE-8204       1991   GOVERNMENT OF VENEZUELA           SOCIAL DEVT                             100.00         0.00       15.00                1.87       16.87         1.87
VE-PE-8216       1990   GOVERNMENT OF VENEZUELA           PRE-INV & INSTIT DEV                     30.00         0.00         0.00               7.80         7.80        7.80
Total                                                                                             939.80         0.00      115.00             435.32       428.77        96.28
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  389.46            1,881.79             2,271.25
of which Jhas been repaid:                  66.56              973.09            1,039.65
Total now held by 1BRD and IDA:                  758.24              911.29             1,669.53
Amount sold                                        0.00                27.54               27.54
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               27.54                27.54
Total Undisbursed                :               435.32                 2.59              437.91
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.



38
Annex-10: Venezuela at a Glance                                          1011198
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       America   middle-
Venezuela  & Carib.  income   |Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                    22.8      494       571                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                3,450     3,880    4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   78.5    1,917    2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                      2.2       1.7      1.5
Labor force (%)                                     3.0       2.3      1.9     GNP                            Gross
per                          primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                          capita                      enrollment
Pce.rt; (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)            86        74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    73        70        70
Infant mortaiity (per 1,000 live births)            21        32        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           5         ..       ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)              79        73        79
Illiteracy (°% of population age 15+)                9        13        15   1
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  94     il1       107              Venezuela
Male                                              93         ..       ..              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                            96         ..       ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                        37.5    60.5       70.3     87.5
Gross domestic investmentUGDP             36.2    20.9       16.1     17.7                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP         25.8    19.6       36.7     29.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                36.9    19.9       31.6     26.9
Gross national savings/GDP                36.9    19.7       29.4     24.9
Current account balance/GDP                0.7    -2.6       12.5      6.2     Dos
Interest payments/GDP                      0.4      3.7       2.7      2.2       omestic                   Investment
Total debt/GDP                            13.2    56.8       51.7     45.7     S                           n       t
Total debt service/exports                 4.4    42.4       23.1     34.2
Present value of debt/GOP                    ..      ..      47.8
Present value of debttexports               ..       ..    125.2
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996     1997  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GOP                               -0.4     2.6    -0.4        5.1      3.0        -Venezuela
GNP per capita                    -3.7     0.2    -3.7        3.8      1.5               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services     -2.8     6.6      8.3      10.0      5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(I/ of GDP)                                                                     0T
Agriculture                                4.6      6.6       4.2       4.1
Industry                                  45.8    40.5       46.4     407
Manufacturng                             16.4    23.3      17.7      16.1
Services                                  49.5    52.8       49.3     55.2      o
92      9      95  95  97
Pnvate consumption                        50.8    68.9       63.4     66.9    40 .
General government consumption             12.3    11.2       5.0       6.3 3GDI                        ¢  GDP
Imports of goods and services             25.1    20.7       21.3     20.2              -
197646 1987-97       1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agrculture                                 2.5      0.7       1.9       2.7    s-
Industry                                  -0.4      4.0       2.5      7.2    40
Manufacturng                              4.0     1.8      -2.6       4.1    20
Services                                  -0.7      2.3      -3.8       3.0
Private consumption                        3.1      1.5      -3.9  3. 4    -20        92              95         97
General govemment consumption              1.3      0.8      -7.5      2.1
Gross domestic investment                 -7.8      7.3    -11.4       15.1    o
Imports of goods and services             -3.6      3.9      -7.9      18.3                 Exports     nImporu
Gross national product                    -0.8      2.5      -1.6       5.9
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country on bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



39
Venezuela
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                  _       ___     _
1976    1986      1996     1997   jnflaton (%)
Domest'c p,lcas                                                               j
(% change)
Consumer prices (e.o.p.)                    68.    11.5      103.2     37.6   1 
implicitGDPdeflator                         7.3    -1.2      115.5     38.6
Govemnent finance
(% of GDP, includes cvn'ent gfants)                                            j o
Current revenue                                       ..      34.4     29.5   !         92   93   9'   95   56   97
Current budget balance                                 .      18.3
Overall surplus/deficit                                        7.3       1.9              -GDP deflatrr       CPI
TRADE
1976    1986      1996      1997
(976 mi1986ns)    1996Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions):
Total exworts (fob)                        9,299    8.860    23,400   23,458   iZ5oO -
Petroleum                                        7,592    18,642   18,448   1
Aluminum                                           428       774       784    29000
Manufactures                                         .     2.301     2,315  1j 0s
Total imports (fob)                        6,787  7,862   8.902  10,369              Im         ibhi-
Food                                                         447      256
Fuel and energy                                                .                X0               
Capital goods                                    2,911      3,577    4,414        o
91  92  93  94  ss          V
Exportprlce index (1995=1O0)                  ..      ..       116      107
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                                     102      104   i           *Exports     LImocrns
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..       ..       113      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(LIS$millions)  1976    1986  1996  1~9S    |Current account balance to GOP ratio ('S
(US3 millions)                                                                   -
Exports of goods and services             9,683   10,323    25,260   25,533      1-
Imports of goods and services             9,405   10,286    14,936   18,041
Resource balance                            278       37    10,324    7,492        T
Net income                                  208   -1,497    -1,731    -1,999   i
Net current transfers                      .232    -106        225       51
Current account balance                     254  -1,566      8,818     5,442                        94  ss  96  ;7
Finandng items (net)                      2,089   -2,316    -1,787   -2,575   I
Changes in net reserves                   -2,343    3,882    -7,031    -2,867   1 .10 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     8,596    9,876    15,228   17,818
Conversion rate (DEC. IocaIAUS$)             4.3     8.1     417.3    488.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
19S76    1S8      1S96      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       4,934   34,340    36,332   39,942
IBRD                                      213       23     1,408     1,213                   A: 1.213 C: 1,618
IDA                                         0        0         0        0            G142395            0:127a
Totaldebtservice                            452    5,103     6,189    9,443                     9E8
IBRD                                       34       31       277      205
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                             0        1        13        7
Official creditors                        -36      -55      -190      -254
Private creditors                         924   -1,482       670    4,766
Foreign direct investment                  ..       ..    1,833    4,893
Portfolio equity                            0        0     1,740        0                   F: 30,439
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0        0        39       33        A -                       58RO  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              11        0        48       91     8-IDA    D - Other mutilateral   F- Privat
Principal repayments                       19       28       169      172      C-IMF                       G-Short-term
Net flows                                  -8      -28      -121      -81
Interest payments                          15        3       108       87
Net transfers                             -23      -31      -229      -168
Development Economics                                                                                            1011/98



