Report No. PID7552
PID7552.TXT
Project Name                     Venezuela-Public Expenditure Management...
Reform
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       VEPE57601
Borrower Agency                  The Republic of Venezuela
Executing Agencies               Ministry of Finance
Date this PID                    March 29, 1999
Date initial PID prepared        November 11, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           May 10, 1999
Project Board Date               June 22, 1999
1.Background. The recurrent oil shocks and high levels of public debt have
induced the creation of structural and endemic distortions in Venezuela's
public sector. Venezuela's poor fiscal performance is partly a consequence of
an antiquated financial management system, inadequate human resources and
personnel management policies, and a weak tax administration. A number of
structural characteristics in public finances include : (i) rigidities in the
national budget; (ii) public resources cycles which amplified external shocks;
and (iii) a persistent accumulation of public deficits throughout the years
(1970-1996).
The Integrated System of Financial Management and Control of Public Finance
(SIGECOF) strategy involves a set of reforms at four different levels: (i)
normative, including legal and policy reforms; (ii) institutional, including
organizational change and change in bureaucratic culture; (iii) managerial,
involving the modernization of methods and procedures of each management
function; and (iv) instrumental, focusing on the development of related
information systems and complementary tools.
Within the above outlined framework, the SIGECOF strategy supports the
comprehensive integration of the core systems of government's financial
administration: budget, accounting, public debt, treasury, and internal
control; and the related systems of human resources management, control and
management of non-financial assets, and planning and evaluation of public
expenditure through results. The main objective is to guarantee an improved
oversight of public resources management through opportune and reliable
financial and fiscal information for the decision-making process.
2. Project Objectives. The objective of this project is to strengthen
mechanisms of monitoring and control of public resources and to improve
efficiency and accountability in the management of Venezuela's public
finances. The project will continue supporting the development of an
integrated financial management strategy across government levels by extending
the satisfactory experience of the financial management component under the
Preinvestment and Institutional Development Loan (IBRD-Ln. 3225) which created



the legal, administrative and infrastructure bases to improve the management
of public finances within Venezuela's Ministry of Finance. The proposed new
project would help the government of Venezuela to improve its public finance
administration and fiscal discipline by providing accurate, real-time
information in the management of public resources (human, financial and non-
financial). The project would link central agencies and sub-national
governments to an information network system and provide them with the human
and technical capabilities necessary to analyze financial information and
allocate resources. In addition, national budget programming and execution are
expected to benefit as more accurate information helps decision makers to
rationalize the use of public resources. Lastly, by providing transparent
information on public resources, the project carries an important anti-
corruption dimension.
3. Project Description. The project has five components:
(i) Deconcentration and Decentralization of SIGECOF. This component would
support the implementation of the strategy developed in the first phase of
SIGECOF at selected 160 units belonging to the central public administration
and within the decentralized public administration. The component would also
provide assistance for the development of a definitive solution for the
National Treasury system that involves an automation of its procedures.
(ii) Development and Implementation of a System of Registry, Administration,
and Control of National Non-financial Assets. This component would support a
strategy that includes the creation of a set of policies and regulations for
non financial asset management and the development and implementation of a
system of registry, management, and control in order to create an efficient
and rational management of this type of assets. The management of these assets
is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance according to the current
legislation .
(iii) Human Resource Management and Control. This component aims to
strengthen the capacity of (a) the central government to monitor and enforce
financial controls of human resources, and (b) the Ministry of Finance to
allocate adequate budgetary resources to meet objectives and targets. The
Project would develop an information solution within SIGECOF (local) for the
production of each entity's payroll and maintenance of a (current and
historical) of employees, as well as the interface of data with SIGECOF
(central). This solution would improved the execution of personnel
expenditures and provide an adequate information base for human resource
expenditure policies.
(iv) Development and Implementation of a System of Physical and Financial
Evaluation in Support of Rationalization and Planning of Public Expenditure.
This component would support the development and implementation of global and
common performance indicators in order to correlate the outcomes of the
budgetary execution process to the goals previously set up in the planning
phase of the budget. These performance indicators -in turn- should give
informational feedback for the elaboration of multi-year budgets with a well
defined plan for targeting priorities in public expenditure.
(v) Reform and Institutional Development. This component would support the
reform and institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Finance. The
component would also endorse studies for supporting reforms of the
- 2-



institutional framework related to public finance processes such as the budget
cycle, structural rigidities in the budget, the inexistence of a mid-term
fiscal program and intergovernmental relations such as OCEPRE (MH)-CORDIPLAN
and high levels of co-administration between the National Executive and the
National Congress.
(vi) Project Coordination and Implementation Assistance. The Ministry of
Finance, as the rector agency for the objectives procured by the SIGECOF
system, it is also the leading agency in implementing the project. This
Ministry is an institution with a strong tradition and capacity within the
Government. The PCU would be physically located within the Ministry of Finance
and will be run by personnel of high technical capacity and motivation. The
successful implementation of the SIGECOF's phase I confirms the Government's-
and particularly the Ministry of Finance- capacity to executed the proposed
project.
4. Bank support. Bank support would be channeled towards:
-The Bank's support would ensure credibility and transparency to the reform
effort. The Bank's expertise should promote efficient and effective use of the
resources supporting the SIGECOF project, as well as ensuring that specific
initiatives fall within the framework of wider sector reforms, and are
supported by appropriate economic and technical regulation. Finally, Bank
support would provide needed financing on time.
-Strengthening the sub-national government's capacity to design and implement
transactions would ensure the sustainability of the initiatives (consultant
services, equipment and training)
5. Target beneficiaries. The primary beneficiaries will be central government
entities, decentralized public administration (sub-nationals governments and
autonomous public enterprises), and population at large.
6. Project financing. Total project cost is estimated at US$ 24 million
equivalent, of which US$ 20.0 would come from the IBRD and US$ 4.0 from the
Government.
7. Participatory approach. The collaboration of deconcentrated and
decentralized public administration is expected in the earlier stages as the
main objective is to expand the financial management system to those levels.
This collaboration will seek to increase project ownership and sustainability.
The National Congress will also be involved as a partner in the preparation
stage because of its required approval to increase the project's feasibility
The IDB is currently preparing projects on the similar field and cooperation
will be sought to efficientize the resources coming from the multilateral
banks.
8. Project implementation.
-Implementation period: Four years (1999-2004).
-Executing agencies/Project coordination: The project will be coordinated by
the PCU at the Ministry of Finance. The successful implementation of the
SIGECOF's phase I indicates the Government's- capacity to executed the
proposed project. The PCU will be headed by a project director and Venezuelan
professionals assigned to oversee central project activities. Each agency
implementing the strategy would have management teams to oversee its
implementation. The PCU would provide more direct support to teams in smaller
agencies and to weaker subnational governments..
- 3 -



-Project oversight: Ministry of Finance.
-Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: A Financial
Management Specialist will visit the Project Coordinating Unit to carry out
the required project financial management assessment. At the time of the FMS
visit, the development and installation of a project monitoring mechanism will
be agreed with project management. This mechanism will be capable of producing
quarterly project management reports (PMRs) in the format and content
acceptable to the Bank. Shortly after effectiveness, an independent accounting
firm acceptable to the Bank will be engaged to carry out the covenanted yearly
audit, in accordance with terms of reference provided by the Bank.
-Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Action plans will be developed for
each part of the project and agreed during appraisal. These include clear
performance indicators to be reviewed semi-annually. Special attention will be
given to the launching of the system in the states and municipalities.
9. Project sustainability. The proposed Public Expenditure Management Reform
project should have a major impact in the way public administration is carried
out in Venezuela. The intention of a comprehensive strategy that involves the
core systems of public administration: budget, national treasury, accounting,
public debt, and evaluation of expenditure, including the related systems of
national physical assets, human resources, and planing and evaluation, should
enhance the Government's capacity for a more efficient, transparent and
accountable public administration. The adequate transfer of knowledge
generated by the implementation and operation of the project should -in turn-
improve the technical capacity and quality of public sector's human component.
The evaluation implemented through results oriented expenditure of public
resources should improve the allocation of these resources producing,
therefore, a more equitable and sustainable public expenditure. The project
will directly support the sustainability (and transparency) of the reforms
through the funding of a social communication campaign, designed to promote
the availability to the public of information produced by the integrated
financial system.
10. Lessons from previous Bank involvement.
The lessons learned from other public sector projects (specially from the
development and implementation of SIGECOF's first phase) are the following
ones:
(i) Ownership. The Borrower's sense of commitment and ownership of the
overall reform is usually achieved through extensive and deep dialogue with
the authorities in all aspects of project design and implementation.
(ii) Incentives. Public officials of participating government agencies and
subnational governments must be actively engaged in using the strategy. In
order to create adherence to new "rules of the game", they should perceive
the changes as means that will make their jobs simpler, yet more efficient and
effective .
(iii) Usefulness. With the infrastructure in place, large amounts of
financial information will be produced and the project's structured training
would teach users how to make information productive in their management
practice.
(iv) Consensus. The build up of consensus in relation to the project
implementation's costs and benefits must be sought. For the achievement of
this consensus, the project should be presented to a wide audience of senior
- 4 -



Executive Branch and Congressional leaders, civil society, and key staff
within the public administration;
(v) Public access to information. For the sake of consensus, increased
transparency and accountability, the project would make an effort to publicize
the availability of the information produced by the systems.
(vi) PCU administrative capacity. In the particular case of lessons learned
from other Venezuelan operations, the technical capacity of the PCU as well as
close supervision of project's operations is essential to the attainment of
goals in time and with high levels of quality.
(vii) Procurement. This project will aim to remedy systemic weaknesses in the
payment system and procurement organization through the incorporation of LACI
procedures and training of local staff in these new yet simpler, operational
guidelines.
11. Project Benefits. The successful implementation of the project should
produce the following benefits: (i) efficient financial management and
effective control and monitoring within the central administration and the
decentralized administrations that choose to participate; (ii) improved
transparency and equity in the processes of allocating public resources; and
(iii) improved levels of accountability in the management, investment, and
monitoring of public resources.
12. Risks. From Outputs to Objective, risks are associated with: Agencies fail
to participate, use or maintain the system; Government wrongly evaluates
manpower needs; Lag in institutional adaptation to budget's evaluation
outcomes; Backlog in the approval of law amendments or decrees; Approved
legislation is never put in practice; Lack of Congress's commitment to
reforms; Absence of staff continuity.
From Components to Outputs, risks are associated with: Progress of proposals
is largely determined by political factors, Untimely counterpart funding;
Unstable macroeconomic outlook; Budget support for reform can not be ensured
in the near term; Stakeholders do not provide input in the process of
implementation; Management and staff of sector institutions fail to
internalize changes generated by the new system; Cost prevents performing
asset inventory; Lack of commitment of OCP to reform human resources
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 16, 1999.
Gustavo GarcUa, et.   Al.  "La sostenibilidad de la polUtica fiscal en Venezuela",
Instituto de Estudios Superiores de Administraci6n (IESA), Caracas, 1997.
- 5 -



Different client groups would be identified and a structure of incentives designed
justified on the basis of (a) the greater autonomy in the day-to-day operations as
information is no longer centralized; (b) uniformity and consistency that brings greater
technical credibility.
- 6 -



