                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                             Report No:ICR197




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-45030)

                                    ON A LOAN


                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 12.0 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                    BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

                                      FOR A

               PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                   April 30, 2007




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2006)

                         Currency Unit = Bolivar (B)
                               1.00 = US$ 0.0465
                             US$ 1.00 = 2,150 (B)

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 to December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARTEMISA Electronic Public Debt Negotiation Platform (Plataforma para la Negociación
         Electrónica de Títulos Públicos)
BCV      Venezuelan Central Bank (Banco Central de Venezuela)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CGR      Comptroller General Office (Contraloría General de la República)
GOV      Government of Venezuela
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      International Monetary Fund
ISR      Implementation Status Report
LAC      Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LOAFSP   Organic Law of Public Sector Financial Administration (Ley Orgánica de
         Administración Financiera del Sector Público)
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MDB      Multilateral Development Bank
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOP      Memorandum of the President
MPD      Ministry of Planning and Development
MTR      Midterm Review
NBF      Not-Bank Financed
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
ONAPRE   National Budget Office (Oficina Nacional de Presupuesto)
ONCOP    National Accountancy Office (Oficina Nacional de Contabilidad)
ONCP     National Office of Public Credit (Oficina Nacional de Crédito Público)
ONT      National Office of Treasury (Oficina Nacional del Tesoro)
OP       Operational Manual
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDVSA    Venezuela Government Oil Company (Petróleos de Venezuela S.A.)




                                 Vice President: Pamela Cox
                               Country Director: Marcelo Giugale
                                Sector Manager: Nicholas Manning
                         Program Team Leader: David F. Varela
                              ICR Team Leader: David F. Varela

PIP        Project Implementation Plan
PMR        Project Management Report
PSR        Project Status Report
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QET        Quality Enhancement Team
SIADE     Public Debt Administration Integrated System (Sistema Integrado de
           Administración de la Deuda Pública)
SIBOS      Goods, Works and Services Integrated System (Sistema Integrado de Bienes,
           Obras y Servicios)
SIGADE     System of Administration and Control of Debt (Sistema de Gestión y
           Administración de la Deuda)
SIGECOF    Integrated Public Financial Management and Control System (Sistema Integrado
           de Gestión y Control de las Finanzas Públicas)
SIGEFIRRHH Human Resources Financial Management System (Sistema de Gerencia
           Financiera de Recursos Humanos)
SITP      Public Employees Integrated System (Sistema Integrado de Empleados Públicos)
SNIP       National System of Public Investment (Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública)
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
SUCERTE    Superintendence of Electronic Certification (Superintendencia de Certificación
           Electrónica)
TAL        Technical Assistance Loan
TOR        Terms of Reference
TTL        Task Team Leader
UAD        Deconcentrated Administrative Units (Unidades Administrativas
           Desconcentradas)
UNCTAD    United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
USEPP      Evaluation Unit of Public Policies (Unidad de Seguimiento y Evaluación de
           Políticas Públicas)

                                           VENEZUELA
                       Public Expenditure Management Project




                                           CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information......................................................................................i
   B. Key Dates...............................................................................................i
   C. Ratings Summary......................................................................................i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes.............................................................................ii
   E. Bank Staff..............................................................................................ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis........................................................................ii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs............................................................v
   H. Restructuring ..........................................................................................v
   I. Disbursement Graph...................................................................................vi

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
 6. Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application) ............... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by components................................................................................ 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................ 31
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 34
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 34
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 35
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 39
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     VE PUBLIC
Country:                Venezuela             Project Name:          EXPENDITURE
                                                                     MANAGEMENT
Project ID:             P057601               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-45030
ICR Date:               04/30/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     FIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     VENEZUELA
Original Total
                        USD 20.0M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 12.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/11/1998    Effectiveness:       07/18/2000          07/18/2000
Appraisal:             05/16/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/29/1999    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:             06/30/2004          06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Highly
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             100                   100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                     Primary              Primary
Decentralization                                            Secondary             Secondary
Law reform                                                  Secondary              Primary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                              Primary              Primary
procurement


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:        Marcelo Giugale                   Andres R. Solimano
Sector Manager:           Fernando Rojas                   Geoffrey Shepherd
Project Team Leader:      David F. Varela                  A. C. Martin Del Campo
ICR Team Leader:          David F. Varela
ICR Primary Author:      Sati Achath



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's mechanisms of monitoring
and control of public resources and to improve efficiency and accountability in the
management of the Borrower's public finances.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objectives were not revised.



                                            ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval          Target         Completion or
                                             documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Increased cost effectiveness of selected public agencies' operational programs.
                                         Increased cost
                                         effectiveness as                    Increased cost

Value                                    measured by                         effectiveness as

quantitative or Costly operational       national and                        measured by

Qualitative)    programs                 subnational budget                  national and sub-

                                         documents, and                      national documents,

                                         evaluation reports.                 evaluation reports.

Date achieved 07/18/2000                 06/30/2005                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Fiscal savings resulting from streamlined budgets in the main central and
               decentralized units.
                                         Fiscal savings                      Fiscal savings
Value           Inconsistent budget      achieved as                         achieved as
quantitative or allocations and unclear  measured by                         measured by
Qualitative)    priorities               Government and                      Government and
                                         evaluation reports.                 evaluation reports.
Date achieved 07/18/2000                 06/30/2005                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  SIGECOF implemented in the deconcentrated administrative units.
                                         SIGECOF             Implement
Value           The are 576              implemented in      SIGECOF in      SIGECOF

(quantitative   deconcentrated units that160                 321             implemented in 321

or Qualitative) were not electronically
                integrated to SIGECOF.   deconcentrated      deconcentrateddeconcentrated
                                         units.              units.          units.

Date achieved 07/18/2000                 06/30/2005          06/30/2005      06/30/2006

Comments        PAD established as original target values SIGECOF implementation in 160

(incl. %        deconcentrated units. During project execution SIGECOF was implemented in

achievement)    321 deconcentrated units (56% of 576 existing deconcentrated units. Original
                goal surpassed 100%.
Indicator 2 :  Integration of the existing public debt registry and control systems with the


                                               iii

               central accounting system SIGECOF and development of a uniform system of
               management and control of operations.
                                          The Government Implement an
                                          signed an          efficient and   Uniform system in

                                          agreement with     cutting edge    operation.

Value           Deficient registry system UNCTAD, for a      financial       Systematic support

(quantitative   for controlling public    new version of     administration  during the

or Qualitative) debt.                     SIGADE and the system and          implementation of

                                          development of     strengthen the  SIGADE and it

                                          the informatics    public credit   integration with

                                          tool.              system.         SIGECOF

Date achieved 07/18/2000                  06/30/2005         06/30/2005      06/30/2006
Comments        The project promoted and supported the acquisition and implementation of the
(incl. %        public credit system which substantially contributed to the best administration of
achievement)   public debt by MOF.

Indicator 3 :  Redesign of SIGECOF, incorporating modern technologies of integrated
               financial administration systems.
                                          New conceptual
                                          and functional
                                          designs, budgetary
                                          and economic
                                          classifiers,

Value                                     patrimonial

(quantitative   0                         account plans,

or Qualitative)                           single conversion
                                          matrix. New
                                          informatics tools
                                          for budget
                                          execution and
                                          accounting
                                          available.
Date achieved 07/18/2000                  06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Strengthen the capacity of the central government to monitor and enforce
               financial controls of human resources.
                                          Implementation of
                                          new monitoring
                                          and control
                                          modules in 22
                                          agencies of the
Value                                     central
(quantitative   0                         administration, the
or Qualitative)                           Industrial Bank of
                                          Venezuela, the
                                          Treasury Bank and
                                          the Bolivarian
                                          University (81%
                                          of the total).


                                               iv

Date achieved 07/18/2000            06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                  Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived           DO                     IP           Disbursements
                                                               (USD millions)
  1     04/04/2000      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               0.00
  2     06/29/2000      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               0.00
  3     12/19/2000      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               1.47
  4     02/14/2001      Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory             1.47
  5     06/28/2001      Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory             2.25
  6     12/21/2001      Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory             2.87
  7     02/21/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               3.14
  8     06/27/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               3.35
  9     11/26/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               5.30
  10    12/19/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               5.30
  11    06/25/2003      Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory             5.74
  12    12/16/2003      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               6.49
  13    06/14/2004      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               6.85
  14    12/20/2004      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               8.17
  15    05/18/2005      Satisfactory          Satisfactory               9.14
  16    06/22/2006      Satisfactory          Satisfactory             12.09



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                        v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

    A. Political

Overview. After the mid-1980s, the quality of democratic governance and public institutions
deteriorated in Venezuela. The disappointing economic performance of the 1980s generated a
realignment of electoral preferences in search of new alternatives. Two failed military coups in
1992, the impeachment and removal from office of President Pérez in 1993, the return to power
of former President Caldera in 1994, and the electoral victory of outsider Hugo Chávez in 1998
were milestones in the collapse of the Constitutional regime established in 1958.

New Constitutional Framework. President Chávez initiated his first term with a proposal to
overhaul the country's institutions. He promoted the drafting of a new Constitution that was
ratified by a National Referendum in late 1999. The Constitution changed the basis of
Venezuela's political system and established new principles for the country's economic and
social development.

         (a)     Political System. According to the Constitution, Venezuela is a Democratic and
Social State of Law and Justice. The Constitution extended the President's term in office from
five to six years, introduced the possibility of immediate reelection, and provided various
mechanisms for citizen participation (for example, recall referendum and local planning councils).

         (b)     Economic and Social Development. The Constitution establishes a system based
on economic freedom and private initiative, with significant intervention of the State to assure
social justice. Specific provisions deal with issues like: (a) the Venezuelan Central Bank (BCV)
independence, (b) the establishment and operation of the Macroeconomic Stabilization Fund
(FEM), and (c) the promotion of economic integration and development in the Latin America and
the Caribbean Region (LCR). Natural resources remain in public ownership. The Constitution
promotes respect for enhanced indigenous people's rights, declaring Venezuela a multicultural
and pluri-ethnic country.

Recent Political Developments. The political crisis that included a failed coup in April 2002 and
a two-month national strike in December 2002 was resolved in 2004 through a recall referendum
which confirmed President Chávez. Sustained popular support and the withdrawal of the
opposition candidates shortly before the 2004 and 2005 elections led to his coalition winning 21
out of 23 state governorships, a large majority of mayoralities and municipal councilor positions,
and all the seats in the National Assembly. Finally, Mr. Chávez won the December 3, 2006
election by more than 62 percent of the votes. The President's main campaign pledges were: (a)
to pursue a constitutional amendment to eliminate presidential term limits (this would allow him
to run again in 2012); (b) to enhance, deepen, and expand the "Bolivarian Revolution" to build "a
21st century socialism" in Venezuela. This includes institutionalizing the popular social programs
(misiones), reducing bureaucracy, and fighting corruption; and (c) oppose U.S. hegemony and
promote a "multi-polar" world. During his third inauguration in January 2007, Mr. Chávez
announced     his   intention   to    "nationalize    strategic  sectors"    including power   and
telecommunications.



                                                  1

     B.   Economic

Overview. The Venezuelan economy is exposed to considerable volatility related to the country's
terms of trade. The dependence on a volatile commodity (oil) has translated into high relative
variance of most macroeconomic indicators. Previous attempts by Venezuelan authorities to
reduce the impact of such variances through stabilization funds and reform programs have had
limited impact; the rules applicable to stabilization funds have been continuously changed and the
programs have lacked continuity and coordination. As a result of the 2002­03 political turmoil
and the ensuing oil sector strike, economic growth contracted severely and unemployment and
inflation rose significantly.    Since the last quarter of 2003, the Venezuelan economy has
experienced a strong expansionary cycle with 13 consecutive trimesters of positive growth
rates--the longest cycle in the country's history. The increase in the gross domestic product
(GDP) came from higher consumption (both private and public) fueled by the oil sector windfall
and credit boom.

Fiscal Policy. The boom in oil prices and improved efficiency in tax collection and administration
have increased government revenues, helping the fiscal accounts reach a surplus of 2.6 percent of
GDP in 2005. However, the non-oil fiscal deficit reached 17.5 percent of GDP, and any major
slide in oil prices could generate a serious fiscal imbalance. The current level of public spending,
around 37 percent of GDP, is sustainable only if oil prices remain at high levels, and will be
difficult to reduce if oil prices decline, because oil revenues supply about 45 percent of budget
income. To manage the windfall revenues, several funds have been established outside the
national budget, including the National Development Fund (FONDEN), which received $8.5
billion in 2005, or six percent of GDP. The State Oil Company (PDVSA) has become a direct
financier of social expenditures.

Monetary and Exchange Policy. Since the inception of exchange controls in 2003, the monetary
aggregates have grown at rates exceeding 50 percent a year, a fact that, together with the
establishment of a fixed exchange rate regime, has limited the ability of the BCV to conduct
monetary policy. To restrain the impact of monetary growth on inflation, BCV has issued the
equivalent of $16 billion in certificates of deposit (as of December 2006). As a result of this
sterilization policy, the real exchange rate has not yet appreciated significantly despite the oil
windfall.

Public Debt. Venezuela's total public debt stands just below 25 percent of GDP. Public external
debt was $27.2 billion as of end-December 2006. The maturity structure of the external debt is
relatively sound, with about 75 percent maturing in 2011 and beyond. Despite recent upgrades by
credit rating agencies, Venezuela's ratings remain below investment grade, due to concerns about
the sustainability of public finances and political risks. The debt management strategy for 2006
was consistent with prudent debt management practices and no changes are expected for 2007.
The first stage of this strategy--to lower indebtedness to 31.7 percent of GDP--was launched in
March 2006 with the buyback of $4 billion in Brady bonds and prepayment of around $500
million owed to bilaterals and IBRD. The second stage, which started in May 2006, would tackle
the internal debt's structure, lengthening the maturity of instruments and shifting from a variable
to a fixed rate. Venezuela has also invested in sovereign bonds of other LCR countries.

Sector Background

Public Expenditure Management Issues: Recurrent oil shocks and public debt have led to
structural and chronic distortions in Venezuela's public sector. Venezuela's poor fiscal


                                                   2

performance has been partly a consequence of an antiquated public financial management system,
inadequate human resources and personnel management policies, and a weak tax administration.
Public finances have been characterized by structural deficiencies such as: (i) rigidities in the
national budget; (ii) public resource cycles that increase the effect of external shocks; and (iii) an
accumulation of public deficits over nearly three decades (1970-96).

The problems presented by the management of public resources included: (i) significant
deviations between the budget approved by Congress and the one executed because of a lack of a
proper evaluation of expenditure results and due to horizontal transfers between subsections of
deconcentrated units; (ii) overly-centralized procedures due to a high degree of co-management
between the Executive and Congress; (iii) sharp declines in investment spending resulting from
oil shocks (iv) lack of an effective internal control to support sound accounting practices;( iv)
weak incentive mechanisms for promoting and enhancing human resources within the public
sector; (vi) no system of control and management of the Nation's non-financial assets; and (vii)
institutional arrangements between the executive, the sub-national governments, and Congress
that inhibited the effective management of public resources. In addition, the management of
public resources was also characterized by: (viii) a dispersion of payments and structural
impediments to implementing a single-account approach; (ix) inability to know precisely the
availability of funds in all budget executing agencies; (x) fiscal management based on formal
budget approval instead of actual availability of funds; and (xi) numerous "cash advances" that
led to the emission of government bonds to finance the cash flow.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy's
(CAS) for Venezuela.1 The project was envisioned to contribute to the CAS goal of modernizing
the public sector. In addition, the Bank's substantial experience in the Region would: (i) supply
highly qualified technical advice, based on its worldwide experience in implementing financial
management and other key public management systems; (ii) bring credibility and transparency to
the reform effort; (iii) promote efficient and effective use of the resources supporting a broad
modernization strategy (Sistema Integrado de Gestión y Control de las Finanzas Públicas ­
SIGECOF), as well as ensuring that specific initiatives fall within the framework of wider sector
reforms, and were supported by appropriate economic and technical regulation; and (iv) provide
needed financing at a time when it was required.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objective of the project was to strengthen mechanisms of monitoring and control of public
resources and to improve efficiency and accountability in the management of Venezuela's public
finances. Significant achievements in core strategic areas were expected: (i) integration of the
existing public debt registry and control systems with the central accounting system, and
development of a uniform system of management and control of operations; (ii) establishment of
a general inventory of Government assets; (iii) implementation of human resources financial
management and control systems; and (iv) designing a system of budgetary monitoring and
evaluation.




1 Document number: 16471 VE; Date of latest full-fledged CAS discussion: May 6, 1997




                                                       3

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The objective was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in
the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

The main beneficiaries of the project were: central government entities and decentralized public
entities.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1 ­ Decentralization and Deconcentration of SIGECOF (Project Cost: US$7.1
million)

This component would support:

    · implementation of systems developed in the first stage of SIGECOF in 160 units that
         were responsible for budget execution in the central public administration
    · development of a new management system for the National Treasury that involved the
         procedural modernization
    · integration of the existing registry and control system for public debt with the central
         accounting SIGECOF
    · development of a system of registry, budget, and accounting control of projects financed
         by multilateral banks to harmonize accounting information required by the Government
         of Venezuela (GOV)
    · design and implementation of a public finance data warehouse for the Ministry of
         Finance (MOF)
    · promotion and implementation of SIGECOF's strategy within decentralized and
         deconcentrated public administrations (e.g., sub-national governments, autonomous
         public enterprises, and institutes) adjusting to accommodate each entity's institutional
         capacity to participate, as required

Component 2 - Registry, Administration, and Control of National Non-financial Assets.
(Project Cost: US$4.3million)

This component would support a strategy that included the creation of policies and legal and
regulatory framework for non-financial asset management, and the development and
implementation of a registry, administration, and control system so as to ensure efficient and
rational management of these assets, under the exclusive responsibility of MOF based on current
legislation. Strategically, this component comprised four levels:

    · At the normative level, new laws and procedures would be developed to establish criteria
         for asset management
    · At the institutional level, an organizational restructuring of MOF would reposition the
         unit responsible for asset management and define its relationship to other GOV agencies
    · At the managerial level, this new unit would be responsible for the implementation of the
         new normative framework.




                                                      4

At the operational level, the main tool would be a methodology to keep inventory records of the
GOV's real estate and to carry out a pilot inventory of MOF's real estate, to be replicated in other
agencies. An information system for these assets would be developed in parallel.

Component 3 - Human Resource Financial Management and Control. (Project Cost: US$2.7
million)

This component would strengthen the capacity of: (i) GOV to monitor and enforce financial
controls over human resources; and (ii) MOF to allocate adequate budgetary resources to meet its
general objectives and program targets.

The component would develop and implement a human resource financial management and
control system in each of the units of GOV's central administration and consolidate them in MOF.
It would also develop an information approach to produce each entity's payroll and maintain a
current and historical roster of employees, and would integrate this data with central SIGECOF in
MOF. This would improve the execution of personnel expenditures and provide an adequate
information base for human resource expenditure policies.

The project would finance: (i) the preparation by SIGECOF of the technical specifications for the
required information. An interface to transfer this data would be developed; (ii) the elaboration of
a set of regulations for the financial management of human resources; and (iii) the design and
implementation of a local SIGECOF for human resources to support these regulations.

Component 4 - Rationalization and Planning of Public Expenditure. (Project Cost: US$0.5
million)

This component would support the development and application of performance indicators to
correlate the outcomes of the budgetary execution process and physical progress with the goals
previously established during the budget planning phase. Additionally, these indicators would
contribute to the evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of public programs. They would also provide
feedback for the elaboration of multi-year budgets based on a well-defined plan for targeting
public expenditure priorities. The indicators would also reflect the environmental and social cost
of public expenditures.

Component 5 - Reform and Institutional Development. (Project Cost: US$0.8 million)

This component would support the reform and institutional strengthening of MOF. Efforts would
be made to improve the Ministry's internal organization and institutional capacity for the
rationalization of public expenditure. The component would also support proposals for an
efficient and rational management of public resources and public investment through a phased
integration of the various levels of Government (both national and sub-national) to eliminate
duplication of responsibilities and general inefficiencies.

The component included studies for supporting reforms of the institutional framework related to
public finance processes. Reforms would focus on the budget cycle, structural rigidities in the
budget, the lack of a mid-term fiscal program and the improvement in intergovernmental relations.




                                                  5

Component 6 - Project Management. (Project Cost: US$4.4 million)

This component supported a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) technical capacity-building. The
PCU would coordinate the technical and administrative execution of the project by preparing
progress reports required by the agencies participating in the project, supporting the
administration of project funds, and assisting Bank supervision missions.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
(In design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

Project schedule: The closing date of the project was extended for the first time by one year from
June 30, 2004 to June 30, 2005 in order to provide extra time for the implementation of the
previously reoriented components. It was extended for the second time by another year to June 30,
2006 in order to complete key pending activities that GOV had identified as priorities.

Scope and scale of the project: See section 2.2

Funding allocations: An amount of US$5.5 million of the loan was cancelled before the closing
date because GOV determined it would not be possible to spend that amount within the revised
Closing Date



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) aimed at strengthening financial public sector and
supporting GOV during the implementation of systems and procedures to provide more efficiency
and transparency for the management of public finances and to contribute to fight against
corruption as substantial goals established by the CAS.

During preparation, the project design took into account lessons learned from other public sector
projects (especially from the development and implementation of SIGECOF's first stage).
Likewise, the design considered the risk factors and appropriate measures were adopted to
mitigate them. The project also provided an adequate participatory framework.

    a) Lessons Learned from previous projects

    · Incentives. Merely adopting a new set of formal rules is not sufficient to change an
         institutional culture and incentive structure based on informality. Public officials of
         participating government agencies and subnational governments were committed to using
         the SIGECOF strategy; otherwise, a project focused on MOF run the risk of being
         regarded as only serving this Ministry's special needs. Officials must "buy-in" to the
         program so they are willing not only to learn how to use the strategy but how to put it



                                                     6

        into practice. To foster adherence to "new rules of the game", participants should
        perceive the envisaged changes as a way to make their jobs simpler, yet more efficient
        and effective.

   · Ownership. The Borrower's sense of commitment and ownership of the overall reform is
        usually achieved through extensive dialogue with the authorities in all aspects of project
        design and implementation.

   · Usefulness. With the infrastructure in place, large amounts of financial information will
        be produced and the project's structured training would teach users how to make
        information productive in their management practices. Phased training would involve
        public officials incrementally, overcome potential reticence, and assist them in learning
        how to use the new tools. GOV began to use this training by acquainting managers and
        technicians with initial versions of the platform as well as with basic concepts of financial
        management.

   · Consensus building. Creating a consensus about project implementation costs and
        benefits is critical. For the achievement of this consensus, the project was presented to a
        wide audience of senior Executive Branch and congressional leaders, civil society, and
        key staff within the public administration.

   · Public access to information. For the sake of consensus, increased transparency and
        accountability, the project should make an effort to publicize the availability of
        information produced by the systems. Criteria should be established so as to determine
        levels of access of different groups to the information, including the legislature, other
        civil servants, the general public, and other public groups. Informing these groups about
        the availability of the information required the use of social communication campaigns
        and other informational techniques.

   · PCU administrative capacity. In the case of lessons learned from other Venezuelan
        operations, the technical capacity of the PCU as well as close supervision of project
        operations were essential to attain goals on time and with high quality. The project was
        expected to benefit from the executing unit of the previous project which was
        implementing SIGECOF satisfactorily.

   b) Risks and their mitigation.

                      Risk                                        Mitigating measure
Lag in institutional adaptation to budget's         Develop workable institutional arrangements
evaluation outcomes
Backlog in the approval of law amendments or        The strategy counted with high level political
decrees                                             support to keep draft law in the National
                                                    Assembly
Unstable macroeconomic outlook                      The project was an integral part of the
                                                    Government's agenda to improve financial
                                                    governance
Uncertainty about Government's policy               Ongoing dialogue between GOV and the Bank
framework                                           was intended to mitigate this risk
Failure of agencies to participate, use or          Engagement in a training/incentives structure
maintain the strategy                               and develop workable inter-agency



                                                  7

                                                     arrangements. Social communications to
                                                     develop external constituencies for reform
Lack of Congressional commitment to reforms          Organize seminars for National Assembly
                                                     members to engage them in understanding the
                                                     project's relevance
Progress of proposals largely determined by          Ensure the commitment of all levels of GOV to
political factors                                    the management and control of public finance
                                                     as an strategic tool
Stakeholders not providing input into the            Extensive training and direct technical
process of implementation                            assistance to the ministries were expected to
                                                     help the implementation. Incentives to entities
                                                     to adopt reforms in order to increase their
                                                     influence over the design and execution of their
                                                     own budgets
Management and staff of sector institutions fail     A comprehensive training program would help
to internalize changes generated by the new          adopting the new financial management
strategy                                             practices. GOV had identified the strategy as a
                                                     way to "put the house in order." Counterpart
                                                     teams in each executing agency would be
                                                     trained to facilitate project implementation

    c) Adequacy of participatory processes.

The primary beneficiaries which included centralized and decentralized public administration,
National Congress, and other donors collaborated with the Bank in the preparation of the project.
Other key stakeholders such as academic institutions were consulted during project preparation.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken, as
applicable)

Project activities were implemented within the political, economic and institutional changes of
Venezuela after 1999 which         did not affect the accomplishment of the PDO but required
adjustments to certain components:

    i.       GOV promoted the structural transformation of public sector by giving priority to the
             role of the State in society as reflected in legislation             (Ley Orgánica de la
             Administración Financiera del Sector Público ­ LOAFSP- (2000) , Ley Orgánica de
             la Administración Pública (2001), Ley Orgánica de Planificación (2001), Ley de
             Estatuto de la Función Pública (2002), Ley contra la Corrupción (2003), Ley
             Orgánica de la Contraloría General de la República y del Sistema Nacional de
             Control Fiscal (2001)), as well as in the creation of special purpose funds, social
             programs (Misiones), and new ministerial offices.

    ii.      This change process generated a high rotation of staff throughout the public
             administration. For instance, from 2000 to 2006 MOF had five different Ministers
             and the project had three Directors. This generated a natural delay in the contracting
             processes and product delivery. Likewise, in the interim the project lost consultants
             with broad experience and professional qualification who could not be replaced.




                                                    8

    iii.      The previous project (IBRD-Ln. No. 3225) delivered SIGECOF's information and
              communications technology (ITC) platform to the National Accountancy Office
              (ONCOP) to be implemented at the national level and key consultants became
              ONCOP staff. However, this application was not able to fulfill its function as it
              lacked of technical skills needed for the integration of financial management systems
              (budget, accounting, treasury, public credit). As a consequence, ONCOP was not able
              to produce financial statements since 2001 and the structure and content of budget
              classifiers and account plans was not conducive to the implementation of an
              integrated system of financial administration.

    iv.       This project had to redesign SIGECOF's conceptual and functional models and
              promote the building of a new platform at the national level as well as the design of
              new classifiers and account plans to meet the requirements of a modern financial
              administration. This situation delayed the results expected in terms of the
              implementation of SIGECOF at the decentralized levels.

The Bank conducted a Midterm Review (MTR) in 2002, and assessed the progress on project
components and the prevailing implementation issues. Based on the recommendations of the
MTR, the Loan Agreement was amended in order to: (i) enable the project to benefit from the
advanced information technology that had become available after project approval; and (ii)
slightly reorient the activities by narrowing the project scope to focus on the financial
management module and capacity building of MOF in terms of de-concentrated agencies. This
amendment also aimed to make the financial management system sustainable in other institutions
and resources were provided to train the trainers which would help sustaining the roll-out in these
institutions.

The following factors affected project implementation:

Factors outside government control or implementation agency

    · ITC Constraints. The SIGECOF's ITC platform delivered as a final product by previous
         project - was only operating for budget expenditures execution and payment orders. It did
         not meet basic requirements for the implementation of a modern integrated system of
         financial administration such as budget revenues execution and the relationship between
         the budgetary system with accounting systems, treasury and public credit.

    · New Government priorities. There was a substantial change in Venezuelan public sector
         during the first phase of project execution in terms of revised legislation (see section 2.2),
         creation of special purpose funds, social programs and new Ministries. Consequently,
         MOF with the Bank's support, decided to implement a new strategy regarding project
         management with special focus on the redesign of SIGECOF at the national level for it to
         become a new modern integrated system of financial administration able to match the
         new legislation with technological progress following the precedent of successful
         initiatives in the region. As a result, the implementation of SIGECOF in other
         decentralized levels was no longer a priority because the strengthening of financial
         administration of the national level was paramount.

    · Delay in project effectiveness. Originally, the project was to be approved just as the
         previous project closed in June 1999. While this project was approved, the closing date
         of the previous project was extended by six months to December 1999, to enable GOV to
         use remaining balances, and then again from December 1999 to June 2000 to help


                                                  9

       financial management activities related to recovery from natural disasters. GOV then
       decided to use the remaining funds before signing and activating the new operation.
       Consequently, 12 months passed between Board approval and project effectiveness,
       triggering a "project-at-risk" rating. The supervision of this project continued during this
       period (with missions in December 1999 and June 2000) but was reported in the Project
       Status Reports (PSRs) for the previous project and only vaguely cross-referenced in the
       PSRs for this project, generating the impression that the new project had not been
       supervised and that no appropriate action had been taken to resolve the delays in loan
       effectiveness.

   · Transition in task teams. In mid to end-2000, a restructuring took place in the Bank's
       Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) Region that affected the supervision of the
       project. The entire task team for the project turned over. The Country Department was
       abolished, the Venezuela program began to be managed from Mexico City, and sector
       management changed in August 2000. These changes complicated the transition of task
       teams and the maintenance of the project documentation. There was no formal handover
       to the new task team; briefings and project records were not transferred systematically.
       No overlapping missions took place. A mission by the new Country Director and Task
       Team Leader (TTL) in January 2001 and a full supervision mission in April 2001
       returned supervision activities to regular operations. Communications systems between
       the Bank and the Borrower improved, and issues such as an overdue audit report were
       addressed. Procurement of essential goods and services started at an accelerated pace.


Factors subject to government control or implementation agency

   · High Turnover of MOF authorities and project staff. During execution, the project had
       five different Ministers of Finance and four Project Managers. This high rotation of
       authorities meant sudden changes in policy direction and delays in the design and
       operation of key products. There was also some lack of ownership on the side of certain
       Ministers. The same happened in the Ministry of Planning and Development (MPD) and
       in some beneficiary ministries there was also a high rotation of counterpart personnel.
       These facts led to delays in the timely provision of counterpart funding which in turn
       contributed in slowing down procurement activities.

   · Lags in procurement schedules. The overall slowdown in procurement was due mainly to
       the high turnover of project staff. On the procurement of the ITC system, the invitation to
       submit proposals for the monitoring module was published by the PCU about 17 months
       after receiving the Bank's no objection. This was because, after a change in project
       manager, the new team stopped the process until they found time to analyze the process
       background and justification. With this substantial delay, some of the firms included in
       the short list declined to submit proposals and the team of one of the two firms that
       submitted proposals varied.

   · Deviations in procurement processes. There were also some deviations in procurement
       procedures. Selection of individual consultants was not fully made in accordance with the
       Bank's Guidelines that mandate comparison of qualifications of at least three candidates.
       Further, the procurement of ITC systems was initially consolidated in two processes.
       However, to accommodate a more systematic approach to implementation, the Borrower
       decided to procure the systems in three separate processes which required extra time.



                                                10

         Finally, the project Procurement Committee was replaced by the Bidding Committee of
         MOF at the end of 2005.        This decision delayed the execution of the 2005-2006
         Procurement Plan because of the lack of experience of the new committee with Bank
         Procurement Rules.

    · Lag in disbursement schedules. During its first phase, the project had very low
         disbursements (less than 25% until end 2003). However, as a result of project
         streamlining and strategic planning in 2004, disbursements improved considerably to
         reach 80% of the Loan balance (after cancellations) by the closing date. According to a
         national budget law, for year 2003 the project could not disburse more than US$1.2
         million. This amount was not sufficient to finance the US$5.75 millions originally
         estimated for that year. PCU requested and obtained an additional US$4.5 million to
         finance the shortfall. Delays in the activation of the special account in BANDES also
         contributed in slowing down disbursements.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E design.

Monitoring of project execution was to be undertaken by PCU. The Bank would also monitor
project implementation through periodic supervision missions. PCU would provide the Bank with
an annual work plan no later than June 30 of the preceding year starting in 1999. Annual reviews
of the project would be carried out no later than July 31 of each year, starting in July 31, 2000. A
MTR would be conducted by July 31, 2001 to assess progress in meeting agreed targets, review
the impact of the implementation of SIGECOF and to identify required adjustment to project
implementation plans.

M&E implementation. Appropriate data was actually collected using standard collection
methods developed by the project. The quality of data was rated satisfactory by the Bank
supervision mission.

M&E utilization. The data collected was used by GOV and the Bank to inform decision-making
and resource allocation. The sustainability of the M&E arrangements is guaranteed by GOV
decision to utilize and strengthen the existing M&E systems beyond the Closing Date.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

There were no deviations or waivers from the Bank safeguards and fiduciary policies and
procedures during the implementation of the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Transition arrangements. Even though no follow-on project is currently envisioned, GOV has
assumed full ownership of the project and ensured its future operation. Most of the key
consultants hired under the project have remained as permanent MOF staff for follow-up
activities financed within the GOV's own resources. MOF is also interested in continuing to
receive specialized technical assistance from the Bank for the strengthening of financial



                                                11

administration instruments to give greater transparency and efficiency to the Venezuelan public
sector. The Bank may contribute to sustaining benefit, by further monitoring of the project's
operation from Caracas country office as a way to maintain dialogue with MOF on a possible
follow-on project.

Lessons incorporated in the arrangements for post-completion operation. Based on the lessons
learned from the project, GOV has adopted the following measures for post-completion
operation:

     · To hire key project consultants as regular MOF staff
     · To maintain project structure as a part of the line structure of MOF

List of performance indicators. The following set of monitoring and evaluation indicators
developed under the project will be used as part of the GOV's regular payment systems
operations:

    · Increased cost effectiveness of selected public agencies' operational programs
    · Fiscal savings resulting from streamlined budgets in the main central and decentralized
         units
    · SIGECOF implemented in deconcentrated administrative units
    · Integration of the existing public debt registry and control systems with the central
         accounting system and development of a uniform system of management and control of
         financial operations
    · Establishment of a performance indicators system to monitor the effectiveness of public
         management

Suggested priority and optimum timing of any future impact evaluation. An impact evaluation is
recommended for 2009.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objective was clear and relevant to the country's financial management needs. It helped
GOV to design and implement a comprehensive and integrated strategy to manage and control
public resources. This strategy enhanced the capacity and productivity levels of MOF, equipped
MOF with the tools necessary to play the lead role in promoting efficient and responsive
management of public resources. At both the national and sub-national levels, those agencies
implementing the strategy also benefited from increased capacity and productivity. As mentioned
in Section 6.1, the project was also consistent with the CAS for Venezuela.

The project aimed to continue developing an integrated financial management strategy across
government levels by extending the satisfactory experience of the financial management
component of the Pre-investment and Institutional Development Loan (PIID) which had
established the legal, institutional and ICT infrastructure basis to improve public financial
management in MOF. The project aimed to help GOV improve its public finance administration
and fiscal discipline by providing accurate information in the management of financial and non-
financial public resources.




                                                    12

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 2)

Moderately Satisfactory. The project fulfilled its main objective in terms of : (a) strengthening
financial administration in the Venezuelan public sector, working with the core units of MOF in
the modernization of financial management; (b) developing tools in critical areas of Venezuelan
financial management that can be applied over a long period of time; (c) providing technical
answers to the various levels of GOV, given the new realities of the public sector, such as special
funds, social programs and new sector ministries; and (d) incorporating the project within the
organizational structure of MOF. However, as extra-budgetary public expenditure also increased
significantly during project implementation, the overall achievement of the project development
objective should be considered moderately satisfactory.             2




The following specific achievements show a direct correlation between the project's outputs and
outcomes:

     · The project achieved an increased cost effectiveness ratio in beneficiary Ministries and
           other agencies at the national level in terms of managerial skills acquired and budget
           classifiers and account plans developed that guarantee a better computer-based registry
           and bring more transparent information to effectively support the decision making-
           process of public executives and allow fiscal controls on real-time operations. The
           project also financed the decentralization of SIGECOF to local entities and its full
           application to 23 central agencies.

     · The project was instrumental in creating the legal, institutional and ICT infrastructure
           bases to improve public finance management in MOF.

     · The project dramatically modernized public finance methods and processes, linked
           central agencies and sub-national governments to an information network, and provided
           the technical capacity needed to analyze financial information and better allocate
           resources. In addition, national budget programming and execution improved, as more
           accurate information allowed decision-makers to plan for the use of public resources.

     · The SIGECOF comprised four basic types of reforms: (i) normative, including legal and
           policy reforms; (ii) institutional, including organizational culture changes; (iii)
           managerial, involving the modernization of methods and procedures of each
           management function; and (iv) instrumental, focusing on the development of related ICT
           systems and complementary tools.

           Within this framework, the project facilitated integration of GOV's core financial
           administration systems (budget, accounting, public debt, treasury, and internal control)
           together with personnel expenditure management, management of non-financial assets,



2 For instance, to manage the windfall revenues, several funds have been established outside the national budget--
including FONDEN, which received $8.5 billion in 2005, or 6 percent of GDP. Similarly, a number of the
Government's social programs (Misiones) are being financed through the State Oil Company (PDVSA) technically a
separate private corporation.




                                                          13

          and results-based planning and evaluation of public expenditure. The objective of
          improved oversight of public resource management through timely and reliable financial
          and physical output information on which to base budgetary decision-making was
          reached.

Other major outcomes were the following:


Public Sector Management. The Venezuelan Public administration is now functioning with more
transparent and timely information for decision-making processes. Fiscal controls by CGR and
social control by the community have also been facilitated and will support the fight against
corruption.

The project was expected to have a major impact in the way public administration operated in
Venezuela. A comprehensive strategy was developed to enhance GOV's capacity for a more
efficient, transparent, and accountable public administration. The adequate transfer of knowledge
generated by project implementation would also improve the technical capacity and quality of
public sector personnel. The results-based evaluation of public expenditure would improve the
allocation of these resources producing more equitable and sustainable outcomes. The project
outcome will directly support the sustainability and transparency of the reforms by funding a
social communication campaign, designed to promote the availability to the public of information
produced by the integrated financial system.

Private Sector Development. The systematization of the National Assets inventory system
designed by the project is providing the private sector with transparent and real time access to
GOV's database of estimated mid- and long-term purchases and specific phases of the bidding
process (proposal, evaluation, award). This will allow the development of the private sector based
on procurement activities with the country's main economy agent.

Anti-corruption impact: The project generated significant anti-corruption outcomes by promoting
transparency in the allocation of public resources. For instance, the development of criteria for the
management of non-financial assets and the implementation of a system for its registry and
control provided a solid basis for increased accountability in the public sector.

3.3 Efficiency (Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least
cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, Financial Rate of Return, and Cost Effective
Analysis are not applicable. However, the indicators selected for project evaluation show that the
impacts and outcomes were achieved efficiently and effectively.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on the discussion given in Sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, the overall outcome is rated as
moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)




                                                    14

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impact. Even though the project was not directly targeted to poverty alleviation, it
facilitated GOV to use resources more efficiently, thus enhancing the impact of public social
policies. Also the project has contributed significantly to strengthen MOF, and established an
adequate framework to increase the transparency and accountability of public revenues and
expenses. Such framework would help improve overall governance environment with its known
positive effect on development and poverty reduction. Transparency, accountability and
governance quality are determining factors for the performance of resource-rich countries like
Venezuela. However, the project's overall impact on this side may be undermined by growing
extra-budget funds.

Gender Aspects. Starting in 2007, the National Budget and the decentralized entities' budget will
be gender sensitive. Each budget classifier developed under the project includes parameters to
facilitate the incorporation of this new approach.

Social Development. The tools developed by the project would allow GOV to track its social
expenditures and the way income is allocated to social programs. For example, the new
SIGECOF has defined parameters to guarantee de-concentration and decentralization of the
financial administration. This would mean that the information can get to the levels where the
services are provided (hospitals and schools among others) and where the communities
participate, as the Constitution and the law mandate for the formulation of budgets and the social
control of the public management.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term
capacity and institutional development)

The project has contributed significantly to strengthen MOF, MPD and other ministries. More
broadly, budget classifiers and accounts plan replaced outdated tools and became key elements of
the long-term project impact for the institutional development of the Venezuelan public sector.
The new instruments of financial administration have been designed with cutting-edge
technology, thus their application should be sustainable over time. SIGECOF will be fully
implemented within the national administration by 2007 and subsequently in other decentralized
levels together with the System of Financial Management for Human Resources (SIGEFIRRHH)
and the Integrated System of Goods, Works, and Services (SIBOS). MOF has also developed the
capacity to lead reform process in central agencies and has tools for states and municipalities.

 The institutional development of MOF will serve as the focal point of all public finance
 functions. It is supported by the development of internal information and communications
 systems, a Help Desk for users, video conferencing and e-learning facilities, and an integrated
 information database (data warehouse). Institutional readiness for the new ICT systems was
 prepared through reforms of budgetary processes and human resource capacity-building.

The sustainability of the institutional changes generated by the project is highly-likely because:

    a) Project structure was incorporated into MOF organizational structure, including most
         consultants and administrative staff. Other consultants were incorporated into ONT,
         ONCOP and ONCP. MOF authorities, at various levels, were highly satisfied with the
         value added provided by this project and were committed to continue implementation and
         sustain achievements as well as to request technical support from the Bank after closing.



                                                 15

   b) Budget classifiers and account plans prepared by this project with MOF and MPD were
        formally approved and implemented in the central administration and decentralized
        entities for the 2006 budget. The budget for 2007 will be prepared with the same tools
        thereby ensuring further project sustainability in the years ahead.

   c) The integration of the General Matrix Conversion and the National System of Treasury
        with SIGECOF by 2007 will allow the integrated operation of financial administration
        that was shaped by the project at the national level. Pursuant to ONCOP's decision, the
        same implementation will be replicated within States, municipalities and other
        decentralized entities.

   d) SIGEFIRRHH's implementation is still in progress within the central administration and
        its line ministries. The sustainability of this module is assured by its broad dissemination
        throughout the public administration.

   e) A new assets legislation is being considered by the National Assembly. In the interim,
        SIBOS started to carry out pilot implementations, was in high demand by the institutions,
        especially by autonomous services, and its integration with SIGECOF has been ensured.

   f) Performance indicators developed by the project and ONAPRE are currently being tested.
        Its effective use depends on the Executive and the National Assembly's decisions to
        follow a results-based approach for performance of public institutions. The new budget
        approach will require government agencies to work towards the achievements evaluation
        indicators.

   g) MPD and ONAPRE New Stage tools for budget formulation and SNIP, follow the
        guidelines developed by the project and ensures its long-term sustainability.

   h) ONCP will develop an electronic connection among SIGADE, ARTEMISA with
        SIGECOF in accordance with the conceptual design advanced by the project.

   i) The data warehouse under implementation in MOF constitutes a substantial tool for the
        decision making process throughout various administrative layers of MOF.

   j) The human resources development component of the project has had a great impact on
        the personnel connected with public financial administration and it is being replicated
        long-distance, with software applications developed by the project.

   k) SIGECOF information is processed in real time and from a single database, providing
        effective check and balances for transparency purposes in the use of public funds, and the
        enforcement of fiscal control.

   l) The strengthening of MOF and the application of modern tools, constitute a part of the e-
        development of the Venezuelan public administration. The design of the new SIGECOF
        is based on financial information reaching the operational instances which provide the
        services, where the community can participate in the budget planning and exercise social
        controls in the use of public resources.

GOV has expressed interest in continued Bank assistance in specific areas of the modernization
process of its financial administration.



                                                  16

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project's products have provided the basis of a modern financial administration. They include
the best technical resources available in the region, and meet the highest standards in terms of
State efficiency, specifically greater transparency in public management, and anti-corruption
efforts.

The greater unexpected benefit from the project was that it fostered joint work among the central
offices of MOF (ONAPRE, ONCOP, ONT, ONCP) against a natural tendency to work in
isolation which generated inconsistencies, duplications and reduced efficiency in the
administration of public finances. Improved communications and joint work between MOF and
MPD were also unintended results.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

There was no Beneficiary Assessment on this project.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

During its last two years the project became a leader of financial administration reforms by
integrating the efforts of various institutions within and outside MOF. However, there is a high
risk that after project completion, the reform process may lose some of its technical support and
sector leadership, as a result of which further reforms could become slower. In order to counter
this risk, leadership at the highest levels of MOF is critical and the fact that the Minister and his
immediate advisors have been involved in the continuation of project-supported reforms suggests
that leadership will be forthcoming.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory.

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of
project design, GOV priorities and balanced major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial,
economic, and institutional, including procurement and financial management. The project was
consistent with the GOV's development priorities and the Bank's CAS. In addition, major risk
factors and lessons learned from other public sector projects were considered and incorporated
into the project design.

The PAD considered the first stage of implementation of SIGECOF completed, because rules and
procedures had been finalized, the legal aspects implemented and the new financial


                                                      17

administration system developed. As a result, the new project would finance the second stage of
the strategy as the implementation of SIGECOF into the Deconcentrated Administrative Units
(UADs) at a national level and the third stage (reaching States, municipalities and decentralized
entities).

Nevertheless, in fact the first stage had not concluded, not only due to the legal and institutional
changes that occurred later, but because the SIGECOF informatic applications had not been tested
in real operations. As stated before, the new project had to assume that responsibility, as well as
the impact of the changes produced by the new legal and institutional framework.

Irrespective of the above constraints, quality at entry can be considered satisfactory. A not-fully
conducive environment was the result of variables outside the control of the task team, mostly
associated with a change in administration.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

A Quality of Supervision of Risky Project Review was carried out in December 2001, by a
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) panel. The panel rated the overall supervision of the project as
satisfactory and noted:

         "The project has had few implementation problems, as a successor to an operation in
         which the new public sector financial management system was successfully
         introduced. The delay in effectiveness had no material bearing on implementation of the
         program, which continues under this operation.

         The Bank's response to the Government's decision to delay loan signing and effectiveness
         was reasonable and did not adversely affect the achievement of the development
         objectives. On the contrary, the program progressed well and working relations with the
         client              were               close              and               collaborative.

         The supervision effort was broadly satisfactory, with two shortcomings: the quality of
         project reporting, and the management of the staffing transition in the fall of 2000. The
         major problems were internal to the Bank, which were not dealt with quickly or
         effectively, in the Panel's judgment. The single greatest problem in supervision of this
         project was the unsatisfactory transition between task teams late in 2000..."

The ICR team agrees with the QAG findings and rating. The Bank's performance during the
implementation of the project was satisfactory. Sufficient budget and staff resources were
allocated, and the project was closely supervised and monitored from the field during the last year.
The task team prepared Aide-Memoires regularly, and discussed and resolved with GOV and
PCU project implementation issues in a timely manner. The Implementation Status Reports
(ISRs) realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of
development objectives and project implementation.

Fiduciary aspects were properly dealt with by the task team. Consultants based in Caracas were
assigned some aspects of supervision and proved extremely helpful as they became closely
involved in the day-to-day operations and provided the PCU with timely guidance and support.




                                                18

The Bank's procurement specialists worked with PCU staff to explain the rules and procedures to
be applied during project implementation, with regard to procurement of goods and works, and
selection of consultants, based on the Loan and Project Agreement. The overall quality of
procurement documentation and processes remained satisfactory, and compliance with agreed
procurement schedules remained high, as evidenced in the latest ex-post review conducted in
August 2006.

The Bank was slow to respond to some changes in the GOV priorities in particular during the
2000 internal transition. It could also have taken a more proactive lead in the areas of
transparency and accountability, as the tools designed by the project were ideal to that end.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

Based on the Bank performance during lending and supervision phases as discussed in Section
5.1, overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

GOV maintained its commitment during major part of implementation, in spite of the
uncertainties associated with the political crisis of 2002-2004. The strength of this commitment to
improve financial management was shown by: (i) the rapid and satisfactory implementation of
SIGECOF I; (ii) the proposed plan of integrating SIGECOF II (deconcentration) and III
(decentralization) in one phase in order to accelerate the assistance and implementation of the
strategy at the sub-national level and within autonomous entities; (iii) the enactment of
Presidential Decree No. 570 (02-23-05), which established the SIGECOF system as the main tool
for implementing the public financial management reform; (iv) submission to Congress of the
SIGECOF draft law on financial management prepared by the project; and (v) an explicit request
from the Government to the Bank to expedite the implementation of the proposed loan.

MOF undertook the reforms to improve the management and control of public finances, of which
SIGECOF was the centerpiece. The second stage, supported by the project, was programmed to
broaden the coverage, and transform and integrate the system of financial management at the
central, subnational, decentralized and deconcentrated levels. This required strong institutional
capacity within the central administration, MOF and PCU, as well as commitment in the regional
governments and municipalities, and the autonomous agencies. In addition, the system users were
involved in the definition of the products and received training, with the valuable byproduct of
professional development and inter-institutional coordination in their respective areas.

A number of GOV officials were assigned to work on this project. The Minister and Vice
Minister were themselves involved in implementation. MOF had a strong team which had a good
understanding of the Bank policies and procedures. Substantial counterpart resources were
allocated to sustain the program. Frequent turnover at the Minister's level may have occasioned
some delays as each Minister wished to instill a new approach to ongoing reforms. Overall, the
project retained strong high-level support and could accomplish most of its objectives.



                                                  19

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating:
Ministerio de Finanzas              Moderately Satisfactory.

Implementing Agency                 Performance
PCU                                 The performance of PCU was moderately satisfactory. The
                                    PCU was responsible for overseeing the implementation of
                                    project component and subcomponents and establishing the
                                    links for further coordination with other agencies (e.g. OCP,
                                    OCEPRE and MPD), as needed, for the effective delivery of
                                    component outputs. The previous experience of the members
                                    of PCU proved highly valuable to the project. For most of the
                                    implementation, the PCU was run by personnel of high
                                    technical capacity and motivation, with a successful record
                                    from the past implementation of SIGECOF I.

                                    PCU had a Venezuelan project director and professionals
                                    assigned to oversee central project activities. Each agency
                                    implementing SIGECOF had management teams to oversee
                                    its implementation. PCU provided more direct support to
                                    teams in smaller agencies and to weaker sub-national
                                    governments.

                                    In the beginning of project implementation, the PCU had
                                    difficulties to meet the Bank's financial management and
                                    procurement standards. Towards the end of implementation
                                    the PCU had acquired the capacity to manage the project, and
                                    was particularly effective during the extensions of the
                                    Closing Date. Transition to regular operations will be
                                    facilitated by the permanent hiring of most of PCU staff by
                                    MOF.

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In light of the Government and PCU performance as discussed in Section 5.1, the overall
performance of the Borrower is rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned both project-specific and of wide general application
                      (                                                     )

Positive Lessons

     · The implementation of financial administration reform projects benefit from the support
        from high-level political actors within Ministries of Finance. The reform of public
        structures around sensible issues as transparency and accountability, should also receive
        technical assistance from international and national experts. These projects should be able
        to implement sustainable reforms that cannot easily be reverted, as they become
        embedded in permanent legislation. (general applicability)



                                                 20

  · In spite of difficult political and economic circumstances, these projects have high
      chances of survival because of the strong interest of the government to obtain and utilize
      on reliable information. Being a strictly technical matter, this is an area that can be
      isolated from political crises.

  · Flexibility during design and implementation is essential to better reflect variance in the
      government priorities and needs; it will allow the project to respond to these changes.
      Flexibility is all the more important for a highly technical project such as this, because of
      rapid changes in ICT technology which could not be envisioned during project
      preparation. A simple design with an incremental approach is of the essence. (general
      applicability)

  · Building adequate capacity in the Ministry of Finance is a pre-requisite for rolling-out
      these projects and promoting changes in other institutions. It is the basis for an
      incremental approach that supports rapid delivery and subsequent demonstration effects
      that help to pursue reforms in weaker agencies.

  · It is critical to build into the project design a mechanism for ownership. The role of
      participating institutions, and incentives for change should be clearly defined and laid out.
      The benefits for the institutions, its officials and its users should be clear right from
      inception. (general applicability).

  · Time-bound action plans and legal remedies are basic tools during a restructuring process.
      When a project restructuring is needed, the Bank should agree with the Government on a
      time-bound action plan, with specific benchmarks and milestones, in order to avoid
      unproductive discussions.

  · Proactivity is required at all stages of project design and implementation. Whenever
      changes occur at the level of a minister or vice minister of the executing agency, the Task
      Team should take the initiative to approach the new authorities, clarify any doubts that
      they might have about the project, and make special efforts to involve and commit them
      to the process.

Negative Lessons

  · Wherever country, sector and project leadership change, transitions have to be managed
      smoothly, sensitively, and pro-actively, and with the ultimate objective of providing
      uninterrupted services to the client. (general applicability)

  · Bank management should ensure the quality of documentation of Bank operations and
      the effective transfer of knowledge and the records from one task team to another. Abrupt
      transitions may have a negative impact in the quality of supervision (general
      applicability)

  · Political changes have considerable impact on project design and implementation. The
      Bank should be more sensitive to the political changes taking place in a country (such as
      a new government, or ministerial changes in an implementing institution, in order to
      analyze the implications, in particular when implementation has not yet started.




                                               21

     · Project approval or signing around the time of a Presidential election or inauguration may
        be counterproductive even for technically sound operations. In case a change in the
        policy approach is likely, the Bank should assess the risk that the new Administration
        may become suspicious of Bank's agreements with the prior Administration; this risk is
        even higher when the incoming Government has publicly announced a radical departure
        from the economic and social policies of the previous one. Project approval or signing
        around that time may delay or compromise implementation.

     · Frequent or sudden changes in Task Manager may also be counterproductive. While the
        continuity of task manager may assist in the generation of sound technical proposals at
        the design stage, the frequent changes at the time of supervision may erode the quality of
        the constant dialogue and follow up required for project implementation to proceed
        smoothly.

     · Participation and consultation devices are required at all stages of the project cycle.
        Participation and consultation should not be exhausted during preparation. For State
        reform projects, it is essential to establish consultation and participation mechanisms with
        stakeholders external to the implementing agency, in order to stimulate the internal
        decision-making process.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

See Annex 7

(b) Cofinanciers

NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

NA




                                                   22

   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a)     Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent) (Total rows and percentage
   column will be calculated by the system)

         Components                  Appraisal Estimate      Actual /Latest Estimate           Percentage of
                                         (US$ million)             (US$ million)                Appraisal
Deconcentration and
Decentralization of SIGECOF                  7.1                         3,68                  51,90

Registry, Administration, and
Control of National Non-                     4.5                         0,77                  17,13
financial Assets.
Human Resources Financial
Management and Control.                      2.9                         1,83                  62,98

Rationalization and Planning
of Public Expenditure.                       0.8                         0,3                   37,20

Reform and Institutional
Development                                  0.8                         1,93                  241,08

Project Management                           4.4                         3,60                  90,07
          Total Baseline Cost
                 (US$ million)              23.8                        12,11                  50,88

Front-end fee                                0.2                         0,18                  97,51
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
           Total Project Costs              24.0                        17,51                  72,95
Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD only)
    Total Financing Required                24.0                        17,51                  72,95


   (b)     Co-financing (The appraisal estimate will be pre-populated from the Financing data in
   SAP/AUS; Percentage of Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)
                                                 Appraisal          Actual/Latest
    Source of Funds           Type of                                                  Percentage of
                             Financing            Estimate             Estimate
                                               (US$ million)        (US$ million)        Appraisal

    [Government]                                     4.0                  5,22           130,50

    [IBRD/IDA]                                      20.0               12,29              61,43
    [Donor A]           [WB-
                        administered TF]
    [Donor B]           [Parallel                   24.0               17,51              72,95
                        financing]




                                                    23

Annex 2. Outputs by components

Component 1: Decentralization and Dispersion of SIGEGOF Responsibilities

Redesign of SIGECOF

The authorities of the National Budget Office (ONAPRE) are satisfied with the project
contribution to the achievement of MOF objectives of strengthening and modernizing the public
budget system. One of the main Project achievements was in the process of formulation of the
National Budget and the Decentralization Entities Budget. The project supported the
establishment of a new project-based budget methodology, and the design of a new budget
classification system. The previous classifiers, which were in use for 20 years, were substituted
by a new system that ensures the operation of an integrated system of financial management
(budget, accounting, treasury, public credit) and guarantees its applicability to the entire public
budget (central administration, states and municipalities, decentralized entities and joint-
ventures). To create this new system, these classifiers were developed through the joint work of
MOF, MPD, and other institutions (like SENIAT, insurance companies, sectoral ministries).

The 2007 budget was formulated under the same methodology, its consistency and effectiveness
demonstrated after a year of testing, now known as the "New Stage" tool, shared by ONAPRE
and MPD. It is now a robust instrument to follow-up investment projects, and it has taken many
elements from the National System of Public Investment (Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública
- SNIP), an application that the project had developed for MPD.

As provided by the LOAFSP, the annual budgets will be based on a tri-annual budget framework.
With the establishment of project-based budgeting systems, the PAD expectations with respect to
the integration of public investment plans with the annual budget were achieved.

The project also contributed to: a) the design and development, together with ONCOP, of the new
Accounts Plan that is integrated with the budgetary classifiers and guarantees its application in all
the non-financial public sector. Application in the states and municipalities will occur after
amendments are made to the legal rules and procedures; b) design the New Model of Financial
Administration of the Venezuelan Public Sector and the Macro-Functional Model of e-SIGECOF
which now should be adapted to the system of project-based budgeting; (c) the development of
the Unique Matrix of Conversion of the Integrated System of Financial Management and its
informational management, which will convert SIGECOF into one of the most modern systems of
financial administration in the Region; and (d) the support of ONCOP in the development of the
application of the new SIGECOF, based on the model of financial administration.

The SIGECOF applications represent a significant improvement in overall financial management.
They operate based on a single database, eliminating the previous scheme of replicating
information that generated many inconsistencies in the reports of budget execution. Budget
execution is conducted in various stages (commitment, accrual and payment) which make the
system much more efficient. According to ONCOP by June 2006 nearly 60% of the national
budget had been executed, compared to 40% execution by the same date for the previous year.

The efficient operation of the new SIGECOF relies on a help-desk that provides services to
distant users, operating in a similar form to a banking call center. The project equipped ONCOP
with the ICT infrastructure for the help-desk system and signed a long-term contract with the
software provider. Currently, the help-desk is operating under ONCOP with 25 employees and


                                                24

will reach 50 when it provides its maximum level of service. The new SIGECOF will be
integrated electronically with the SIGEFIRRHH and SIBOS by early 2007.

The applications of the new SIGECOF contain the module for expenditure execution. The module
for revenue execution by ONT was expected to enter into operation by late 2006, and will be
subsequently extended to the entire Central Government.

The operation of the new SIGECOF in the Public Ministry has been quite successful. Gathering
data from 30 administrative units at the national level. SIGECOF provided better operational
response and generating a number of reports of spending execution. The institution executed
more than 50% of its budget in June 2006, compared to 30% by the same month in fiscal year
2005.

For the implementation of SIGECOF, the Project provided the beneficiary institutions with a total
of 1,709 ICT equipment, strengthening ONCOP with 146 units. It also conducted eight
workshops on the Organic Law of Financial Administration for the Public Sector (LOAFSP),
training 399 public employees over 56 hours.

These efforts complemented the technical assistance provided under the project in order to
complete the applications of the new SIGECOF. At the same time, the ICT development was
accompanied by the necessary administrative re-engineering (simplification of processes,
electronic signature) to ensure greater impact.

Implementation of SIGECOF in 160 Deconcentrated Administrative Units (UADs)

The target to implement SIGECOF in 160 UAD UADs was easily reached, since at the close of
fiscal year 2005, 321 of 576 existing UAD UADs were connected directly. For fiscal year 2006,
with the change in budgeting techniques, the number UAD UADs has reached 1,360 and will
continue to grow as each Ministry establishes new UAD UADs to exercise full control of its new
resources. Budget executing units wish to implement SIGECOF even after the project closure,
thereby generating additional pressures on the GOV's own resources to continue with Project
reforms.

Development of a new system of Administration of the National Treasury

The project supported the modernization of the treasury system through the participation of ONT
in the development of tools to: (i) consolidate and operate the Single Account; (ii) filtering the
database for the Treasury; (iii) establishing the module of Control of Banking Accounts of the
public sector and registration of financial instruments; consolidating the payment system through
connectivity between the ONT and the Venezuelan Central Bank (BCV) and commercial banks;
(iv) establishing the module of non-budgetary payments for ONCP, the module of payments for
external debt, the system of financial investment and the module of internal revenues, which will
be integrated, in electronic form, with SENIAT and the banking system. It is expected that there
will be greater integration with other systems of financial administration, but even if ONCOP
does not make further progress, the Treasury will continue the development of systems consistent
with its own needs and priorities.

With the assistance of a team of young, motivated professionals in various disciplines, in just a
few years ONT has achieved a high level of modernization and adaptation to the growing
requirements of GOV for new tools in the administration of public funds. ONT has also benefited
from the data warehouse developed by the project, applying it gradually to the various modules of


                                                 25

the system.

Integration between the registry and control of the public debt and SIGECOF

The ONCP has already contracted with the UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development) the establishment of the 5.3 version of the System of Administration and Control
of Debt (SIGADE). In addition, they have worked with UNCTAD in the design of information
applications that will guarantee an automatic link between the administration tools of public debt
and SIGECOF, for which ONCP is developing a table of information requirements.

In addition, ONCP has put into effect the Platform of Electronic Negotiation of Public Titles
(ARTEMISA), to facilitate the buying and selling of internal debt in the national market. In July
2005 the pilot tests began, with the support of engineers from the Ministry of Science and
Technology. That application may be integrated with SIGADE and SIGECOF for its optimal
utilization. The integrated applications could be available by 2007, substantively increasing the
efficiency of SIGECOF and the integration of the public credit system, treasury, and accounting.

Although the goals established by PAD ­ integration among the public debt control and
SIGECOF- were not fully achieved they are still achievable by ONCOP. Delays were due to the
continuous turnover of authorities and staff of ONCP and the lack of a full time specialized
consultant for component implementation.

The ONCP has advanced in the systemization of its administrative internal processes, and by June
2006 begun implementing project "Alejandría" project of file digitalization and electronic
processing of public debt transactions.

Development of a system for the registry, control, budget and accounting of projects financed by
multilateral financial institutions

The Project made efforts to find the best tool to administer and control projects financed by
international institutions. It conducted six pilot projects and searched an international firm
specialized in this technology, arriving at the point of selecting the company and obtaining the
Bank's no objection. However, in the context of a restructuring of the institution, the authorities
of ONCP did not prioritize this issue and finally decided to develop their own software. This
software focused exclusively on the requirements of ONCP for following-up loan disbursements,
advances and payments, with the intention of integrating them with SIGADE. This was a
different focus from the original project design which considered developing a tool for
administering projects and complying with the integration requirements of SIGECOF while
providing information to MPD, ONCP, and financing organizations.

Design and implementation of a data-warehouse for MOF

The establishment of the data-warehouse was successful, with the ONT's Single Account and the
various system modules of the Treasury gradually incorporated into the system. Similarly, the
data warehouse was used by the Financial Coordination of the State Office (CFE) of MOF, which
obtains information from 23 organizations of the public financial sector to support decision-
making and control processes. For example, this tool allowed identifying individuals that request
the same benefits from different organizations.

The same progress was reached with the Directorate of Statistics of MOF, ONCOP, ONCP,
ONAPRE, and other offices of MOF.


                                                26

This sub-component developed an intelligent data storage system for research purposes with tools
for modeling, scenarios, simulations, and forecasts. The project acquired the required software,
installed servers and tested the software with ONT, CFE, and ONCP, and trained 17 officials for
a total of 24 hours training, designed three-dimensional data spaces and created a data-mark in
beneficiary-agencies.

Promotion and implementation of SIGECOF in the decentralized public administration

SIGECOF in States and Municipalities

The project developed a conceptual model for States and municipalities, trained staff of 18 States
and 10 municipalities on that model, and the entered into cooperation agreements with 10 States
and 5 Municipalities. Facing the redesign of SIGECOF, the project contracted a company that
designed a local SIGECOF consistent with the new approach. This strategy was designed to
facilitate incorporation of SIGECOF at the local level so that the laws that affect financial
administration were enforced by States and Municipalities as well.

The PAD expected the participation of 80 entities (states, municipalities, and autonomous
agencies) in the implementation of SIGECOF's strategy during the years 2003 and 2004. These
goals were not achieved due to SIGECOF's redesign and implementation at the national level.
The project proposed a parallel track strategy but it was rejected by ONCOP authorities.

Overall Project progress regarding the implementation of new technologies for financial
administration by states and municipalities was not satisfactory because there was no political
support from local level. Project achievements were satisfactory only with respect to the
development of new methodologies of financial administration for States and Municipalities. For
this model to be implemented, however, strong political support was required but not present
during project execution.

A working group was established to exchange to exchange information with nearly 25 mayor
offices. It prepared norms for establishing SIGECOF at the local level as the Municipal Code
authorizes ONCOP to determine accounting systems in the municipalities. This system would
have close relationship with the National Contracting System which is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Light Industries that manages the National Registry of State Contractors. The project
trained 1,672 officials from States and Municipalities, through 31 events, for a total of 439
training hours.

SIGECOF in the decentralized entities

The project advanced the conceptual design of SIGECOF for decentralized entities by developing
operational manuals and a tailor-made system of budget formulation and execution including
modifications, advances and administrative allocations. It established 11 treasury processes in
decentralized entities and developed manuals for budget execution, as well as norms and
instructives for the preparation of financial statements of such entities.

In the subsequent phase, the project concentrated on the redesign of SIGECOF, and the priority
was to develop tools for the national administration for the not decentralized entities. Therefore, it
was not possible to achieve the goals set forth in the PAD.




                                                  27

Nevertheless, following the 2006 Budget, the system of budget classifiers and accounting plans
designed by the project has being applied to the decentralized entities. During the project period,
245 officials were trained in the decentralized agencies through 6 events for a total of 16 training
hours.

Component No. 2: Registry, Administration and Control of National Assets

The National Assets System includes procurement and administration modules for movable and
unmovable assets, and civil works. The project prepared the manuals for the registration and
execution of works, the management of assets, the registry of materials and supplies, and a
catalogue of goods and services. The data processing tool for the Integrated System of Goods,
Works and Services (SIBOS) has been installed in five pilot institutions (Ministries of Finance,
Education, Foreign Affairs, Infrastructure and in the Judiciary Executive Directorate). This
application has been tested, and civil servants of the pilot institutions have been trained. Its
integration with the new SIGECOF will be considered at a later stage. The project also made
progress in the national assets inventory system and a consultant prepared its methodology, rules,
and procedures.

In this regard, the project achieved the goals established in the PAD, since the Draft National
Assets Act is about to be approved by the authorities and the National Assembly while the
establishment of SIBOS in MOF and four other institutions is in the testing stage. The
methodology for the inventory of the National Assets is ready and is awaiting the decision to
proceed with implementation, through the creation of an Office of National Assets in MOF, as
provided by National Assets Act. The project trained 139 public officials, in 8 events for a total of
100 training hours.

Component No. 3: Administration and Financial Control of Human Resources

This component included two systems:

The System of Financial Management of Human Resources (SIGEFIRRHH) comprises processes
to record, monitor and control labor benefits that are awarded to GOV employees; and the module
of planning and development, that allows for the formulation of staff plans. This system is
integrated with SIGECOF.

The Integrated System of Public Employees (SITP) was designed for MPD so that it can
administer and process all the information of public administration employees, and comprises
three modules: (A) the staff module, which traces the relationship between the employees and the
public administration from appointment to retirement; (B) the staff planning module which allows
MPD to evaluate, approve, and control the application of public employee policies through the
staff plans of other public organizations; and (C) the integration module with SIGEFIRRHH.
MPD has evaluated the certification processes of this application and has already reviewed 67%
of its 49 steps. The system was presented to 1,028 officials and 1747 public officials were trained
for a total of 1,440 training hours.

The system was built based on GOV's directions regarding the use of free software which use the
same communication tools of ONCOP (a web server). These tools are designed to allow
Ministries to manage staff in their own decentralized entities, in the same way MPD does with
each ministry. SIGEFIRRHH was presented to ONAPRE which positively evaluated the system
and incorporated it into the 2007 Budget. The system gave a rapid response to ONAPRE which
had been instructed to program the 2007 Budget under an inputs and outputs system.


                                                28

The achievement of PAD's goals is satisfactory because allowed to integrate SIGEFIRRHH with
the 2007 budget. The Filing Module includes 910.476 workers in its database. The staff module
records 410.618 workers and 120 payrolls in parallel.

Component No. 4: Rationalization and Planning of Public Spending

The project completed various activities, such as the workshop on a "Multi-year Budget
Proposal" supported by the Office of Planning and Macroeconomic Analysis of MOF and experts
in fiscal discipline from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the development of a pilot
project on technical norms for registration, monitoring, and evaluation of public expenditures.

Performance evaluation has been taken seriously by Government. The National Assembly is
demanding that Ministries be accountable for resource management and are demanding use
result-based indicators, On the other hand, no less than 17 legal norms require performance
evaluation, particularly the laws against corruption. The MPD, in the area of short term planning,
is implementing a follow-up system with specific performance indicators.

In this area, the Ministry of Infrastructure (MINFRA) is one of the most advanced. A specialized
unit was created to conduct indicator follow-ups within the Ministry, as well as its dependent
entities. Internal information is processed monthly, every three months sent to MPD, and yearly
for the annual report of the Ministry. This follow-up system provides valuable information to the
mobile cabinets that the President of the Republic uses to understand regional needs and assess
the impact of the Government programs.

The Bank has suggested that these indicators be analyzed by other public agencies that perform
similar functions (for example, public investment in infrastructure), for the purpose of developing
standardized information at the national level. It also suggested comparing the indicators with
international standards, in order to expand the comparative analysis with measures produced by
similar regional institutions. ONAPRE acknowledged Project support for the organization and
maintenance of this system and expect to continue working with it throughout the public
administration.

The Project supported 37 courses and workshops for a total of 636 teaching hours, 918 officials
were trained in the new performance evaluation methods, the utilization of the new budgeting
structures and the use of performance indicators.

PAD goals were achieved, as the implementation of the project budgeting method started in 2006.
Furthermore, the implementation of the performance indicators in about 600 projects, of which
more than 200 are in progress, not only significantly surpasses the 60 programs estimated in the
PAD but facilitates the implementation of a general budgeting system for results-based evaluation
as well as the integration of public investment plans into the annual budget as specifically
required by the PAD.

Component No. 5: Reform and Institutional Development

Reform and strengthening of MOF

The project contributed MOF by: (a) working in the design and implementation of key tools of
financial administration (SIGECOF, data-warehouse), the integrated systems (SIGEFIRRHH,
SIBOS, SIGADE) and integration with other public management systems (SNIP, SENIAT, and


                                                29

banking system); (b) drafting of the legal and regulatory framework; and (c) providing MOF with
the ITC equipment and training required.

The Project contributed to the institutional strengthening of MOF and other public institutions by
providing a total of 545 computer and telecommunications equipment.

Legal area

The legal area carried out several activities to support MOF, working in coordination with outside
consultants on: (a) the draft of General Regulations of LOAFSP; (b) the organization of internal
control in the national public administration; (c) the regulations of the budget, accounting,
treasury, and public credit systems; and (d) the draft National Assets Act.

Training and change management

The project financed training for 7,635 public officials, through 172 events. Inside the training
system, the project developed a process of internal training with counterpart resources, through
eight extra events, in which 139 consultants participated for a total of 100 training hours.

Follow-up and evaluation of Public Policies

Under the project, the process of technical-financial support was maintained for the strengthening
of the Follow-up and Evaluation Unit of Public Policies (USEPP), a unit of MOF.

SNIP

The project developed this tool for MPD in 2003. It comprised the methodology and applications
for investment projects. The project also provided the ICT equipment for implementing the
system. Initially, SNIP works only with the projects included in the Special Indebtedness Act
which accompanies the Annual Budget. The New Stage application developed in 2005 also
captures information required for the management of "mobile cabinets", a key government
decision-making tool that will benefit from SNIP.

The General Directorate of Planning and Investment of MPD hopes to continue with SNIP, to
process the entire project cycle and provide prompt responses information requests for decision-
making by MPD authorities.

Information and telecommunications infrastructure

The project equipped MOF and other organizations involved in the financial administration
reform with the hardware and software tools required by new technologies. After project closing,
the line offices of MOF will be in charge of the ICT infrastructure. The Project also developed
integration of the channel of the information systems of MOF, fundamental element for optimal
operation of SIGECOF. For this reason, the bidding process for "Supplying cabling and active
components for MOF data center" was cancelled and the background information was sent to the
Informatics Office of this Ministry activity and this Office also took over the "Supply of IP
Telephony for MOF" preferred to use individual switchboards. In the Bank's opinion, these
switchboards were old-fashioned technology, which would not support the levels of
communicational efficiency required by the help-desks installed in ONCOP.




                                                  30

The project informatics area provided support to the users of the new system (SNIP, SIBOS,
SIGEFIRRHH, ONT systems, data warehouse). In the case of inter-connected systems, work was
done through a community of users, establishing technical committees who define strategies and
work plans.

Electronic signature for SIGECOF did not make full progress, but a company was contracted to
implement it partially in integrated systems, such as SIGEFIRRHH and SIBOS.

The implementation process for the financial administration systems required a substantial
amount of resources, and should include other Government technology programs, such as the
"digital city-halls". A back-up facility outside MOF installations, is also critical to ensure that the
recording of SIGECOF transactions is not interrupted by physical accidents in the informatics
infrastructure, as currently only one data base is operating, located in the MOF installations.

The Bank considers the hardware and software equipment provided fully satisfactory, with for the
purposes of fulfilling Project objectives; nevertheless the Project could have been more effective
in the formulation of terms of reference, and in the acquisition of some of the ICT equipment
whose supply could not be completed during the life of the Project.



Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

N.A.




                                                 31

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                           Title              Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                            Specialty
Lending

Antonio Martin del Campo           Principal Public Sector
                                     Management Spec.         LCSPS       Team Leader

                                                                           Institutional
Monica Fidel                         Operations Officer       LCSPS  Reform/Human Resource
                                                                             Specialist

Livio Pino                      Financial Management Spec.    LCSFM  Financial Management
                                                                             Specialist

Efraim Jimenez                  Lead Procurement Specialist   LCSPT  Procurement Assessment
                                                                             Specialist

Eduardo Wallentin                         Manager             CLASC    Institutional Reform
                                                                             Specialist
                                                                         Environmental
Walter Vergara                    Lead Chemical Engineer      LCSES    Assessment Review
                                                                           Coordinator
                                                                     Fiduciary/Planning and
Maricarmen Minoso                    Operations Analyst       LCSPS    Evaluation Systems
                                                                             Specialist
Rosa Elba Perez Hernandez                Consultant                  Lead Operational Analyst
Luis Felipe Lopez                        Consultant                          Research
Supervision/ICR
Antonio Martin del Campo      Public Sector Management Spec.  LCSPS       Team Leader

Waleed Malik                  Lead Public Sector Management
                                            Spec.             LCSPS       Task Manager

                                                                     Fiduciary/Planning and
Maricarmen Minoso                    Operations Analyst       LCSPS    Evaluation Systems
                                                                             Specialist
David Varela                         Country Manager          LCCVE       Team Leader
Ana Pereda                               Consultant           LCSPS          Specialist
Angel Cardenas                           Consultant           LCCVE     Sector Specialist

Osvaldo N. Albano                        Consultant           LCSPS     Sr. Public Sector
                                                                     Management Specialist
                                                                        Financial Sector,

Patricia Mc Kenzie             Sr Financial Management Spec.  OPCFM    Regulation, Quality
                                                                       Assurance and Risk
                                                                          Management
Juan Pablo Molina                        Consultant           LCSPS    Operational Analyst
Javier Madalengoitia                     Consultant           LCSPS    Operations Analyst
Nina-Christina Ohman                  E T Consultant          LCSPS    Operations Analyst
Marcelo Amador Osorio                    Consultant           LCSPT          Specialist

Roberto O. Panzardi            Sr. Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.  LCSPS       Public Sector
                                                                          Management
Pedro Alejandro Ravelo Luciani           Consultant           LCCVE    Operational Analyst
Claudio Sandoval                         Consultant           LCSPS          Specialist



                                               32

Sharon D. Spriggs             Program Assistant        LCSPS        Program Assistant



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                              82.23
  FY00                                                               3.37
  FY01                                                               0.64
  FY02                                                               0.00
  FY03                                                               0.00
  FY04                                                               0.00
  FY05                                                               0.00
  FY06                                                               0.00
  FY07                                                               0.00
                        Total:                                      86.24
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                               8.81
  FY00                                   13                         68.96
  FY01                                   16                         87.55
  FY02                                   15                         88.22
  FY03                                    9                         99.76
  FY04                                    7                        119.56
  FY05                                    9                         42.86
  FY06                                    9                         75.76
  FY07                                    1                         28.10
                        Total:           79                        619.58




                                      33

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N.A.

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)
(including assumptions in the analysis)

N.A.




                                           34

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Main factors influencing implementation and results:
Supervision and design, implementation and use of the evaluation

        · Scarce technical-professional resources with sufficient expertise for this type of
             project.
        · Lack of legislation on public administration which could facilitate the design and
             implementation of modernization initiatives with features similar to those of the
             Project.
        · Highly decentralized financial management in State entities.
        · Manual and automated systems not linked with one another.

Based on these factors, a Presidential Decree was issued to initiate a State Financial Management
Modernization Program; its most relevant aspects are described below:

        a.     Develop and implement an Integrated Public Finance Management and Control
               System (SIGECOF).
        b.     Strengthen the Public Expenditure and Internal Audit Control duties within public
               entities through the establishment of a governing body responsible for control and
               internal audit issues within the Executive Branch.
        c.     Simplify and automate the financial management processes regulated by the
               National Comptroller's Office, the Presidential Coordination and Central Planning
               Office (CORDIPLAN), the Central Budget Office (OCEPRE), the National
               Treasury, and the Ministry of Finance's Public Finance, Administrative Accounting
               and Inspection, and Oversight Divisions.
        d.     Redefine and reorganize the State financial management governing bodies to
               improve their effectiveness, efficiency, and coherence.

The most relevant factors that impacted the implementations of the various Project components
were:

Structural and institutional changes within the Public Administration resulting from the
Government's new socioeconomic policy.

The low technical capacity of the personnel assigned to manage integrated systems, which
required that intense training programs be implemented within public sector institutions.
The lack of equipment that complied with the program's required technological specifications; in
order to tackle this, an extensive procurement and distribution program was established at the
different levels of the Public Administration.

The natural resistance to change within the system-user entities; in this case, specialists were
hired to deliver courses and carry out events aimed at raising the awareness and building the trust
of the new users in the benefits offered by the modernization program.
Throughout its implementation, the Project achieved a series of results that have positively
impacted financial management, as the physical and financial resource allocation and
implementation processes have been streamlined and are now simpler, more transparent and
timely; in particular, those related to the preparation and implementation of prioritized programs



                                                 35

and projects, specially those in the social sector designed to overcome deficits in health,
education, nutrition, and, in general, reduce poverty and extreme poverty.

The results achieved have been evaluated using the data and information generated by the
processes and operational tools in the financial management systems in the context of the
modernization program, in particular the following key products:

        1.      Conceptual Model of the Integrated Public Finance Management and Control
                System (SIGECOF) developed in September, 1997, and updated in November,
                2002.
        2.      The Public Sector Financial Management Bill and the support provided throughout
                its approval process; it was published in the Official Gazette of the Bolivarian
                Republic of Venezuela N° 37.029 on September 5, 2000.
        3.      The purchase and setting up of the first version of the Integrated System of Debt
                Administration and Control (SIGADE) delivered to the Public Credit National
                Office.
        4.      Accounting System Applicable to all national level entities which was approved by
                the National Comptroller's Office, regulated by the National Superintendency of
                Public Accounting and Internal Control (SUNACIC), and set up in 2000 to become
                effective as of January 1, 2001. The following transaction registration manuals and
                the related annexes are included in the System: N°1 Chart and Operationalization
                of Accounts, N°2 Accounting Entry Models, and N°3.
        5.      Financial Statements and Income and Expenses Budget Matrix.
        6.      The creation of SUNACIC, which enabled the strengthening of the control and
                internal audit duties.     This was accomplished through the streamlining and
                automation of the financial management processes regulated by the General
                Comptroller's Office, and the national planning and financial management systems
                governing bodies.
        7.      SIGECOF was also designed to assemble the budgetary, treasury, accounting, and
                public credit systems regulated by LOAFSP, as well as the tax, and goods
                management systems, regulated by special laws.

The SIGECOF information system was developed and implemented to manage all spending
stages (pre-commitment, commitment, and payment) until the payment order is processed; this
can only be done once ONAPRE prepares and establishes the corresponding budgetary interface
through the SICOP formulation tool (currently, SIFPRE).

This System was initially transferred to SUNACIC, which installed it in national level entities
with the project's assistance. The use of this tool was discontinued by the end of 2005 due to
changes in the budgetary structure as budgets were no longer based on programs but on projects.
As a result, the National Accountancy Office (ONCOP), which assumed SUNACIC's accounting
functions, developed another tool based on the same principles of the initial SIGECOF and
adjusted it to the new budget-per-project structure.

        8.      Provision of equipment, applications, and technical assistance to national level
                entities for the installation and automated operation of SIGECOF in central and
                decentralized administrative entities.
        9.      Design of the SIGECOF's Conceptual Model for:
                · Non-Corporate Decentralized entities
                · States
                · Municipalities


                                                  36

         10.   The Conceptual Framework of the Integrated Human Resource Financial
               Management System (SIGEFIRRHH); the development and application of this
               information tool and the distribution of related computer equipment, as required by
               public administration bodies and entities.
         11.   New Venezuelan Public Sector Financial Management Model (August, 2004) and
               the related SIGECOF Macro Functional Model (November, 2004).
         12.   Draft National Assets Bill, which is currently being considered by the competent
               entities, as part of its validation process, to be submitted later to the National
               Assembly for approval.
         13.   Design and development of the Goods, Works and Services Integrated System
               (SIBOS) and the methodology proposed to perform the inventory.
         14.   Assistance to ONAPRE in the revision of the programmatic budgetary structures of
               the national level entities.
         15.   Conceptual model for the follow-up and evaluation of budgetary expenses, a guide
               on how to build indicators, and a first draft Manual of the Expense Budget Follow-
               Up and Evaluation Registration System. It is currently being updated.
         16.   Assistance provided to the Public Administration entities to construct project-
               specific performance indicators in order to strengthen their evaluation systems.
         17.   Purchase and implementation of an information system tool to prepare, manage,
               and follow-up on online training courses, and the development of three such
               courses.
         18.   Integrated Classification System and redesigning of account plans, jointly with the
               Ministry of Finance's governing bodies, and the preparation of a Single Conversion
               Matrix, based on which an application to monitor performance was developed.
         19.   Training of the personnel of governing bodies and other entities on public sector
               financial management systems and processes.
         20.   Technical and financial support to strengthen the Ministry of Finance and its
               governing bodies, including: ONCOP's Customer Service Center, Datawarehouse,
               distribution of videoconference and other computer equipment.

Status after Project closing, operations continuity, and future needs in terms of the reforms and
institutional capacity required to continue and advance finance modernization.

Despite the results achieved, there are still pending objectives and goals; considering that public
finance modernization must be a continuous process, the new approach adopted by the project
will place emphasis on adjusting Venezuela's public sector financial management to meet
requirements based on:
      1.     Continuing to strengthen the Ministry of Finance as the public sector financial
             management governing body, and the director and supervisor of the implementation
             and maintenance of the financial management systems as well as of the ministries
             and entities responsible for budget execution.
      2.     Complying with article 186 of the LOAFSP, as to continue assisting the governing
             bodies in improving their management capacity, contribute to the harmonization of
             the State's financial management legal framework, prioritize the implementation of
             its subordinate systems and internal controls, and carry out training programs for the
             personnel working under the Law and specialization programs for consultants.
      3.     Preparing the legal and regulatory provisions required by the merging of medium-
             term planning and the annual budget, and continuing the search for greater efficiency
             and transparency in the use of funds, quality enhancement in public spending, as well
             as citizen participation throughout the different stages of the budget process.



                                                 37

      4.    Improving information and telecommunication technology to assist public service
            providers in the processing of information and in increasing their relationship with
            the financial management governing bodies.
      5.    Continuing to adjust SIGECOF to the new legal and regulatory requirements and
            keeping up with the technical progress of integrated financial management systems.
      6.    Expanding financial management modernization to decentralized entities, States, and
            municipalities, where public resources are being transferred gradually in concordance
            with the Government's functional and territorial decentralization strategy.
      7.    Addressing the financial management demands posed by the new organizational
            structures that are being established in the public administration, as criteria for the
            allocation of public resources, for instance, as is the case of the Community Councils.
      8.    Contributing to the strengthening of the internal and external control systems related
            to public financial management.
      9.    Continuing implementing the joint public management systems, such as
            SIGEFIRRRHH and SIBOS, in the State Public Administration entities, and
            expanding their use to functionally and territorially decentralized entities.

Finally, long-term modernization must consider the intrinsic dynamics of public finance, the
policy changes, and economic, organizational, and administrative decisions; the Government
must keep all these key elements in mind when fostering and implementing processes to improve
resource administration. Along these lines, the Project proposed to address the following action
areas:

        a)      Normative framework, including legal reforms;
        b)      Institutional aspects, including organizational changes and bureaucratic culture;
        c)      Management administration, focusing mostly on improving the methods and
                simplifying the procedures of management tasks; and
        d)      Instrumental requirements, preparing proposals for the development of
                information systems and complementary tools.




                                                 38

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
(if any)

N.A.




                                        39

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
(In the Portal, each document can be linked to a file in IRIS or attach a new document)

A. Project Implementation Plan

     · Project Implementation Plan

B. Bank Staff Assessments

     · Financial Management Assessment (Livio Pino, April 1999)

     · Institutional Assessment (William Mayville, May 1999)

     · Social and Environmental Clearance, (Walter Vergara, May 1999)

C. Other

     · SIGECOF Draft Law (July 1997)

     · Conceptual Design of SIGECOF Phase I (September 1997)

     · Progress Report of SIGECOF Project (to October 1998)

     · "Reestructuracion del Ministerio de Hacienda", Andersen Consulting 96/97

     · "Programa de Reforma Fiscal" Tomo I y II, Maxim Ross y Asociados, Julio 1996.

     · Project Appraisal Document for the Republic of Venezuela: Public Expenditure Reform
         Project dated June 1999 (Report No: 19363-VE)

     · Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports

     · Project Progress Reports

     · Borrower's Evaluation Report dated December 2006

*including electronic files




                                                     40

