                               Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                          Report No: AB562

Project Name                  CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF - DRC - Multisectoral HIV/AIDS
                              Project
Region                        Africa Regional Office
Sector                        Primary education (35%); Health (35%); Adult literacy/non-formal education
                              (15%); Agricultural extension and research (15%)
Theme                         Education for all (P); Other communicable diseases (P); Child health (P); Health
                              system performance (P); Other rural development (P)
Project                       P082516
Borrower(s)                   DRC
Implementing Agency(ies)      DRC
                              Ministry of Health
                              Address:
                              Contact Person: Dr. Jack Kokolomami
                              Tel: 243 9956 118        Fax:       Email: pajack70@yahoo.fr
Environment Category          B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared             January 21, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date           December 24, 2003
Bank Approval Date            March 25, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
The Democratic Republic of Congo is gradually emerging from a decade of conflict which left the
country facing the collapse of physical, social and economic infrastructure. The country's
economy is devastated with a per capita income of about US$87 (equivalent to US$0.25 per
person/day) in 2000. As a consequence of this dire situation, about 16 million people are starving
and malnourished.

For the past two years, the government of the DRC launched serious efforts to establish peace
among the various parties in conflict and to lay the groundwork for reunification. Economic
growth has resumed and was positive (+ 3%) for the first time in 2002 and the country is on the
road to recovery. However, the country faces steep short- and medium term socio-economic
challenges and needs massive support from the donor community to overcome them.

Increasing HIV/AIDS prevalence rates: The HIV/AIDS epidemic is the single most challenging
issue facing the Democratic Republic of Congo. This epidemic poses a worrisome public health
problem and is a threat to economic development. As of late 2000, data compiled by the national
HIV/AIDS project estimated that there were 1,259,000 persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA)
and that the national rate of HIV prevalence in the adult population was 5.07 % with provincial
variations ranging from 4.5 % in Eastern Kasai and Kinshasa to 7.5% in Katanga. According to
other estimates, (i) 699,000 adults and children succumbed to AIDS in 2000; and (ii) between
687,000 and 699,000 children under the age of 15 had lost one or both parents to AIDS-related
illness as of December 31, 2000.

                                                 2
                                                                                                PID




According to data obtained from HIV sero-surveillance studies at sentinel sites and from other ad
hoc studies on high-risk groups, infection rates of 30 % or higher have been observed among
prostitutes and 33 % among hospitalized tuberculosis patients, 20 % among tuberculosis patients
receiving ambulatory treatment. Intermediate risks groups show prevalence rates 5.3 % or more
(observed among employees of the Commercial Bank of Kinshasa in 1996) and family blood
donors, with 8.5 percent (HGK 1996). Finally, low risk groups such as pregnant women regarded
as closest to the adult population, have the highest rates recently observed at 6 % (in Bunia,
1997). This group also includes people who voluntarily donate blood on a more or less regular
basis, among whom the rate observed was 4.9 percent (HGK, 1996).

Further analysis of this data indicate an increase in the female-to-male ratio (from 1.6 in 1991 to
1.02 by 1998). Taking into account the clinical incubation period of the virus, it appears that
women are acquiring the infection between the ages of 15 and 19, while men are becoming
infected between the ages of 20 and 29. The data also shows that Sexual transmission remains the
most commonly observed mode of contamination (accounting for 87 percent of cases), although
mother-to-infant transmission (8 percent of cases) is starting to gain ground, intravenous
contamination (5 percent). The age groups most affected in general are those aged 20 to 49 years,
with women aged 20 to 29 years and men aged 30 to 39 years being most affected.

Undoubtedly, the war has contributed to increased trends in HIV infection and if taken into
account, the current prevalence rates could be much higher. The destruction of social services and
health infrastructures, combined with massive displacement of populations and the resurgence of
sexual violence, are all elements contributing to HIV transmission.       While the rate of HIV
infection is holding steady in Kinshasa, partial data reaching the PNLS indicate a doubling of the
rate among pregnant women in Lubumbashi (from 4.8 to 8.6 percent) and in Matadi (from 5.6
percent to 10 percent) over a two-year period (1997 ­ 1999). A study published by Save the
Children-UK in December 2001 reveals that, in certain eastern regions of DRC, HIV prevalence is
four times greater than the national average of 5 percent reported in 1999.

Government strategy

Alerted by the persistent and rapid increase in the number of recorded cases following diagnosis
of the first cases in 1983, mainly at the Kinshasa General Hospital (formerly the Mama Yemo
Hospital) and at the country's university medical centers, the Government of DRC decided in
1984 to work with the international community in order to better gauge the dimensions of the
problem. The National AIDS Control Commission (Comité national de lutte contre le SIDA,
CNLS) was therefore created and in 1987 developed a short-term plan, the purpose of which was
to assess the scope of the problem in the country.

Until 1994, the Medium-Term Plan 1991-1994 served as a viable framework for HIV/AIDS
control in DRC. However, its implementation was disrupted by political and civil events that
resulted in the withdrawal of financing from the donor community.                   In 1995, the
WHO/UNDP-financed preparatory assistance project re-started the implementation of HIV/AIDS
control activities and provided the opportunity to the government of DRC to develop a new

                                                  3
                                                                                                  PID


vision for the fight against HIV/AIDS.

In 2001, the Bank approved a Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) designed to support the
Government's key challenges of: (i) consolidating peace, (ii) stabilizing the macroeconomic and
fiscal framework, (iii) improving governance, and, (iv) starting to rebuilt social services and
meeting basic needs. The Bank also identified the HIV/AIDS epidemic as a priority and included a
budget of US$ 8 million in the first Early Emergency Recovery Credit (a package of US$50
million) for specifically addressing the HIV/AIDS crisis.

More recently, the government of the DRC has adopted a national strategic plan with the
objective to slow down the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and mitigating its impact on
families, communities and productive sectors. This strategy is based upon: (i) the promotion at
the highest level of government of a multi-sectoral approach to the fight against HIV/AIDS and
creation of partnership among all actors and sectors involved in HIV/AIDS control activities; (ii)
the encouragement of a central role for people living with HIV/AIDS and; (iii) the mobilization
of all stakeholders including government agencies, private sector entities, Non-governmental and
civil society organizations and beneficiary communities throughout the country.

2. Objectives
The proposed project is part of the World Bank's Multi-sectorl HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa
Region. The project is designed to assist the government of the DRC in the implementation of its
national strategic plan. The objective of the project is to mitigate the negative impact of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic on the development of the Democratic Republic of Congo by :

(i) reducing the risk of sexual, intravenous and vertical transmission of HIV;
(ii) Improving the health status and quality of life of people living with HIV/AIDS and;
(iii) Mitigating the socio-economic impact of the epidemic on vulnerable population groups.

The proposed project will serve as a catalyst for the government in launching the implementation
of its national strategic plan and will complement existing activities currently under
implementation in the country (HIV/AIDS components of the Emergency Recovery project
financed by the World bank). It will also complement financing provided by other donors involved
in the fight against HIV/AIDS in the DRC.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement

Over the past three years, the Bank has played a crucial role in the fight against HIV/AIDS by
mobilizing considerable financial resources throughout the world, and especially in Africa, in
support of national responses to the crisis. It has also broadened its knowledge and expertise in
this area, in collaboration with other technical development partners (e.g., WHO, UNAIDS,
UNICEF, UNFPA).

The Bank's leadership on the fight against HIV/AIDS makes it a prime partner for the DRC's
efforts to implement its National Strategic Plan. The financial resources that the Bank can deploy
in support of the government's strategy, its ability to establish a rigorous financial set-up for the
management and oversight of funds in a country as vast as the DRC, its ability to involve other

                                                  4
                                                                                                 PID


donors in the financing of multisectoral development programs, are all catalysts to promoting and
ensuring a coherent, sustained response to the challenges of the epidemic. Moreover, given the
extent of the social repercussions of HIV/AIDS, the Bank's experience in the area of beneficiary
evaluations (i.e., the gathering of opinions from various actors in order to better understand their
issues) could significantly enhance the efficacy of AIDS control activities all over the country and
among marginal groups in the population.

4. Description
The proposed project will support the government of DRC in the implementation of its national
strategic plan and will provide resources and technical skills needed to upscale and improve
delivery mechanisms for HIV/AIDS control activities. It will also serve a catalyst for the
government in mobilizing required resources for the purpose.

The Project is designed to be implemented nationwide in all the country's 11 provinces, in urban
as well as rural areas, and will promote and encourage the involvement of a variety of
stakeholders including public sector agencies; private sector entities; NGO and civil society
organizations and; will provide considerable resources for the involvement of beneficiary
communities in rural and urban areas and for the implementation of community action plans
proposed by beneficiaries.

The project will have four components; Each component would implement activities in three key
areas:   (i)  Prevention     (Safety   of  blood    transfusions;  IEC/Community       mobilization;
Supply/promotion/distribution of condoms and medical supplies; Voluntary counseling and testing
(VCT);    STD     screening    and   treatment;   Reduction   of   mother-to-infant    transmission;
Epidemiological surveillance; and Research); (ii) Support services, care and treatment for
PLWHA (Nutritional support and health/hygiene services; Screening for, and treatment of,
opportunistic infections-OI; ARV drugs; Psychological and social support services; Support to
associations of PLV; Expansion of home health care; Improvement of the legal framework for
protecting the rights of persons infected with HIV and/or suffering from AIDS) and; (iii)
Mitigation of the impact on persons and groups affected (Community mobilization;
psychological and social support services; social/economic support to families and groups affected
by HIV/AIDS; strategies for supporting orphans; improvement of the legal framework for
protecting the rights of persons infected with HIV and/or suffering from AIDS, and those affected
by them; Combating social stigmas).

Component 1: Response of the public sector : The objective of this component is to support
the mobilization of, and assist public institutions in the fight against the epidemic and by
mainstreaming HIV/AIDS activities into their regular work program. The component is structured
in two sub-components as follows:

(a)     Program of the Ministry of Health: Given its dominant role, the Ministry of Health
(MSP) will consolidate and expand activities undertaken under the IDA grant in the areas of
safety of blood transfusions, screening and treatment of STDs and opportunistic infections,
voluntary testing and counseling (VTC), and in the area of condom promotion and distribution. In
addition, this ministry will play a key role in providing access to anti-retroviral (ARV) drugs and

                                                     5
                                                                                                        PID


in preventing mother-to-infant transmission. This ministry will also serve as quality assurance for
all actors involved in the delivery of medical services in the implementation of the national
strategic action plan. In addition, the ministry will be responsible for support activities, such as
epidemiological surveillance and research.

(b)     Program of the other ministries: The Project will also provide technical support and
finance action plans proposed by other ministries and other public sector institutions to target
their both internal clients (staff) as well as their external target (usual clients/beneficiaries). Project
implementation guidelines will include the definition of eligibility criteria such as financing
envelope; the capacity for co-financing (i.e., a budget line); the relevant integration of HIV/AIDS
into activities currently underway; the cost-effectiveness of interventions and implementation
arrangements; and the effort demonstrated to reach the grassroots level and the direct
beneficiaries.

Component 2: Response of Non-governmental sector: This component will cover HIV/AIDS
activities proposed by the Non-governmental sector including private sector entities, NGOs and
faith-based organizations.

a)      Private sector      enterprises: Through this sub-component, the project will support
HIV/AIDS activities proposed by the HIV/AIDS committee of private sector entities. These
entities are organized under an umbrella organization denominated the Comité Inter-Entreprise de
Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA (CIELS). The CIELS will serve as an interface and coordinate the
preparation and submission of action plans by member enterprises at the national, provincial, and
local levels. The project will co-finance HIV/AIDS sub-projects presented by member enterprises
to undertake activities in any of the three key areas of the project. It will also contribute funding
for studies of the epidemic's impact on enterprises and on growth; improvement of the Labor
Code; developing a private sector strategy for promoting and distributing condoms; and
strengthening supply chains for medical inputs.

b)      NGOs and faith-based organizations: This sub-component will mobilize and support
Non-governmental and faith-based organizations in the implementation of the national strategic
plan supported by the project. Various apex organizations including the NGO Forum (FOSI) and
the Inter-faith HIV/AIDS committee will be encouraged to propose action plans to be financed or
co-financed to contribute to the project's objectives. Primarily, the project will provide technical
capacity to these organizations through the apex and will finance HIV/AIDS action plans
proposed by each organization. The arrangements for approval as well as selection criteria for
action plans will be detailed in the project's operational manuals.

Component 3: Support to community initiatives: Activities under this component will be
demand-driven and the project will finance beneficiary communities (a village, a neighborhood, a
school or any local associations). Beneficiary communities will elaborate HIV/AIDS action plans
and submit them to the local HIV/AIDS committee for approval. In the implementation of these
action plans, beneficiaries will       be supported by NGOs, public services and other service
providers. During preparation, the modalities and eligibility criteria for access to this fund will be
developed in more details and presented in the project's operational manuals' chapter on

                                                  6
                                                                                                 PID


community initiatives.

Component 4: Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation, Capacity Building: The
component will also support the establishment of a National Coordination Unit (NC) for the
coordination and overall daily implementation, monitoring and evaluation of HIV/AIDS control
activities in the DRC. The component will finance activities of the national coordination at the
central and provincial levels and possibly district and zone branches. Activities for monitoring and
evaluation including specific and periodic studies will be implemented under this component.
Capacity building for all stakeholders involved in implementation will also be implemented under
this component.

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER/RECIPIENT ($10.00)
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS ($100.00)
Total Project Cost: $110.00

6. Implementation

Project oversight: The project will be implemented by a large number of public agencies, private
entities civil society and faith-based organizations. The Government has established a National
Multisectoral AIDS Program (Programme national multisectoriel de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA,
(PNMLS) attached to the Office of the President. Placed under the authority of the President (the
Minsitry of health will assume the vice-presidency), the National AIDS Commission will be a
proportionally representative body of ministries involved in the Program, the private sector,
non-governmental, faith-based and professional organizations. The CNMLS will define the broad
policy themes of the PNMLS and will approve programs, budgets and annual statements of
results. The CNMLS will be decentralized to provinces, districts and zones.

Project Coordination: Operational functions will be performed by a National Coordination Unit
(NCU) entity (Coordination Nationale) which will serve as Technical Secretariat of the National
HIV/AIDS commission and coordinate program implementation. It will be fully staffed with
high-level professionals recruited on a competitive basis. The national coordination unit will be
responsible for managing the IDA Special Account and the Government's counterpart. The
national coordination unit will also be decentralized to provinces and districts as necessary. The
composition and functions of the provincial and zone coordination units will be similar to those of
the CNMLS. The institutional decentralization of the PNMLS will be worked out in detail and its
feasibility evaluated during preparation.

                                                   7
                                                                                                  PID


Financial management, accounting and audit arrangements: Financial management,
procurement and M & E activities of the project will be contracted out to specialized firms. The
Financial Management Agency, which will be recruited in the private market among firms with
international repute will be responsible for (i) the establishment of a financial accounting
management system including installation of appropriate financial management software that will
meet IDA reporting requirements; (ii) the overall responsibility of the project's financial
management and (iii) Monitoring and evaluation of the project's performance. In addition, the
Financial Management Agency will assist the project coordination unit in the establishment of a
computerized contract tracking and monitoring system. Such system will be decentralized to the
provincial levels (and the zone level if possible). This system should allow the early identification
of problem contracts and should provide the necessary checkpoints to trigger subsequent actions.
It should be linked to the financial and administrative procedures.

Project implementation manuals: The borrower is currently working on a detailed project
operational manuals following guidelines proposed by the IDA. Once completed, this document
will be submitted to IDA for comments before adoption. Key elements of the operational manuals
will include criteria for selection and sequencing of zones, districts and provinces in which the
project will be implemented, and detailed description of the process of preparation and approval
of subprojects, micro-projects and action plans.

Coverage and sequencing: Implementation of the project will progress gradually and will reach
full scale in the third year. Out of the 11 provinces, it is proposed that five (5) provinces
(including Kinshasa) will be targeted in the first year of the project, four (4 ) additional will be
added in year 2 and the remaining two (2) from year 3. The main criteria used for the selection of
the provinces include HIV/AIDS prevalence rates and impact of the epidemic.While the proposed
coverage will apply for the project, existing HIV/AIDS control activities (including the AIDS
component of the Early Emergency Recovery Project) will continue to be implemented in all
provinces.

7. Sustainability
Support for the project is demonstrated by the firm leadership of the central government and the
broad participation of faith-based organizations, NGOs, community organizations and
associations of people living with AIDS in the identification of the project. Public support seems
to be growing due to the AIDS-related harm caused to so many families.
The project will enhance institutional viability by investing in capacity-building for public agencies
and private entities. In-depth training will be dispensed in particular to providers of AIDS-related
medical, educational and social services.

Beyond the implementation period, the program's financial viability will depend on continued
support from multilateral and bilateral donors. Continued support may be counted upon since
donors are increasingly aware of the impacts of the epidemic and have therefore increased their
financing.

                                                    8
                                                                                                     PID


8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project design takes into consideration lessons learned from implementation of development
projects in the country. Additional lessons from the design and implementation of MAP projects
will be used to projects risks and propose a strategy to minimize those risks. Key lessons include:

(i)      Importance of leadership and commitment on the part of political authorities:
Implementation of the MAP has been most successful in countries in which the national
HIV/AIDS control agency has a coordinating role rather than a managing role. The national
AIDS commission will be established and placed under the authority of the President and will be
encouraged to develop and refine the National Strategic Plan and to set priorities at the national
level. It will confine itself to providing strategic guidance for HIV/AIDS control projects; it will
only be required to approve projects when amounts exceed a certain level. The CNMLS will be
established by Decree and will include representatives of NGOs, the private sector and beneficiary
associations.

(ii)     Subcontracting financial management of project has ensured transparency, quick
disbursements and management of a large volume of transactions, avoiding overlaps and improves
clarity of contractual obligations and monitoring of performance; The DRC will be advised to
entrust financial and procurement management to professionals outside the civil service, and to
recruit a team of consultants for this purpose on the basis of performance criteria. Contracts will
be signed on the basis of performance in order to ensure maximum efficiency.

(iii)    Need to incorporate local knowledge and practices.                   As experience proves it
throughout the continent, local knowledge and practices can complement HIV/AIDS control
efforts. The proposed project will encourage the identification and integration of local knowledge
and proven practices in the design of the project.

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues   : Environmental category: B (partial evaluation)

As with other Bank-supported MAP projects, the DRC HIV/AIDS project is not expected to
have negative environmental impacts. The most likely foreseeable risk is related to the handling
and disposal of HIV-infected medical waste and materials. In accordance with Bank guidelines, a
Medical Waste Management Plan (MWMP) has been developed during preparation, in close
collaboration with the Ministry of Health, national institutions and agencies involved in
monitoring environmental protection, representatives of civil society and grassroots communities.
The main provisions of the MWMP call for an increase in awareness campaigns, improvement of training
to benefit medical and paramedical staff; additional equipment and adapted technologies for the handling
and collection of medical waste in hospitals and health centers. In addition, the MWMP proposed
additional efforts should be carried out in order to accelerate drafting of legal documents detailing
procedures and standards applicable in the country regarding the handling, collection and disposal of
medical waste throughout the country. These provisions will be incorporated into the final draft of the
project's Operational Manual, and will serve as guidelines in the design and implementation of HIV/AIDS
control activities. The terms of reference of the MWMP, which have been widely disclosed in
country (on december 23, 2003) and at inforshop (on december 30, 2003) have been cleared by
the Bank's Africa Safeguard Policy Enhancement Service (ASPEN).

                                                  9
                                                                                                   PID




10. List of factual technical documents:
-Transitional Support Strategy for the Democratic Republic of Congo
 -The National Strategic Document on the fight against HIV/AIDS in the Democratic Republic of
Congo
 -Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiatives for the Democratic Republic of Congo
 -Emergency Early Recovery Project for the Democratic Republic of Congo
 -Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support Project for the Democratic Republic of Congo
 -Emergency Multisectoral Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project for the Democratic Republic of
Congo

11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     Suzanne Piriou-Sall
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: 202 473 1237
      Fax: 202 473 8229

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

