Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
GRANT NUMBER H080 DRC 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 16, 2004 
 
Page  2
CONFORMED 
 
GRANT NUMBER H080 DRC 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 2004, between the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
OF CONGO (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Recipient its national 
strategic plan against HIV/AIDS (National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, dated July 14, 
1999, describing a program of objectives, policies and actions designed to control and 
prevent the further spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic (the Program), and declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(B)  
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C) 
the Executive Directors of the Association approved, on December 20, 
2001, the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region with an 
estimated cost in the amount of US$500,000,000 over a period of three years; 
(D) 
the Project is part of the Second Multi-Sectoral Program for the Africa 
Region and the development grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the Grant) 
is financed under the said program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis  
inter alia
 of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
Page  3
-
2
-
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
(b) 
“Ad Hoc Procurement Commission” means the Recipient’s procurement 
commission referred to in paragraph 6.01 (b) of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Apex Organization” means a federation of organizations established and 
operating under the laws of the Recipient; 
(d) 
“Beneficiary” means any Apex Organization, CBO (as hereinafter 
defined), MDA (as hereinafter defined), NGO (as hereinafter defined), faith based 
organization, professional association, public or private sector entity to which or for 
whose benefit a Work Plan (as hereinafter defined), or Subproject (as hereinafter defined) 
or Micro-project (as hereinafter defined) which have met the eligibility criteria defined in 
Project Manuals (as hereinafter defined) and Schedule 4 to this Agreement is financed or 
proposed to be financed by the proceeds of the Grant; 
(e) 
“CBO” means a community based organization established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Recipient;
 
(f) 
“Facilitating Agent” means any United Nations, agency or public or 
private entity which has entered into a Facilitating Services Contract (as hereinafter 
defined) with NCU (as hereinafter defined), PCU (as hereinafter defined) or LCU (as 
hereinafter defined), as the case may be, as provided in part E of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(g) 
“Facilitating Services Contract” means the agreement to be entered into 
between NCU, PCU or LCU, as the case may be, and a Facilitating Agent, in accordance 
with paragraph E of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(h) “FEDECAM” 
means 
Fédération des Centrales d’Approvisionnement en 
Medicaments Essentiels
,
established and operating pursuant to the Laws of the Recipient; 
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“FMA” means the Fiduciary Management Agency in charge of 
establishing, staffing and operating a fiduciary management department within the NCU 
(as hereinafter defined), PCUs (as hereinafter defined) and LCUs (as hereinafter defined), 
Page  4
-
3
-
as well as carrying out procurement and financial management activities for selected 
Beneficiaries, whose Work Plan (as hereinafter defined) has been approved; 
(k) 
“HIV” means the human immuno-deficiency virus; 
(l) 
“LCS” mean Local Steering Committees to be established at the  
sub-provincial level pursuant to the Project Implementation Décret (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(m) 
“LCU” means each of the Local Coordination Units (
Bureau Local de 
Coordination
)
to be established at the Province or Territory level pursuant to the Project 
Manuals (as hereinafter defined) and in compliance with the Project Implementation 
Décret 
(as hereinafter defined); 
(n) 
 “MDAs” means the line ministries, other than the MoH (as hereinafter 
defined), of the Recipient; 
(o) 
“MWMP” means the medical waste management plan dated 
 
December 23, 2003, approved by the Association, setting out the measures and 
arrangements necessary for the proper management of hazardous waste for Parts A 
through C of the Project, including modalities for screening and procedures for the 
preparation and implementation of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) and Micro-
projects (as hereinafter defined); 
(p) 
“Micro-project Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between NCU (as hereinafter defined), PCU (as hereinafter defined) or LCU, as the case 
may be, and a Beneficiary for the provision of a Micro-grant (as hereinafter defined) in 
accordance with part D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Micro-project” means specific activities financed or to be financed by a 
Micro-grant (as hereinafter defined) provided from the proceeds of the Grant under  
Parts A through C of the Project; 
(r) 
“Micro-grant” means a grant made, or to be made, out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, to finance a Micro-project; 
(s) 
“MoH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health, and any departments 
and agencies thereof; 
(t) 
“NCU” means the National Coordination Unit (
Coordination Nationale
)
established and operating pursuant to the Project Implementation 
Décret 
(as hereinafter 
defined); 
(u) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and 
operating pursuant to the following laws of the Recipient; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(v) 
“PCU” means each of the Provincial Coordination Units (
Bureau 
Provincial de Coordination
)
to be established at the Province level pursuant to the 
Project Manuals (as hereinafter defined) and in compliance with the Project 
Implementation 
Décret
 (as hereinafter defined); 
(w) 
“Performance Based Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between NCU, PCU or LCU, as the case may be, and the MoH or a MDA whose Work 
Plan (as hereinafter defined) has been approved by NCU, PCU or LCU, as the case may 
be, in accordance with part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(x) 
“Performance Based Contract” means the agreement to be entered into 
between NCU, PCU or LCU, as the case may be, and a Beneficiary other than the MoH 
or a MDA whose Work Plan (as hereinafter defined) has been approved by NCU, PCU or 
LCU, as the case may be, in accordance with paragraph C of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(y) 
“PLWHA” means Persons Living with HIV/AIDS; 
(z) 
“Project Fiduciary and Administrative Manual” means the manual 
outlining the administrative, financial accounting, disbursement and procurement 
arrangements for the implementation of the Project, referred to in paragraph A.2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to 
the Project Fiduciary and Administrative Manual; 
(aa) “Project 
Implementation 
Décre
t” means the presidential decree 
portant 
sur la creation et l’organization du programme national multisectoriel de lutte contre le 
SIDA
 referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement; 
(bb) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual outlining, 
inter alia
,
the institutional and operational arrangements for the implementation of the Project, 
including, 
inter alia
,
the MWMP, the monitoring and evaluation arrangements of the 
Project, and the operational arrangements for the preparation and implementation of 
Work Plans, Subprojects and Micro-projects, referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement and adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Project Implementation Manual; 
(cc) 
“Project Manuals” means, together, the Project Implementation Manual 
and the Project Fiduciary and Administrative Manual; 
(dd) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on September 9, 2003, and on behalf of the Recipient on 
September 11, 2003; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ee) 
“Province” means an administrative area established pursuant to 
 
Décret-Loi No. 081 du 2 juillet 1998 portant Organisation Territoriale et Administrative 
de la République Démocratique du Congo tel que modifié et complété par le Décret-Loi 
No. 018/2001 du 28  septembre 2001
,
representing a designated area and population 
within the territory of the Recipient ; 
(ff) 
“Second Generation Accounts” means the accounts referred to in 
paragraph B.8 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(gg) 
 “Special Account A” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made for Project activities implemented at the 
national level, and referred to in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(hh) 
“Special Account B” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made for Project activities implemented at the 
provincial and sub-provincial level, and referred to in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, and that may be used to replenish Second Generation Accounts; 
(ii) 
“Special Account C” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made for Project activities implemented at the 
provincial or sub-provincial level, in Provinces where there are no banking facilities and 
referred to in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(jj) 
“Special Accounts” means Special Account A, B and C; 
(kk) 
“SC” means the Steering Committee for the Project (
Conseil National 
Multisectoriel de Lutte contre le SIDA
)
established and operating pursuant to the Project 
Implementation 
Décret
;
(ll) 
“Subgrant” means a sub grant made, or to be made, out of the proceeds 
of the Grant, to finance a Subproject (as hereafter defined); 
(mm) 
“Sub grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
NCU or PCU, as the case may be, and a Beneficiary for the provision of a Sub grant in 
accordance with part D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(nn) 
“Subproject” means specific activities financed or to be financed by a 
Sub grant provided from the proceeds of the Grant under Parts A through C of the 
Project; 
(oo) 
 “Work Plan” means a work plan outlining measures for the prevention, 
care and mitigation of HIV/AIDS the preparation and the implementation of which is 
financed or to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant; 
ARTICLE II 
Page  7
-
6
-
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixty-eight million and four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 68,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association 
shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made for 
the benefit of a Beneficiary to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Work Plans, Subprojects and Micro-Projects to be financed, and in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2011, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in United States Dollars, or in such other 
Page  8
-
7
-
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on March 15  
and September 15 in each year. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through the NCU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, community development, environmental, financial and public 
health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period determined by the 
Association), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Grant was made, audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period determined by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period determined by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of
 
statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least two years after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
Page  10
-
9
-
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in part F of Schedule 4 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03.  
The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
have a technical audit, the conditions of which are defined in 
more details in the Project Manuals, carried out to review 
procurement, statements of expenditures, and immobilizations as 
well as verifying the physical existence of goods, equipments 
and services acquired throughout the Project for each period 
running from July 1 of each fiscal year through June 30 of the 
following fiscal year (or other period determined by the 
Association) (the Technical Audit Period), by independent 
technical auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of the Technical Audit 
Period a report prepared by said technical auditors on said 
technical audit.
 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and 
(b) 
the Project Implementation 
Décret 
or
any text governing the operations 
of NCU shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 
6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has established NCU with the following staff: a 
coordinator, an operation and logistic specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, 
all employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, and the fiduciary staff to be provided by the FMA referred to in  
Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement; 
(b) 
the Recipient has employed the FMA, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and an operational fiduciary management, 
satisfactory to the Association, has been established including: (i) the recruitment, 
installation, and training of minimum financial and procurement staff within the NCU; 
(ii) the installation of a software for financial and procurement management and the 
training of staff within the NCU; (iii) the opening of Special Accounts; (iv) the 
independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement have been 
employed; and (v) the Ad Hoc Procurement Commission has been established and is 
operational; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(c) 
the Recipient has adopted the Project Manuals, all in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(d) 
the Project Implementation Decree, satisfactory to the Association, has 
been enacted; 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance is designated as representative 
of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12
-
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
 
BP 12997 
 
Kinshasa I 
 
Democratic Republic of Congo 
 
Facsimile: 
 
243 880 23 81 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI)  (202) 477 6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
By: /s/ André-Philippe Futa 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A. 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
2,400,000 100% 
 
(2) Goods 
 
12,300,000 
 
100%  
(3)  Consultants’ services 
(including audits) and 
Training 
 
23,700,000 
 
100% 
 
(4)   Subprojects and 
Micro-projects 
23,100,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(5)   Operating costs 
4,700,000 
100% 
(6)   Refunding of the 
Project Preparation 
Advance 
 
800,000  
(7)   Unallocated 
1,400,000 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 
 
 
         68,400,000 
 
========= 
Page  16
-
15
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by 
NCU, PCU and LCU, and, as the case may be, the MoH or MDAs whose Work Plan has 
been approved, on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, vehicles operation and maintenance, communication costs, 
rental expenses, utilities expenses, consumables, transport, travel and accommodation, 
per diem
,
supervision costs and salaries of locally contracted staff, but excluding salaries 
of officials of the Recipient’s civil service; and 
(d) 
the term “Training” means the expenses incurred on 
per diem
,
travel, 
purchase of training materials and rental of facilities, and includes workshops and 
seminars. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: 
(a) 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  
(b) 
for a Subproject or a Micro-project unless the Subproject Grant or the 
Micro-project Grant has been made in accordance with the criteria and 
on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Project Manuals and 
the provisions of part D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
4. 
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of the 
provisions of a letter issued by the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, which provides for an 
exemption of taxes and customs duties levied in the territory of the Recipient on works, 
goods and services for this Project. If any change is made to said letter which has the 
effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such works, goods and services, the 
percentages referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. 
Page  17
-
16
-
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for contracts for: (a) services of 
consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services of individual 
consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; (c) works and goods not exceeding 
$250,000 equivalent each; (d) Facilitating Services Contracts entered into with 
Facilitating Agents not exceeding $500,000 equivalent each; (e) training; (f) operating 
costs; and (g) Subprojects not exceeding $100,000, under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
6. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the  
six-month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Accounts
1. 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in  
United States Dollars three special deposit accounts (Special Accounts A, B and C) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments 
out of the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and with the Project Manuals, and shall be managed by the 
fiduciary department of NCU. 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Eligible Categories” means for Special Account A, 
 
categories 1, 2, 3 and 5, for Special Account B, categories 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, and for Special 
Account C, category 4, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
Page  18
-
17
-
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
4. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph B.3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in paragraph A.6 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
6. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Part B.3 of this Schedule if, at any time, 
the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
7. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Accounts was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall 
Page  19
-
18
-
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Accounts shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Accounts will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
8. 
Upon completion of a financial management system review, to be found 
satisfactory by the Association, to evaluate the financial management system in place in 
each PCU, the Recipient may additionally open and maintain in Unites States Dollars, for 
the benefit of each PCU, one Second Generation Account of Special Account B, each in a 
commercial bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and or attachment, and to be managed in 
accordance with the Project Manuals by the fiduciary department of NCU. 
9. 
(a) The Recipient shall withdraw from Special Account B and deposit into each 
Second Generation Account funds to assist each PCU to pay for Subproject Grants or 
Micro-Projects Grants. Such withdrawals and deposits shall be in amounts sufficient to 
assist each PCU in the manner contemplated in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to pay for 
such Subproject Grants or Micro-Projects Grants in due course, provided that, at no time, 
shall the Recipient cause the amount held in any Second Generation Account to exceed  
$350,000. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal from any Second Generation Account must be justified 
to the Recipient by the same documentation and other evidence regarding eligible 
expenditures required pursuant to paragraph B.4 of this Schedule. 
(c) 
If the Association or the Recipient shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Second Generation Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the relevant PCU shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association or the Recipient, refund to Special Account B such outstanding 
amount. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account A pursuant to paragraph B.3 of this Annex. 
2. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account B pursuant to paragraph B.3 of this Annex. 
3. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account C pursuant to paragraph B.3 of this Annex. 
4. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Accounts of an 
amount or amounts, which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Accounts such amount, as the 
Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Accounts at such intervals, as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph B.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Accounts such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to be paid out of the Special Accounts 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Accounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
Page  21
-
20
-
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Accounts shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Accounts an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.6 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to mitigate the negative impact of the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic on the development of the Recipient through: (a) reducing the risk of sexual, 
intravenous and vertical transmission of HIV; (b) improving the health status and quality 
of life of PLWHA; and (c) mitigating the socio-economic impact of the epidemic on 
vulnerable population groups. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A
:
Response of the public sector
1. 
Supporting the MoH in the consolidation and expansion of HIV/AIDS related 
activities through the preparation and implementation of annual sectoral Work Plans, 
Subprojects and Micro-Projects in areas related to prevention, care, treatment and 
mitigation as defined in more details in the Project Manuals, and including but not 
limited to (a) safety of blood transfusions, prevention of mother-to-child transmission, 
treatment of STDs and opportunistic infections, voluntary testing and counseling (VTC), 
and condom promotion/distribution; (b) safe access to anti-retroviral (ARV) drugs;  
(c) development of norms and standards and policies formulation, including for legal 
protection of PLWHA or people affected by HIV/AIDS; (d) epidemiological surveillance 
and research; (e) capacity building; (f) information, education and communication 
campaigns; and (g) studies on the quantitative and qualitative impacts of the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic. 
2. 
Supporting the preparation and implementation by MDAs and other public 
entities of annual sectoral Work Plans covering their personnel and client base, and, as 
the case may be, of Subprojects and Micro-Projects in areas related to prevention, care, 
treatment and mitigation as defined in more details in the Project Manuals, and including 
but not limited to: (a) safety of blood transfusions, prevention of mother-to-child 
transmission, treatment of STDs and opportunistic infections, voluntary testing and 
counseling (VTC), and condom promotion/distribution; (b) safe access to anti-retroviral 
(ARV) drugs; (c) development of norms and standards and policies formulation, 
including for legal protection of PLWHA or people affected by HIV/AIDS; 
 
(d) epidemiological surveillance and research; (e) capacity building; (f) information, 
education and communication campaigns; and (g) studies on the quantitative and 
qualitative impacts of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Part B
:
Response of the non-governmental sector
1. 
Supporting the mobilization of the private sector and public enterprises in the 
fight against HIV/AIDS, through prevention, care, treatment and mitigation activities as 
defined in more details in the Project Manuals, and including but not limited to:  
(a) information and communication campaigns; (b) preparation and implementation of 
Work Plans by Apex Organizations and large enterprises; (c) preparation and 
implementation of Subprojects and Micro-projects by small, medium and large 
enterprises; (d) studies of the epidemic’s impact on enterprises and on growth;  
(e) development of a strategy for promoting and distributing condoms through 
commercial channels; and (f) research and development addressing supply chains for 
medical inputs and the development of national production thereof. 
2. 
Supporting the mobilization of NGOs, religious groups, beneficiary associations 
and professional organizations in the fight against HIV/AIDS, through prevention, care, 
treatment and mitigation activities as defined in more details in the Project Manuals, and 
including but not limited to: (a) information and communication campaigns; 
 
(b) preparation and implementation of Work Plans by Apex; (c) preparation and 
implementation of Subprojects and Micro-projects by NGOs, religious groups, 
beneficiary associations and professional organizations; (d) structuring, strengthening and 
expanding associations of PLWHA; and (e) structuring, strengthening and expanding 
NGOs and associations involved in various AIDS-related activities. 
Part C
:
Support to community initiatives
Supporting the mobilization of communities in the fight against HIV/AIDS 
through (a) preparation, implementation and management activities by CBOs of 
Subprojects and Micro-projects aimed at HIV/AIDS prevention, provision of care and 
support, and mitigation of health and socio-economic impacts, and (b) capacity building 
activities. 
Part D
:
Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation, Communication, Capacity Building
1. 
Strengthening the institutional and operational capacity of NCU, PCUs 
and LCUs through: (a) supporting operating costs and acquisition of vehicles, 
office space, goods and equipment; and (b) provision of training on procurement, 
disbursement, financial management and monitoring and evaluation. 
2. 
 Carrying out the activities under Project Manuals through the provision of 
technical advisory services to NCU, PCUs and LCUs.  
3. 
Carrying out financial and technical audits of the Project, NCU, PCUs and LCUs 
through the provision of technical advisory services. 
Page  25
-
24
-
4. 
Carrying out  activities related to the development and implementation of a 
communication strategy for HIV/AIDS control activities under the Project and on the 
Recipient’s territory.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2010. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, goods and works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost more than $50,000 and less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, but 
less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International and National Shopping
:
Page  27
-
26
-
(a) Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and  
(b) ARVs reagents, laboratory equipment and other HIV/AIDS related drugs estimated to 
cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international and national shopping procedures respectively in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
:
Reagents for HIV/AIDS and blood transfusion security of a proprietary nature or 
to be compatible with existing e
quipment may, with the Association’s prior agreement, 
be procured from the original supplier, or from FEDECAM subject to the carrying out of 
a
procurement capacity assessment satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
During the start period of the Project, HIV/AIDS-related health commodities, 
such as drugs including ARV and reagents (hemoglobin, hepatitis, RTD) and medical 
supplies, tests equipment (Elisa), blood-taking/giving sets, milk substitutes, antiseptics, 
anti-TB drugs, and condoms can be procured from the United Nations Agencies (WHO, 
UNICEF, UNFPA, etc.) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines. Other goods such as computers and vehicles may also be procured from 
IAPSO. 
5. Subprojects 
and 
Micro-projects
Goods and works required for Subprojects and Micro-projects under 
 
Parts A and B of the Project and for Micro-projects under Parts A through C of the 
Project may, subject to conditions defined in the Project Manuals, pursuant to paragraph 
3.15 of the Guidelines, be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association as set forth in Project Manuals. 
7. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. However, the condition 
that quotations have been received from at least three qualified contractors shall not be 
mandatory for works estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract in 
Page  28
-
27
-
remote areas where the competition conditions may not allow such quotations to be 
presented, provided best efforts were made to obtain quotations.
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more;  (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more; and (c) the first three contracts for goods and works awarded under 
National Competitive Bidding procedures, and the first three contracts for goods awarded 
under International and National Shopping
procedures under Section I Part C, paragraph 
2
(b) of this procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  29
-
28
-
2. The 
following 
p
rovision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for research and interventions targeted to vulnerable groups estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and for training estimated to costs less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services of consultants for activities such as the transfer of funds, monitoring and 
evaluation, support to the refugees and services provided by Facilitating Agents under 
Facilitating Services Contracts may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every six (6) 
months during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
Page  30
-
29
-
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each Facilitating Services Contracts entered with a 
Facilitating Agent estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.  
(d) 
Training programs prepared under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  31
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Part A
:
Overall Project Implementation
1. 
Within no more than two months of the Effective Date, the Recipient shall take 
all measures necessary on its part to organize, in conjunction with the Association, a 
workshop for the launching of the Project which shall cover, 
inter alia
,
disbursement and 
procurement procedures and detailed timetables for the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in Project Manuals; and  
(b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, Project Manuals, or any 
provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
SC, LSCs, NCU, PCUs, LCUs and MDAs
The Recipient shall ensure that, at all times during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
SC meets every semester; 
(b) 
NCU prepares for SC, with sufficient advance before such meetings, a 
report regarding the implementation of the Project during the preceding 
semester; 
(c) SC, 
LSCs,
NCU, PCUs and LCUs shall be established and operating in 
compliance with the provisions of the Project Implementation 
Décret
 and 
of the Project Manuals; 
(d) 
SC and LSCs shall ensure a general oversight of the Project and 
performance assessment; and NCU, in collaboration with PCUs and 
LCUs, and under guidance of SC shall be responsible for annual 
planning and programming, day to day coordination and implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation, and reporting of the Project; NCU shall carry 
out procurement activities in compliance with the Project Manuals; 
(e) 
SC, LSCs NCU, PCUs and LCUs, shall be maintained with functions and 
composition (including qualifications and experience of personnel) 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(f) 
staff within MDAs in charge of the implementation of any parts of the 
Project have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
Page  32
-
31
-
(g) 
the relevant MDAs shall collaborate with NCU, PCUs and LCUs in 
compliance with the provisions of Project Manuals in order to ensure 
proper implementation of the Project.  
Part B
:
Safeguard Policies
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the MWMP, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provision of the said plan, if such amendment or waiver may, in the 
opinion of the Association materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
Part C
:
Work Plans
1. 
The Work Plans prepared under Part A or Part B of the Project shall be submitted 
by each proposed Beneficiary to NCU, PCU or LCU, as the case may be, for appraisal 
and approval, in compliance with the Project Manuals. 
2. 
The selected Work Plan must meet the eligibility criteria set forth in Project 
Manuals, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) the proposed activities and Beneficiary must be 
eligible; (b) the Work Plan implementation period must not exceed one year; and  
(c) the Beneficiary must have the legal capacity to contract under the laws of the 
Recipient. 
3. 
Following receipt of the approved Work Plan, and prior to any financing of 
activities under the Work Plan, NCU, PCU or LCU, as the case may be, enter into, in the 
event the Beneficiary is the MoH or  a MDA, a Performance Based Agreement, in other 
cases a Performance Based Contract with each Beneficiary under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association and defined in the Project Manuals, which, 
inter alia
,
shall 
include the following: 
(a) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out activities under the Work 
Plan in accordance with Project Manuals with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental, public health and managerial standards, and to maintain 
adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Work Plan;  
(b) 
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in compliance with  
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and used exclusively in carrying out 
activities agreed upon under the Work Plan; 
Page  33
-
32
-
(c) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, or if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites 
or plants financed under the Work Plan, the operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents; 
(d) 
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial management of activities under the Work Plan; 
(e) 
the right of the Recipient, as the case may be, to suspend or terminate the 
right of the Beneficiary to use or benefit from the proceeds of the Grant 
upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under 
the Work Plan and, as the case may be, the Performance Based 
Agreement or the Performance Based Contract
;
and 
(f) 
the right to receive from the Beneficiary quarterly (or any other period 
agreed upon by the Association) progress reports reflecting, 
inter alia
,
the Work Plan’s performance indicators, and a final report upon 
completion of the Work Plan. 
Part D
:
Subproject and Micro-project Approval Procedures and Eligibility Criteria
1. 
The Subproject and Micro-project proposals shall be submitted by each proposed 
Beneficiary to NCU, or the respective PCU or LCU, as the case may be, for approval 
based on rules and criteria set forth in the Project Manuals. 
2. 
The selected Subprojects or Micro-projects must meet the eligibility criteria set 
forth in Project Manuals, including but not limited to: (a) the proposed activities and 
Beneficiary must be eligible; (b) the Subproject or Micro-project implementation period 
must not exceed one year; and (c) the Beneficiary must have the capacity to contract 
under the laws of the Recipient. 
3. 
Following receipt of the approved Subproject or Micro-project proposals, and 
prior to the disbursement of any Subgrants or Micro-grants to the Beneficiaries, NCU, 
PCU or LCU, as the case may be, shall enter into a Subgrant or Micro-grant Agreement 
with each Beneficiary under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, 
inter alia
,
shall include the following: 
(a) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the Subproject or Micro-
project in accordance with Project Manuals with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental, public health and managerial 
standards, and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Subprojects or Micro-projects; 
Page  34
-
33
-
(b) 
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Subgrant or Micro-grant shall be used exclusively in carrying out the 
Subproject or Micro-project; 
(c) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites or plants included 
in the Subproject or Micro-project, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
(d) 
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and financial 
management of the Subproject or Micro-project; 
(e) 
the right of the Recipient, as the case may be, to suspend or terminate the 
right of the Beneficiary to use or benefit from the use of the proceeds of the Subgrant or 
Micro-grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subgrant Agreement or Micro-grant Agreement; and 
(f) 
the right to receive from the Beneficiary quarterly (or any other period 
agreed upon by the Association) progress reports reflecting, 
inter alia
,
the Subproject or 
Micro-project performance indicators, and a final report upon completion of the 
Subproject or Micro-project. 
E. Facilitating 
Agents
The Recipient shall cause NCU, PCU or LCU, as the case may be, jointly with 
the relevant Beneficiary: 
(a) 
select Facilitating Agents that are acceptable to the Association in 
accordance with the procurement procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
and meet the respective criteria set forth in Project Manuals, including 
inter alia 
that they 
must have: (A) proven experience in comparable activities in the territory of the 
Recipient; and (B) experience in carrying out the procurement of goods, works and 
services; 
(b) 
enter into a Facilitating Services Contract with each Facilitating Agent in 
a
form and substance that is satisfactory to the Association describing 
inter alia
 the 
functions to be undertaken by such agents, setting forth dated objectives to be attained 
and performance indicators, and setting forth financial and procurement methods, in 
compliance with the Project Manuals; unless as otherwise agreed to by the Association; 
and 
(c) 
ensure that each Facilitating Agent report to NCU, PCU or LCU, 
as the case may be, and the relevant Beneficiary on a quarterly basis (or any other 
Page  35
-
34
-
period agreed upon by the Association) on the financial and operational progress 
of the activities undertaken. 
F. 
Reports and Midterm Review
1. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
carry out an annual review of the progress in implementation during the 
previous year, having regard to the monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) 
of this paragraph, no later than February 15 of each year of Project implementation; and 
 
(c) 
following each review referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, 
act promptly and diligently to take any corrective action agreed with the Association to 
remedy any shortcomings identified in implementation, in furtherance of the objectives of 
the Project. 
2. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
On or about thirty six months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall 
carry out jointly with the Association, SC, LSCs, NCU, PCUs and LCUs, a midterm 
review of the progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the 
Midterm Review). 
 
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
(i) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and 
(ii) 
overall Project performance against Project performance 
indicators. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause NCU to prepare and, at least six weeks prior to 
the Midterm Review, furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall, not later than six weeks after the Midterm Review, 
prepare and submit to the Association an action program, acceptable to the Association, 
for the further implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm 
Review and, thereafter, implement such action program. 
Page  36
-
35
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Modifications to the General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term 
“credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a)  
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment 
charge”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
Page  37
-
36
-
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (a) 
(ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement or any 
development credit agreement or development financing agreement.” 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read: “any development grant agreement, development credit 
agreement or development financing agreement”. 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
Page  38
-
37
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Monitoring Indicators 
1. 
Prevention related activities
By the end of the Project, 60 % of the sex workers targeted by the Project report 
using condoms during their last sexual encounter;  
(b) 
By the end of the Project, at least 35% of pregnant women have access to 
Mother-to-Child transmission prevention program; and  
(c) 
By the end of the Project, 70% of donated blood is tested for HIV and Hepatitis 
B&C.
 
2. 
Activities related to the quality of life of PLWHA
(a) 
By the end of the Project, 20,000 PLWHA receive quality medical treatment; and 
(b) 
By the end of the Project, 50% of target health zones have community services 
for PLWHA available. 
3. 
Activities related to the mitigation of impact of HIV/AIDS
(a) 
By the end of the Project, 20% of orphans are assisted with tuition and schooling; 
and 
(b) 
By the end of the Project, discrimination against PLWHA (as defined in DHS+) 
is reduced by 30%. 
 
