Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11283
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
EDUCATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1519-ZR)
OCTOBER 16, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Zaire (Z)
US$ 1.00           =   Z 5.86 (December 1982)
US$ 1.00            =   Z 55.79 (December 1985)
US$ 1.00           =   Z 450.073 (November 1989)
Z 10(.00            =   US$ 0.222 (November 1989)
SDR 1.00            =   US$ 1.321 (January 1990)
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1st - December 31st
ACADEMIC YEAR
Scptcmber - June
ABBREVIATIONS
BPE          Bureau des Projets Education (Project Implementation Unit)
L)EPS        Departement de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire (Ministry of
Primarv and Sccondary Education) also referred to as the Department
P'RAIGEUI   Projet d'Appui aux Institutions de Gestion Economique et Financi6re
(Assistancc to Economic Management)
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SECOPE       Service de Contr6lc et de la Paie des Enseignants (Teachcr Pay Service)



FOR oMCIUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Genwral
Operauons Evolustion
October 16, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Zaire Education Technical
Assistance and Training Proiect (Credit 1519-ZR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Zaire Education Technical Assistance and Training Project
(Credit 1519-ZR)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR omcLAL USE ONLY
PRJECr COMPLEnION REORT
ZAIRE
EDUCAIION TCICAL ASSSTANCE AND 1RAININ PROJECr
(CREDrr 1519-ZR)
TBEOF ON1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1
PRE FA CEnO    SU            M R ...........................................................  ii
EV L A IN_IM                      R     .............................................iii 
L PROJECr IDENIT`Y .............................................. 1
IL BACKGROUND .................................................. 1
IL PROJECT OBJECUIVES AND DECR ON.                                                ......................... 2
Project objectives ...............................................  2
Project components .............................................. 2
TV. IPROJBCr DESIGN  AND  ORGANIZATION  ...........................   3
V. PROJECTE MWPLE3MENTATION   ...........                                   ..........................   4
Duration of the Project . .......................................... 4
Major changes that arose during implementation  .......................   5
Project risks ...................................................   6
VL  PRO EBCr CSTS M             AND  FINANCING   ................................   6
Project cost ...................................................                                           6
Cedit allocation   . ..............................................   6
Digbumements ................................................. 6
VEL PROJECr RESULTS ... .                              ................................... 7
Results relating to data collection and processing .......................   7
Results relating to school mapping  ..........                        ........................   7
Results relating to the functional reorganization of the DEPS  .....                           ........   7
Results relating to technical education  ...............................   8
Results relating to training  ..............                    ..........................   8
Results relating to the school textbook polcy ..........................   8
Results relating to technical asistance  ...............................   9
Impact and sustainability of project achievements .......................   9
VIBL PARTICIPANT PERFORMANCE .................................. 9
IDA Performance ............................................... 9
Borrower Performance ........................................... 10
Project Relationships .             ..........................................    10
Technical asistance  .            ...........................................    11
Documentation and data rmlating to the project .......................   11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their o(ficial duts. Its contents may not otherwise be disclo o without World Bank authorization.



Dt CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS ...................................  11
Lessons to be drawn  ...........................................  12
PART II: A REV[EW OF THE PROJECr FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE  ..............................................   13
L  INrRODUCnON  ................................................   13
IL PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION  ........................  13
Project Components ............................................   14
Im   PROJECT DESIGN AND EXECUTION  .............................  15
Project Design ................................................   15
Relevance of project components ..........           ........................  15
Scope of operations ............................................  15
Project implementation .     .........................................   15
Preparation  ................................................    15
Performance of the Government ..................................  16
Performance of IDA  ...........................................  16
Recommendations for future projects ...............................  17
BORROWER'S OBSERVATIONS ON PART I OF THE PCR ....                             ............  18
BORROWER'S OBSERVATIONS ON PART m  OF THE PCR  ....                             ..........  19
PART m: STATISTICAL IN'FORMATION
Table 1       IDA Credits Relevant to the Project
Table 2   :  Planned and Actual Dates of Project Timetable
Table 3   :  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Figure 1      Estimated Disbursements at Appraisal, Revised and Actual (by Fiscal Year)
Table 4       Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Components
Table 5       Project Costs (by component)
Table 5(a):   Project Costs (by disbursement category)
Table 6       Project Financing
Table 7   :  Planned, Revised and Actual Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Figure 2      Planned and Actual Credit Allocations
Table 8   :  Training provided by the Project
Table 9   :  Infrastructure, Goods and Equipment
Table 10      Studies
Table 11  :  Compliance with Credit Covenants
Table 12      Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks
Table 13  :  IDA Mission Data by Stages of Project
Table 14:  Annual and Cumulative Disbursements (in SDRs)
Table 15  :  Exchange Rate Fluctuations



PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
EDUCATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROJECr
(CREDIT 1519 - ZR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Education Technical Assistance
and Training Project in Zaire, for which Credit 1519-ZR in the sum of US$9 million
equivalent (SDR8.6 million) was approved by the Executive Directors on April 9, 1985. The
Credit Closing Date, originally March 31, 1988, was postponed three times to March 31, 1991
at the Government's request. The Credit Account was kept open a few more months to
honor withdrawal applications arising from commitments made before the final revised
Closing Date. The last disbursement was made on August 19, 1991 and an undisbursed
balance of SDR812,454.68 was canceled.
2.    This PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human Resources Division of
the South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
3.    Preparation of this report was based, inter alia on the following sources: the
President's Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, audit reports, correspondence
between the Association and the Borrower, the Project Implementation Monitoring System
(PMIS), and discussions with representatives of the Borrower in the field. Comments were
also obtained from the IDA task managers/project staff who identified, prepared, appraised
and supervised the project.



I



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLEPILON REPORT
ZAIRE
EDUCATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROJECr
(CREDIT 1519-ZR)
EVALUATION STNMMARY
ProJect Background and Objectives
1.    Among the major problems confronting the education sector in Zaire during the early
eighties, those relating to management (adininistrative, financial and pedagogical
management) figured prominently. Ineffective organizational structures, underdeveloped
managerial and planning capacities and poor information systems all tended to undermine the
effectiveness of the education system. The capacity to monitor both the efficiency and
effectiveness of the different educational programs and address identified issues was weak.
Meanwhile, the existing information system in the Department of Primary and Secondary
Education (DEPS) was inadequate because information flows were often haphazard,
inaccurate and disorganized. Data were collected which were not directly related to decision-
making and achievement of educational objectives.  Non-utilization and inadequate
dissemination, and inability to analyze and interpret data led to bottlenecks in the design of
policy and planning. Furthermore, development of the productive sectors of the economy was
constrained by the poor quality of technicians produced by the technical education and
vocational training system. In general, many of the technical education and vocational
training institutions were inefficient and ran inadequate programs. Quality of training was low
as a result of an under-qualified teaching corps, insufficient and outdated equipment and
scarcity of teaching materials. It was against this background that the Zaire Education
Technical Assistance and Training Project was developed to assist the DEPS in improving its
capabilities in planning, administration and management of the system and, thereby, its ability
to provide more efficient and higher quality education. To that end, the project's specific
objectives were to:
(a)   strengthen educational planning by introducing a procedure for the systematic
collection of data and developing a school-mapping methodology;
(b)   strengthen educational administration and management by analyzing the
administrative structure of DEPS, formulating a plan for its reorganization,
training staff and providing means of transportation and communication;
(c)   improve the efficiency and quality of education through a survey of technical
schools, preparing programs to upgrade their teachers and testing new
methods of production, distribution and cost recovery for school textbooks.
2.    The project consisted of seven basic components: (i) organization, testing and
evaluation of data collection and processing; acquisition of equipment and supplies, and
training of personnel involved in those activities; (ii) pilot operations to establish a school



- iv -
map in two areas; evaluation of the operations with a view to the formulation of a general
methodology; (iii) production and distribution of 200,000 textbooks; training of necessary
personnel; evaluation of the operation; (iv) survey of technical and vocational schools with
a view to formulating and implementing refresher training programs for teachers and
improving training programs; (v) analysis of the DEPS's administrative and financial
procedures in order to propose and implement reforms to the Department's structures and
procedures; training of personnel and provision of means of transportation and radio
communication; (vi) training of 2,800 school principals and inspectors; (vii) establishment of
a Data Processing Unit, installation of equipment and development of appropriate software.
Implementation Experience
3.    Implementation took three years longer than the three-year period envisaged during
appraisal. This significant delay was due primarily to: (a) a shortage of government
counterpart funds in relation to estimated needs and their tardy disbursements; (b) delays in
recruiting consultants and numerous turnovers in long-term expertise; (c) poor quality of the
work produced by certain experts and/or their Zairian counterparts; (d) lack of knowledge
and experience on the part of DEPS officials to monitor such an operation and lack of
information and documentation about various aspects of the project; more specifically, the
Coordinating Committee created to supervise the project locally did not function adequately;
(e) absenteeism and a lack of professionalism of staff involved in implementation; (f) gaps in
project management by the BPE, in particular as regards procurement and accounting.
Disbursements were thus slower than estimated at appraisal, but nevertheless they were
regular owing to the large share (60%) represented by technical assistance costs. The credit
was closed on March 31, 1991 and the last disbursement made on August 19, 1991. An
undisbursed balance of about 10% of the Credit was canceled.
Project Results
4.    In general, project results were fairly disappointing given the fact that some aspects
of the main objectives of the project were not achieved. First, the DEPS could not be
reorganized owing in part to delays and the poor quality of the study of its structures and
procedures and in part to a lack of commitment on the part of the authorities to make
changes. Secondly, none of the activities regarding technical education was carried out owing
to a lack of counterpart funds, as well as the mediocrity of expertise in charge of that
component.
5.    The Project did however achieve the following results: (a) acquisition and satisfactory
distribution of nearly 190,000 textbooks involving the participation of the various conventional
church-affiliated networks involved in the management of the education system; the success
of this operation pointed to the fact that further success was possible in any future operation
aimed at distributing teaching materials to schools (virtually nonexistent at present)
notwithstanding the country's size and poor communication network; (b) extensive data
collection on the system and preparation of a statistical yearbook; this was the first nearly
exhaustive database to be produced since about a decade (the previous publication of data
on the system was produced about 11 years before that); (c) the short-lived school-mapping
pilot operations; (d) the establishment of a Data Processing Unit capable of computerized
management of the education system; however, the unit's survival after the project now
depends on staff stability and the availability of resources for supplies, maintenance and
operation; (e) the survival of SECOPE following the withdrawal of assistance by the initial



v -
donor; the project's support to SECOPE made it possible to maintain the improvement in
teacher payroll procedures and the control of the opening and closing of schools; (f) the
training abroad of 28 higher-level staff of the DEPS; however, the fact that 90% of in-country
training was not carried out is regrettable and attributable to a shortage of counterpart funds
and the mediocrity of technical expertise in this area; (g) the preparation of a subsequent
education project focusing mainly on the distribution of textbooks and teacher training.
Sustainability of Project Accomplishments
6.     There is doubt as to whether or not project accomplishments are sustainable. For
example, the probability that the Data Processing Unit created under the project would
survive for long is low because of the likelihood of turnover of project-trained personnel and
the fact that funds for operation and maintenance may not be readily available after the
project. However, the support provided to SECOPE under the project ensured the
operational survival of that unit. SECOPE's activities and high level of efficiency may be a
source of hope for the future especially in controlling the opening and closing of schools as
well as in ensuring that teachers get paid. Meanwhile, the relative success of the distribution
of textbooks is another promising sign brought out by the project since it indicated that future
operations aimed at distributing teaching materials (in short supply at present) could be
successful notwithstanding the country's size and poor communication network. Furthermore,
the training received abroad by DEPS staff now occupying various positions of responsibility
would certainly have sustainable effects.
Conclusions and Lessons
7.     The main reasons for the abandonment or partial completion of key project
components and hence poor results of the project were the inadequacy and repeated delays
in the payment of counterpart funds, poor project management on the part of Zairian
officials, a lack of commitment on the part of the senior officials of the DEPS to change
structures and procedures that they themselves found inadequate, and the poor quality of a
significant proportion of the technical assistance provided for project implementation.
8.     Lessons to be drawn. The main lessons to be drawn from this technical assistance
project can be summarized as follows:
(a)    ensure that the role, responsibilities and results expected of each party
involved in the project are clearly defined and delineated (especially those of
the Project Office and technical assistance specialists responsible for project
implementation);
(b)    prevent certain project components from being dependent on others when
different people are involved or, if unavoidable, schedule start-up activities for
the latter only after sufficient progress has been made in the implementation
of the former;
(c)   limit the scope of the project to changing only those structures or procedures
directly related to the project if it is not certain that political commitment is
absolute or if such structural changes are associated with major social
difficulties;



- v} -
(d)    make sure that the other donors or experts to be involved in project
implementation are closely associated with project preparation; similarly, as
early on as during project preparation, involve those local entities that will
have overall responsibility for the project (e.g. the Coordinating Committee
in this case), making their establishment and operation a condition of credit
negotiation;
(e)    determine, as early as possible during project preparation, the key activities
of the project for which intensive joint supervisions and evaluation during the
course of implementation will be necessary and undertake such evaluations
during implementation as planned, including a joint mid-term review of
progress achieved in carrying out the project;
(f)   to the extent possible, implementation of key elements of the project should
not be made too dependent on the availability of counterpart funds and,
because of that, allocate counterpart funds to project activities that are not
strictly vital to the rapid and efficient achievement of key activities financed
by the credit;
(g)   the opinion and non-objection of IDA should not be limited to the initial
technical assistance contract, but mechanisms should be envisaged through
which IDA's opinion and non-objection would still be sought during
implementation of the contract (through provisions in the technical assistance
contract, joint exaluations etc);
(h)   the project design should be as simple as possible; a simple project that is
closely supervised greatly improves the chances of successful implementation
and achievement of immediate project objectives which, in turn, may influence
the attainment of long-term development objectives; and
(i)   supervision missions should be fielded at appropriate and flexible intervals to
address emerging problems; they should also ensure reasonable continuity in
staff and comprise the necessary specialists competent in the fields covered by
the project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
EDUCATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRANNG PROJECT
(CREDIT 1519-ZR)
PART I: REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM IDA'S PERSPECIIVE
L PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name                  Education Terlnical Assistance and Training Project
Credit No.                :   1519-ZR
Regional Vice Presidency      Africa Region, Country Department III
Country                   :  Zaire
Sector                    :  Education
,. BACKGROUND
1.1    At the time of project preparation, Zaire's economy was experiencing severe trade
balance difficulties, galloping inflation and a considerable budget deficit. However, beginning
in 1983, the Government, with assistance from the International Monetary Fund, World Bank
and Paris Club, sought to resolve these problems and took various measures to improve the
management of the economy and the performance of institutions. Thus, in 1983 Zaire
seemed ready to embark on the path towards progress and determined to take appropriate
measures.
1.2   In the primary and secondary education sub-sector, 98% of the budget was allocated
to wages and salaries, leaving only slightly more than US$5 per year per student for operating,
maintenance, supplies and investment expenditure. The Primary and Secondary Education
Department (Dipartement de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire -- DEPS) was no longer
receiving any significant external financing; the donors gradually had withdrawn their aid,
except as regards technical assistants. This partially accounts for the poor performance of the
DEPS in managing the sector and projects.
1.3    Administration of the primary and secondary education system was very centralized.
Some 4.5 million students in primary schools and 1.4 million in secondary schools were, for
the most part, enrolled in the regions, far from the government concentrated in the capital
city. Eighty percent of primary schools and 65% of secondary schools, however, were church-
affiliated and the Government had signed agreements (conventions) with these churches
assigning them only the daily management of the schools. DEPS decided on the opening of
new schools, paid the teachers and recruited them in accordance with regulations that were
often skirted, resulting in a teacher/student ratios (1/23 in primary schools and 1/18 in
secondary schools) that were lower than in many industrial countries. The centralized



- 2 -
management of meager operating budgets as well as school fees resulted in a virtual total
absence of teaching aids (books, supplies) in the schools. The under-qualification of many
teachers and the lack of pedagogical support given the fact that most inspectorates were
bereft of means, also contributed to the deterioration in the quality of education.
1.4    Meanwhile, development of the productive sectors of the economy was constrained
by the poor quality of technicians produced by the technical education and vocational training
system. In general, many of the technical education and vocational training institutions were
inefficient and ran inadequate programs. Quality of training was low as a result of an under-
qualified teaching corps, insufficient and outdated equipment and scarcity of teaching
materials.
1.5    World Bank involvement in the education sector began in 1971 with the First
Education Project (Credit 272-ZR) in the amount of USS6.5 million. Its objectives were to
help reduce the number of under-qualified teachers and other staff in primary education, and
improve the curricula and teaching conditions in selected technical schools. Because of
significant delays during implementation and an increase in costs due to inflation, those
objectives were not fully achieved. A Second Education Project (Credit 624-ZR) for US$21
million was approved in 1976 to increase the system's capability for training rural primary
school teachers and agricultural technicians. The project ran into serious implementation
difficulties and was closed in September 1982 with an undisbursed balance of US$18.8 million
(about 90% of the total credit).
IH. PROJECr OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIMON
1.6   Project objectives. It was against this background that a third education training and
technical assistance project was identified in April 1983. The project was prepared by the
Government, assisted by a consulting firm under a Project Preparation Advance (P262-ZR).
The World Bank appraised the project in February 1984. The main objective of the project
(PR. No. P-3766-ZR of August 15, 1984) was to increase capabilities in planning,
management and administration of the Primary and Secondary Education Department and,
thereby, its ability to provide higher quality and more efficient education.
1.7    To that end, the more specific objectives of the project were to help the Government:
(a) strengthen its education planning by introducing a procedure for systematic data collection
and developing a school-mapping methodology; (b) improve the efficiency and quality of
education through a survey of technical schools, preparing programs to upgrade teachers of
technical subjects, and testing new methods for the production, distribution and cost recovery
of textbooks; (c) strengthening education management and administration by analyzing the
administrative structure of DEPS, formulating a plan for its reorganization, training higher-
level staff, and providing means of transportation and communication.
1.8   Project components. The project included the following components:
(a)    Planning and statistics: Carrying out a program of data collection and analysis,
including the production of statistical forms; training outside of Zaire for



trainers in planning and training in Zaire for regional staff of the DEPS and
school staff; acquisition of equipment and materials for use in the foregoing;
(b)   School mapping: Carrying out pilot school-mapping exercises in the Kenge
area of the Bandundu Region and in the Madimba area of the Bas-Zaire
Region and the development of a school-mapping strategy based on the
results thereof; training outside and inside Zaire in school mapping;
(c)    Production of textbooks: Production and distribution of about 200,000 school
textbooks on mathematics and French language for the first two years of
secondary school in Bas-Zaire and Equateur; training outside of Zaire in such
publishing, production and distribution; evaluation of the textbook program;
(d)   Technical education: Conducting a survey of technical and vocational schools
and the preparation of programs to upgrade their teachers in eight specialties;
training outside and in Zaire in specific fields of technical education;
development and testing of improved technical education programs
(curricula);
(e)   Strengthening of the DEPS: Conducting an analysis of the functional,
administrative and financial structures of the DEPS; modifying its structures
and procedures in conformity with a plan based on the foregoing; training
outside and in Zaire of DEPS staff in budgeting, accounting and education
management; installation of radio communication equipment in Kinshasa and
in the regions, and training of staff in its use and maintenance;
(f)    Training of school principals and inspectors: Formulating and carrying out a
program to train about 2,400 primary and secondary school principals, other
school administrators and inspectors in administration, management, budgeting
and accounting; in addition, providing means of transportation and
communication for inspectors (bicycles, motorcycles, vehicles etc.);
(g)   Data processing: Improving the data-processing capabilities of the DEPS
through the installation of new equipment and the acquisition of new software
programs and materials; training outside and in Zaire in information
management; and the organization of the data-processing services as a
separate administrative unit directly under the responsibility of the Secretary
General of the DEPS.
IV. PROJECI DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.9   The project was designed to respond to two major concerns: the first -- resulting from
the experience of the two previous projects -- was that any investment in education in Zaire
could have an impact only if management of the system by the DEPS were radically
improved; the second -- relating to the findings of a study done by UNESCO in 1981 -- was
the overriding need for technical education to produce skilled technicians suited to the needs
of the productive sector of the economy. In this regard, project objectives seem appropriate.



- 4 -
However, in the initial three-year period envisaged, the project seems to have been overly
ambitious for certain components, given the scope of the studies that were to precede the
operations (in particular, on strengthening management and technical education) and given
the fact that the institutional and functional restructuring of the DEPS should have taken
place prior to some of the training in order for that training to have been meaningful.
1.10   The project preparation documents set forth clearly defined objectives, but only briefly
-- if at all -- do they cover the issue of the national human resources to be mobilized to
achieve those objectives. They also seem to systematically underestimate the necessary time
for carrying out the type of large-scale reforms that were envisaged under the project. In
fact, the inefficiency within the government offices that were going to be responsible for
implementing the project and the need to improve the situation had been one of the project's
justifications. Preparation therefore appears to have lacked pragmatism.
1.11   Owing to the many institutional aspects covered by the project and hence the
involvement of other sectors than education, the establishment of a Coordinating Committee
to monitor the project and resolve implementation difficulties as they arose seemed
apparently useful. It was also a fairly innovative idea. Although established in 1984, it only
began to operate in 1986. Meanwhile, although it was supposed to meet four times a year
during project implementation, there were years when the Coordinating Committee only met
once. These factors may explain why the committee, although well designed, was not
sufficiently involved in project implementation and, consequently, did not have the expected
impact.
1.12   Lastly, the respective role and responsibilities of the Education Project Office (Bureau
du Projet Education -- BPE), other entities (Directions) and the technical assistance agency
responsible for project implementation were not sufficiently delineated. Independent of other
shortcomings of both the BPE and the consulting firm (see para. 1.14), this undoubtedly
largely accounts for certain delays in fulfilling contractual obligations (reports, annual work
plans, etc.), as well as the leniency on the part of the BPE and the Government vis-a-vis the
experts involved in the project. This certainly contributed to some of the poor results of the
project.
1.13   A posteriori, the more rapid involvement of senior officials through the Coordinating
Committee and a clearer delineation of the responsibilities of each party involved would have
certainly enhanced the possibility of the project succeeding notwithstanding the point made
earlier (para. 1.10) that project preparation lacked pragmatism.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.14   Duration of the Project. The Project was to be implemented over three years and the
originally planned Closing Date was March 31, 1988. As it was a technical assistance project,
recruitment of the technical assistance firm was a condition of effectiveness and the contract
was signed on November 12, 1984. Delays in signing the Credit Agreement and initial
deposits in the project account held up effectiveness for some six months, until April 1985.
Delays in implementation led to a first extension of the closing date to March 1989 and the
signature of an addendum to the contract with the technical assistance firm for the duration



- 5 -
of that extension. The project was extended two other consecutive times in order to allow
for finishing various aspects of the project nearing completion (in particular as regards data
processing) and to prepare the next education project. The project was closed on March 31,
1991. Six main reasons can be given for the delays in implementation: (a) primarily, a
constant shortage of government counterpart funds in relation to estimated needs and tardy
disbursements; (b) delays in recruiting consultants and numerous turnovers in expertise; (c)
poor quality of the work produced by certain experts and/or their Zairian counterparts, which
meant that some of the work had to be re-done and the outputs delayed (for example, the
study of the DEPS) or even abandonment of aspects of the project (training of principals and
inspectors as well as many technical education activities); (d) lack of interest on the part of
DEPS officials to project monitoring, which undermined the work of the Coordinating
Committee; this led to slow processing of documentation within the Ministry (study on the
reorganization of the DEPS) and/or in other government offices (request for funds and
competitive bidding process, in particular); (e) absenteeism and a lack of professionalism
among Government officials; (f) weaknesses in project management by the BPE, in particular
as regards procurement and accounting.
1.15   Major changes that arose during implementation. The major changes made mid-
stream to the project in relation to the initial components described in para. 1.8 were as
follows:
(a)    Support to SECOPE (Service de la Paie des Enseignants -- Teacher Payroll
Office) in the last two years, through the provision of additional equipment
and technical assistance. The inclusion of that Office in the last phase of the
project was due primarily to its efficiency in pursuing certain major objectives
set initially for the Project (control of the opening of new schools,
management of recruitment, career monitoring and teacher payroll,
establishment of a radio communications network with the regions, collection
of data on the education system). A second justification was the overriding
need to maintain the key gains by the Office when the assistance of the initial
donor was withdrawn following political difficulties between Zaire and that
country. Before giving its non-objection to involvement in this activity, IDA
got assurances that the initial donor also had no objection to such
involvement.
(b)   Inclusion of a third pilot region for school mapping to replace the satellite
coverage initially planned;
(c)    Scaling down of the study on technical education owing to a shortage of
counterpart funds and the considerable delays in the project;
(d)    Elimination of the analysis of budgeting procedures within the DEPS because
similar studies were being carried out for the government by the PRAIGEFI
project;
(e)    Elimination of computerization of teacher payroll following the establishment
within the DEPS of an office responsible for that operation (SECOPE,
established with the support of another donor).



- 6 -
1.16   Project risks. Two major risks had been identified in the President's Report, namely
the ability of DEPS to carry out the project given weaknesses in its management capacity and
the political commitment of the Government to change the way in which the DEPS operated.
These two risks did in fact become reality and were in fact underestimated since they caused
further substantial delays in implementing the project. A third risk had also been identified,
concerning the reliability of available data, but that risk proved to be minor, since the
reliability of the data collected by the statistical surveys proved to be fairly good, as shown by
cross-checking with data collected independently by SECOPE. It is astonishing that the
shortage of counterpart funds was not viewed as a major risk during appraisal, because it was
one of the lessons drawn from the first project and one of the factors in the suspension of
the second. Meanwhile, in order to minimize project risks, a joint annual review of
implementation was called for in the President's Report. As shown by Bank mission reports
(Table 13 of Part III), this did take place only once in 1986 when an intensive supervision
mission was fielded. Held annually, such missions would have made it possible to efficiently
revitalize the project by encouraging firmness on the part of Zairian officials vis-a-vis both
the experts whose performance was substandard and the officials of the offices involved in
the project.
VL PROJECT COSIh AND FINANCING
1.17   Project cost. Total project cost, including contingencies and taxes, was estimated at
some US$10.7 million, of which US$1.7 million in local costs and US$9 million in foreign
exchange. The World Bank Credit was for SDR 8.6 million (US$9 million). Of that amount,
a total of SDR 7.8 million was actually disbursed during project implementation. Most of the
undisbursed share of the Credit (SDR 0.8 million) represents either local training not carried
out (Part F of the project, see para. 1.18), the acquisition of equipment associated with that
training or the publication of the two statistical yearbooks that were not issued.
1.18   Credit allocation. The credit allocations estimated at appraisal and those from
subsequent revisions (1988 and 1990) are shown in Table 7 of Part III. They can be
compared with the actual breakdown of the Credit given in the same table. The table shows
that the categories where actual amounts spent significantly exceeded projections are
rehabilitation works, vehicles for inspectors and consultant services. In the first case, although
certain premises were not rehabilitated, the overrun was due to an increase in construction
costs in Zaire, owing to a higher than projected inflation during implementation of the
project. In the second case (vehicles for inspectors), the higher cost was due to errors in
procurement which led to the cancellation of a first bidding process and the recruitment of
international expertise to help elaborate new bidding documents. In the third case, the
overrun occurred as a result of successive addenda to the contract with the technical
assistance firm so that actual duration exceeded the initially planned duration of technical
assistance; meanwhile, additional expertise was required to complete certain elements of the
project (data processing) and to assist the Government in the preparation of a subsequent
education project.  The categories for which disbursements were significantly below
projections correspond to those parts of the project that were not carried out (see para. 1.15).
1.19   Disbursements. Estimated and actual (cumulative) disbursements under the Credit
are shown on Table 3 of Part III. In general, it can be seen that from the outset of the



- 7 -
project and throughout its duration, disbursements were less rapid than planned, but very
regular throughout the first four years. This was due to the large share (60%) represented
by the cost of technical assistance.
VIL PROJECT RESULTS
(See Table 4 of Part III for the data relating to the results)
1.20   Results relating to data collection and processing. The results relating to this
component are very mixed.  One of the first results is the satisfactory rehabilitation
(infrastructure, furnishings, air conditioning and electrification) of the premises in which the
data processing unit is housed. As regards statistics and data processing, the feasibility of
relatively reliable surveys has been proven. Data processing software were developed and are
now in operation. A statistical yearbook was published in 1989 (i.e. 11 years after the last
one available). However, this success was quite limited since two other planned publications
of the statistical yearbook were never undertaken. Furthermore, the data collection and
dissemination networks established by the project proved to be cumbersome and costly, and
subsequent activities (in 1991) used the network established by SECOPE, which is more
efficient and easier to manage. Data processing was developed, under contract with a
technical assistance firm, after the departure of the firm initially recruited for that purpose.
However, the computer hardware within the office, which has been made a Direction owing
to the project, is cumbersome (super minicomputer HP 3000). It requires highly skilled
personnel whose stability is not ensured given the low pay and limited career incentives in the
civil service. Furthermore, it requires imported materials for operation (which are difficult
to acquire) and a special environment (air conditioning, security, maintenance). All of these
imply large operating expenditures. Although the initial choice of hardware was judicious at
the time of project appraisal, the foreseeable delays in the rehabilitation works of the
premises would have undoubtedly justified postponing the ordering of the equipment (which
remained in storage for nearly two and a half years). This would certainly have meant the
selection of a different and probably more appropriate type of computer, given the rapid
evolution in computer technology.
1.21   As regards school mapping, a pilot operation was carried out and a methodology
manual prepared. However, these documents have been filed away and did not have any
impact on the management of the education system in the region in question. A posteriori,
it appears that the methods were too cumbersome and sophisticated for the circumstances
existing in the country for which simple and pragmatic approaches are more appropriate.
Such was the approach adopted by SECOPE, which justifies the support provided belatedly
by the project to that office.
1.22   Results relating to the functional reorganization of the DEPS.  A study with
recommendations for the administrative and financial reorganization of DEPS was carried out
and submitted to the Government in June 1987. As regards administrative reorganization.
the report was put on the back burner and has now been dropped once and for all because
of the political implications of its recommendations, in particular those regarding the
deployment of personnel and decentralization. For the record, that part of the project ran
into considerable delays because the first version of the study and recommendations were
deemed by the World Bank to be of substandard professional quality. With regard to



- 8 -
financial reorganization, work on the budgeting study ceased because it was felt to be
premature owing to the development of similar and broader exercises under the PRAIGEFI
project.
1.23   As regards expenditure procedures, the teacher payroll was the most important aspect
because of the considerable percentage that this heading represents of the DEPS's budget
and because of the large number of fictitious teachers suggested by the data available during
appraisal (para. 1.3). Because of delays in the installation of the computer hardware, the
project was not able to develop the computerization of that procedure as scheduled.
However, as of 1990 the Credit started providing support to activities developed by SECOPE
within the DEPS (see para. 1.15). Thus, following the withdrawal of the initial donor, the
Credit helped maintain the operations of SECOPE, one of whose main activities dealt with
the rational management of expenditure.
1.24   Results relating to technical education. Despite the importance of this aspect of the
project (see para. 1.4 and 1.8), the completion status of this component is particularly
disappointing. Primarily owing to a shortage of counterpart funds, the preliminary survey of
technical and vocational schools was repeatedly postponed and ultimately no survey was
carried out. Although a report on technical training and the methodology for formulating and
testing training programs was prepared, no training was carried out. This component was thus
a total failure.
1.25   Results relating to training. Table 8 of Part III summarizes the results of the training
programs. Training outside of Zaire envisaged under the various components was carried out
(28 people trained, as against 27 projected). The training was considered satisfactory by the
beneficiaries, although at times it was felt to be overly theoretical and not tailored to the
situation in Zaire. The completion rate for training in Zaire is much more disappointing. In-
service training, seminars and workshops were undertaken prior to the school mapping
exercise, the statistical survey and data processing activities. As regards computer training,
the lack of hardware throughout the stay of the experts from the technical assistance firm
meant that only theoretical training could be given. However, there was some training for
office staff following the delayed installation of the computer through a supplementary
contract with a computer software firm, together with an on-site introduction in its use during
the first statistical data processing runs. A brief seminar was also held for regional officials.
Overall, the objectives for local training were not achieved, as less than 10% of those targeted
by the project received training. The most remarkable failures were in the training of
principals, inspectors and technical teachers. The reasons for these failures lie both in a
shortage of counterpart funds as well as the incompetence of the experts in charge of the
training component.
1.26   Results relating to the school textbook policy. Despite a significant delay (due to
unavailable counterpart funds), which meant prolonged storage of the textbooks, book
distribution in the two regions (Bas-Zaire and Equateur) was ultimately satisfactory, involving
the church-affiliated education networks. The evaluation of this operation in 1989 showed
that the rate at which textbooks were actually arriving at the targeted schools, even the most
remote and with greatest difficulty of access, was over 90%. As part of the preparation of
the next education project, a supplementary study was carried out under the Credit to
evaluate the conditions for expanding the operation, since a school textbook component was
envisaged by the Government. In both cases, it is unfortunate that only preliminary reports
were produced and that the technical assistance specialists never provided any complete and



- 9 -
final reports. As regards the cost recovery policy, the directives that were issued and
disseminated never had any impact. This is not surprising -- or alarming for that matter --
because the data available at that time indicated that school operating expenses for students
were already being met in large part by family contributions. In fact in some areas, some
parents had already made advance payments for the purchase of the textbooks.
1.27   Results relating to technical assistance. The project included a substantial technical
assistance program involving the use of 24.5 man-years of long-term experts and 6.5 man-years
of short-term consultants (i.e. an average technical assistance of some 10 full-time people for
the three years planned for the project). The recruitment of expertise ran into slight delays,
as the long-term experts came on board only in July 1985. The delay was caused primarily
by the slow approval of the experts by the DEPS. Initial working conditions were not
satisfactory and the coordinator lost a great deal of time in solving logistical problems, to the
detriment of team coordination and real output. The recruitment of short-term consultants
often experienced delays, which nay part;all' account for the slow pace of proJ,-ct
implementation.
1.28   Impact and sustainabilitv of project achievements. Although it is too early to judge
the impact of the project, there is understandably some uncertainty given its incomplete
implementation. One positive aspect must be stressed: the feasibility of the distribution of
textbooks in a vast country with communication problems shows that one of the greatest
constraints on the quality of education can be resolved if the means are made available. For
the rest, apart from the individual training provided, the constraints that the project sought
to eliminate remain in full force. Meanwhile, it is very unlikely that the Data Processing Unit
created under the project would survive for long because of likely problems relating to
personnel stability and the availability of means of operation and maintenance. However,
since the closing of the project the unit has continued to make some further achievements
(like the evaluation work it has recently undertaken in the Kinshasa school district).
yin. PARTICIPANT PERFORMANCE
1.29   IDA Performance: The pre-appraisal phases of the project were handled swiftly and
professionally by World Bank staff. After sound identification, the project was prepared
rapidly. The document drafted by the appraisal mission brought the difficult areas of the
project into sharp focus and proposed appropriate solutions (including the establishment of
a project fund account requiring the signature of the project director and the head of
technical assistance for the project; anticipation of some implementation difficulties and
making provision for their resolution; the use of more intensive supervision missions than the
normal supervision mission). These suggestions were also included in the President's Report.
However, preparation of this project lacked some degree of pragmatism especially in terms
of the amount of time allocated to carry out certain activities. It is not surprising that the
Closing Date of the Project was postponed three times notwithstanding the fact that certain
activities were never carried out.
1.30   Proiect supervision, as summarized in Tables 12 and 13, consists of three distinct
periods: (a) project start-up, when missions consisted of several people whose expertise
reflected the main areas of the project (education planner and training specialist) after which



- 10 -
an intensive supervision was organized as planned (supervision mission V) (i.e. a total of 18.6
man-weeks in 20 months); (b) a period of some two and one half years during which
supervision was provided by a single person, whose area of expertise evidently did not
encompass all project areas; the supervision missions went out, on average, about twice every
year and each mission lasted about 10 days (i.e. a total of about 7.8 man-weeks in 29 months);
(c) a period of about one year during which supervision was provided by the preparation
missions for the following project. The most critical difficulties (cumulative delays in the
project overall, poor quality of study reports, major difficulties in the components not carried
out, difficulties in procurement, etc.) evidently appeared during the second period. It would
appear that during the second phase the World Bank did not devote as much attention to
supervision as a project in difficult straits would require. First, an annual intensive mission,
in accordance with projections, might have helped to mobilize the senior officials of the
DEPS and other departments involved and would have demonstrated greater firmness vis-a-vis
the Borrower. Second, the supervision missions during that period, while identifying project
bottlenecks, did not, according to supervision reports, seem to have sought solutions to
problems other than the systematic and repeated postponement of deadlines. The last period
was characterized by a great effort on the part of the World Bank in trying to ensure
successful completion of those parts of the project for which there was some hope. In
general, the Bank staff should have demonstrated more imagination or firmness during the
most critical moments of project implementation.
1.31   Borrower Performance: The contractual obligations under the Credit were only
partially complied to by the Government. The major problem is that relating to the
insufficiency of counterpart funds and delays in making payments, and in providing work
plans, timetables and annual reports. There were also problems and delays relating to the
transmission of annual audit reports and the initial audit on the Special Account and the
Project Fund Account.  Themselves the cause of problems that marred project
implementation, these factors also reflected a casual attitude on the part of the Borrower in
project implementation and monitoring. Poor performance is attributable to actors at various
levels in the DEPS and BPE. Firstly, the senior officials in DEPS were responsible for
(a) the interrupted activities of the Project Coordinating Committee, which was established
to periodically analyze implementation, achievements and difficulties, and propose solutions;
(b) a lack of reaction to important documents such as that on reorganization of the Ministry.
Even a rejection of the conclusions and proposals would have made it possible to discuss
measures acceptable in the political context and in some measures could have been limited
(probably leading to a reallocation of the funds); (c) failure to demand adequate performance
from contracted technical experts, officials and staff of the offices involved; and
(d) interference in procurement operations (bottlenecks with bidding documents). Second,
as regards the BPE, despite the difficulty of its work (see para. 1.12), it demonstrated certain
failings, in particular (a) in project account management, despite the comments made by the
annual audits and the training received by the BPE head accountant, and (b) in the
procedures for competitive bidding and procurement, which ran into significant delays. Third,
the various offices involved in implementation and whose directors did not take suitable
measures to mobilize the necessary human resources or reduce the absenteeism that paralyzed
project progress, carry part of the blame.
1.32   Project Relationships: Relationships with senior DEPS officials, the director of the
Project Office and the officials of the other departments involved (Planning, Finance, Public
Administration) were at all times considered excellent by the various Bank missions,



- 11 -
notwithstanding the fact that these excellent relationships did not lead to excellent project
results.
1.33   Technical assistance: Technical assistance was evidently a key factor in the difficulties
regarding project implementation. The services of the firm contracted for project preparation
and implementation were not entirely satisfactory. The problems were of several types: (a)
the technical assistance contract was the first involvement of the firm in Zaire and more
specifically in education. The particularly difficult working environment presented difficulties
for a good number of specialists who in addition had no work experience in developing
countries; (b) although certain specialists had specific expertise that resulted in quality work,
others clearly lacked expertise or professionalism that resulted in outputs whose quality was
deemed insufficient by the Association, or by a lack of any results at the end of their work;
(c) as a group, the specialists on board did not work together as a team, which resulted in
internal conflicts as well as poor integration within the DEPS, and even conflicts with other
specialists in the DEPS (this was in particular responsible for difficulties in the training
component and a lack of interaction with SECOPE); (d) high staff turnover (none of the
long-term experts remained in the same assignment throughout the life of the project; 50%
of specialists had already moved one year after the start of the project); and (e) grievous
errors of judgment on the part of several specialists who were declared persona non grata
following indiscretions. However, the technical assistance services used in the last part of the
project to complete certain aspects of the project and for preparation of the following project
were considered excellent.
1.34   Documentation and data relating to the project: The project produced a large
quantity of information and data contained in the background papers, Credit Agreement,
President's Report, audit reports, supervision reports, bidding documents and bid evaluation
reports. The information used in the preparation of this PCR was taken from documents and
files of the World Bank, DEPS and the BPE regarding the project. Project supervision
reports are clear and complete and contain a large number of annexes and technical
documents. Supervision, especially during the final phases of the project, led to some fruitful
dialogue with Zairian authorities. Although it did not always result in the immediate solution
to specific problems, that dialogue made it possible to identify problems and discuss them, and
vastly contributed to the development of a subsequent operation (the education sector
rehabilitation project - PRESED).
IX CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
1.35   Despite disbursement of about 90% of the Credit, the attainment of objectives of the
Education Technical Assistance and Training Project is disappointing. The insufficiency and
repeated delays in payments of counterpart funds, poor project management on the part of
Zairian officials, insufficient commitment on the part of senior DEPS officials to change
structures and procedures they nevertheless considered inadequate, and the mediocrity of the
technical assistance provided to assist in project implementation were the main reasons for
the abandonment or partial implementation of key project components.



- 12 -
1.36   Lessons to be drawn. The main lessons to be drawn from this technical assistance
project are summarized as follows:
(a)    ensure that the role, responsibilities and results expected of each party
involved in the project are clearly defined and delineated (in particular in the
case of the Project Office and project technical assistance);
(b)    prevent certain project components from being dependent on others when
different entities are involved or, if unavoidable, schedule start-up and
recruitment contracts for the latter only after sufficient progress has been
made in implementation of the former;
(c)   limit the scope of the project to changing only those structures or procedures
directly implicated in the project if it is not certain that political commitment
is absolute or if such structural changes are associated with major social
difficulties. When meticulously thought out and successfully implemented,
partial reorganization of management has greater chances of having a positive
subsequent impact on more comprehensive reforms;
(d)    make sure that the other donors or experts to be involved in project
implementation are closely associated with project preparation; similarly, as
early on as during project preparation, involve those local entities that will
have overall responsibility for the project (e.g. the Coordinating Committee
in this case), making their establishment and operation a condition of credit
negotiation;
(e)    determine, as early as during project preparation, the key activities of the
project for which intensive joint supervisions and evaluation during the
course of implementation will be necessary and undertake such evaluations
during implementation as planned including a joint mid-term review of
progress achieved in carrying out the project;
(f)    to the extent possible, implementation of key elements of the project should
not be made too dependent on the availability of counterpart funds and,
because of that, allocate counterpart funds to project activities that are not
strictly vital to the rapid and efficient achievement of other key activities
financed by the credit;
(g)   the opinion and non-objection of IDA should not be limited to the initial
technical assistance contract, but mechanisms should be envisaged through
which IDA's opinion and non-objection would still be sought during
implementation of the contract (through provisions in the technical assistance
contract, joint evaluations etc);
(h)   the project design should be as simple as possible; a simple project that is
closely supervised greatly improves the chances of successful implementation
and achievement of immediate project objectives which, in turn, may influence
the attainment of long-term development objectives; and



- 13 -
(i)   supervision missions should be fielded at appropriate and flexible intervals to
address emerging problems; they should also ensure reasonable continuity in
staff and comprise the necessary specialists competent in the fields covered by
the project.
PART II: A REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPEC`IIVE
(Translation)
I. INTRODUCI1ON
2.1.   Following an agreement between IDA and the Republic of Zaire, a third education
project was identified, prepared and implemented between 1983 and 1991. During the pre-
identification and preparation stages, the IDA staff members responsible for the project were
Messrs. Jonathan Brown (formerly Deputy Chief, Education Division) and Albert Aime
(Education Adviser in the same Division). By the time project negotiations were taking place
in Washington, Mr. Brown was no longer the officer in charge but had been replaced by
Mr. Aime, and by the time the Credit became effective, Mr. Aime in his turn had been
replaced by Mr. J. McCabe, Education Planner. Because of the turnover among IDA project
officers, the Zairian authorities became anxious that the objectives of this project might no
longer be properly understood, and it has been their view that the changes in IDA's
Education Division had certain ill effects in this regard.
2.2.   According to the President's Report (Document No. P-3766-ZR), the technical
assistance component of the project was a guarantee that the Government would be able to
increase its management capability and limit the risks associated with the project. However,
when potential consultants were being canvassed, those the IDA-Zaire joint selection mission
regarded as top-rank (roughly 90%) all declined the offers made to them, obliging the
Government to make do with second- or third-rank candidates. This compromise was to have
very regrettable consequences as far as project consulting and technical assistance
arrangements were concerned.
2.3.  It should also be noted that inflation in Zaire was high between the project pre-
identification stage (US$1 = Z 5.86 in December 1982) and the date the Credit became
effective (US$1 = Z 55.79 in December 1985). It was against this background that this
Credit became effective in August 1985.
IL PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.4.   The main objective of the project was to increase the planning, management and
administrative capabilities of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education (DEPS),
and thereby its ability to provide higher-quality and more efficient education.
2.5.   The more specific objectives were to enable the Government:



- 14 -
(a)   to strengthen its education planning by introducing a program  for the
systematic collection and processing of data and by carrying out a pilot project
in school mapping;
(b)   to strengthen education management and administration through (i) analysis
of the administrative structure of DEPS, (ii) formulation of a plan for its
reorganization, (iii) training of its personnel, and (iv) provision of means of
transportation and communication;
(c)   to improve the relevance and quality of education through (i) a survey of
technical schools, (ii) preparing programs to improve the skills of teachers of
technical subjects, and (iii) testing new methods for producing, distributing
and recovering the cost of textbooks.
2.6.   Project Components: The project was subdivided into the following components:
(a)    Planning and statistics: Implementation of a program of data collection and
analysis, including production of statistical forms; training outside Zaire for
trainers in planning, and training inside Zaire for regional DEPS and school
staff; acquisition of equipment and materials for use in the foregoing.
(b)    School mapping: Carrying out pilot school-mapping exercises in the Kenge
area of the Bandundu Region and in the Madimba area of the Bas-Zaire
Region, and development of a school-mapping strategy based on the results
thereof; training outside and inside Zaire in school mapping.
(c)    Production of textbooks: Production and distribution of about 200,000 school
textbooks on mathematics and French language for the first two years of
secondary school in Bas-Zaire and Equateur; training outside Zaire in such
publishing, production and distribution; evaluation of this program.
(d)    Technical education: Conducting a survey of technical and vocational schools;
preparation of programs to retrain their teachers in the eight specialties
chosen; training outside and inside Zaire in the planning and provision of
technical education; preparation and testing of improved technical teacher
packages.
(e)    Strengthening of DEPS:   Conducting an analysis of the functional,
administrative and financial structures of DEPS; modification of its
organization and procedures as per a plan based on the results of that
analysis; training outside and inside Zaire for DEPS staff in budgeting,
accounting, and education administration and management; installation of
radio communication equipment in Kinshasa and the regions, and training of
staff in its use and maintenance.
(f)    Training of school principals and i'nspectors: Formulating and carrying out a
program to train about 2,400 primary and secondary school principals, other
school administrators and school inspectors in administration, management,
budgeting and accounting; in addition, providing means of transportation for
inspectors (bicycles, motorcycles, vehicles etc.
_-  - - - -  



- 15 -
(g)   Data processing: Improving the data-processing capabilities of DEPS through
the installation of new equipment and acquisition of new programs and
materials; training outside and inside Zaire in information management; and
organization of data-processing services as a separate administrative unit
under the direct responsibility of the Secretary General of DEPS.
M. PROJECT DESIGN AND EXECUTION
2.7.   Project Design: Two aspects of project design call for comment:
-     the relevance of project components;
-     the scope of project operations.
2.8.   Relevance of project components: The choice of project components was based on
sound judgement; some of them were responses to criticisms of DEPS from Zairian circles
regarding the need to resolve the problems relating to the quality of education (deterioration
in the quality of education, gap between user needs and training given, etc.). However, some
other components were not integrated into the overall structural organization of the
machinery of government. This was the case of Component E (Strengthening of DEPS)
whose objective was to bring about a reorganization of the DEPS. However, such
organizational changes in the Departments of the Executive Council (now Ministries of the
Government) were not a matter for DEPS alone, but also -- and, in fact, chiefly -- for the
Ministry of the Civil Service. Any discussion or study of the internal organization of DEPS
should have involve this Ministry, whereas the approach advocated did not involve it directly.
This omission explains the reserved attitudes of both DEPS and the Ministry of the Civil
Service, as well as the almost complete lack of interest evinced by all parties concerned.
2.9.   Scope of operations: The scattering of project activities throughout DEPS was
deplorable; practically every Division behaved as if it were responsible for some project
component or other, although in fact the Project Office had designated a special staff group
in only one Division. Staff not directly involved were often critical of activities in progress,
on occasion causing some loss of motivation among those involved in a particular task. While
it is true that there were problems to be attended to throughout the sector, we believe it
would have been better to adopt the approach of proceeding by stages (i.e. grouping two or
three components of the project together) rather than that of allowing operations to be so
dispersed.
2.10.  Project implementation: During the course of project implementation, numerous
problems arose, ascribable to the lack of adequate preparation and to the poor performance
of the parties participating.
2.11.  Preparation: Preparation of technical materials had been entrusted to a firm of
consultants recruited under IDA guidelines. During project negotiations, it became clear that
these materials were wanting on the analytical side, so much so that certain matters were to
be reviewed and re-thought before the Credit became effective.
2.12.  During execution, other difficulties developed with the team of consultants: (i)
approximately 98% had not been involved in the preparatory process, which meant they were



- 16 -
unfamiliar with relevant materials; (ii) a lack of cohesion within the team; (iii) difficulties in
adapting to an unfamiliar environment.
2.13.  This technical assistance, mediocre in quality as it was, nevertheless accounted for
roughly 60% of the total cost of the project, an excessive figure. In future, similar design
errors should be avoided if such a project is to be spared attacks both from within and outside
DEPS. The results anticipated from this assistance (improvement in the execution capabilities
of DEPS) did not materialize fully.
2.14.  Performance of the Government
(a)    Education Project Office (BPE):  Although BPE's responsibilities were
outlined in Credit Agreement 1519-0-ZR and its Side Letter No. 1, DEPS
often prevented it from exercising its prerogatives. For instance, DEPS
recruited the project accountant and procurement specialist (required under
the terms of the Credit Agreement, Side Letter No. 1) using criteria other
than their professional qualifications and failing to follow the guidelines
agreed on mutually with the IDA project start-up mission. This situation led
to undeniable shortcomings in the areas of accounting and procurement.
(b)    Coordinating Committee:  This Committee, required under the terms of
Section 3.10 of the Credit Agreement, functioned more or less normally,
although its support in monitoring project execution left something to be
desired.
(c)    Ministry of Planning: Disbursement of project funds by this Ministry within
the framework of the capital budget was very poor, notwithstanding the fact
that this Ministry was represented on the Coordinating Committee. Choices
and decisions were made according to criteria that did not fit in with any
programming of project operations. The ensuing chronic lack of counterpart
funds appears to be one of the chief reasons for the project's poor results.
(d)    Ministry of Finance: The Contract Awards Committee, supervised by this
Ministry, was largely to blame for many of the delays that affected project
contracts. Its laxity where its own functioning was concerned (meetings
convened but then canceled for lack of a quorum, inadequate secretarial
services, etc.) seriously obstructed operations planning.
2.15.  Performance of IDA: As noted in our introductory remarks, the original IDA project
officers were reassigned immediately after the Credit became effective. While this did not
affect the general supervision of the project, there were some instances of disagreement over
what approaches should be followed to achieve desired results. However, the other stages
of the project (pre-identification, identification, preparation and supervision) went ahead in
a manner the Government considered satisfactory. The various documents put out by IDA,
by making not only essential but also pertinent information available, contributed to sound
understanding of the project and improved its implementation.
2.16.  During the implementation period, approximately nine supervision missions were
organized: one in 1985, three in 1986, two in 1988, and one in 1989. Although what the
project did achieve was due to them in large part, and although they strengthened the



- 17 -
IDA/Government communications that were so essential throughout this period, we believe
that the question of mission frequency under future projects could be reviewed in the
interests of greater efficiency of monitoring arrangements, particularly in the difficult kind of
socioeconomic circumstances which Zaire has had to face in recent years. A frequency
pattern of one mission per quarter would be more suitable.
2.17. Recommendations for future projects
(a)    Ensure that IDA and Government officers involved in the initial phases of the
project (pre-identification and preparation) are still part of it at the time it is
actually launched so that risks of differences in interpretation and approach
can be kept to a minimum.
(b)    Ensure that any participating entities and individuals are fully informed
regarding the project and their own responsibilities in it.
(c)    Devise ways of protecting BPE from the kind of situation where curtailment
of its autonomy may prevent it from carrying out its functions.
(d)    Shorten present contract award procedures as far as possible.
(e)    Ensure that technical assistance is selective and restricted to areas in which
Zaire has no capabilities of its own.
(f)    Introduce provisions that will oblige the Government to make the necessary
counterpart contributions to the project within reasonable time limits,
essential if scheduling and execution of project components are to be well
synchronized.



- 18 -
BORROWER'S OBSERVATIONS ON PART I OF THE PCR
2.18.  Taken as a whole, the analysis of the project given in Part I is a reasonably objective
account of the facts surrounding implementation of the various components of the project.
We also find the lessons referred to or recommendations made to be pertinent and possibly
applicable to the planning of future operations.
2.19.  In our view, the format of the Project Completion Report, slightly different from that
of the Completion Report on the Second Education Project (Credit 624-ZR), provides
worthwhile pointers for personnel who may be responsible for coordinating activities under
future projects.



- 19 -
BORROWER'S OBSERVATIONS ON PART mI OF THE PCR
Table 4: Projected and Actual Dates for Completion of Project Components
Component 6: Means of transportation for inspectors
These activities were completed in March 1990.
The first bidder did not withdraw because of poor and slow procurement
procedures, but because of IDA's refusal to consent to mark-up of unit costs
following a change in the yen/US$ exchange rate; since the bid was
denominated in dollars, the bidder needed to increase the amount to be able
to supply the entire package of goods and services required. The Bank
recommended that a second bidding competition be organized with the
assistance of specialized international agency. The equipment had already
arrived by the closing date of the Credit period.
Component 10: Technical Assistance
-     Numerous consultants assigned to the project made no contribution to it at
all, although this component accounted for over 60% of total project cost.
-     The Government, which had expected to benefit from their special services,
instead devoted considerable time to resolving problems peculiar to consulting
and technical assistance personnel as a group.
-     The comparative advantage seems disproportionate.
Table 5: Project Costs (by Component)
-     Actual costs: Figures forwarded in BPE letters Nos. 324/91 of December 18,
1991 and 054/92 of March 20, 1992.
-     Additional copies are attached for your convenience.
Table 11: Compliance with Credit Agreement Obligations
-     Section 3.08, Degree of Compliance: Carried out and vehicles distributed
since May 1991 by regional DEPS offices.
-     Section 3.10, Degree of Compliance: In fact, 14 meetings were held - five in
1985, three in 1986, one in 1987, four in 1988 and one in 1989 (V.
accompanying certification).



- 20 -
TABLE 1 PROVIDED BY THE BORROWER
MINISTRY OF PRIMARY, SECONDARY. AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
Education Projects Office
CREDIT 1519-0 ZR
Meetings of Coordination Committee
Year                              Number of Meetings
1985                                    5
1986                                    3
1987                                     1
1988                                    4
1989                                     1
Given in Kinshasa, April 7, 1992
Director of Projects
/s/ Ihando A. Kambembo
SEAL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL EDUCATION,
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE



TABLE 2 PROVIDED BY THE BORROWER
A. TOTAL ANNUAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL TRANSFERS TO PROJECT ACCOUNT
(in zaires)
CATEGORY           1985           1986            1987           1988     J     1989            1990        1991      TOTALS
Operating
subsidies           405,037          989,020        561,040         136,008                                               2,091,105
Zairian
counterpart
funds              4,866,296      21,077,626      18,200,000     28,500,000     40,000,000     100,000,000             212,643,922
TOTALS             5,271,333      22,066,646      18,761,040     28,636,008     40,000,000     100,000,000             214,735,027



TABLE 3 PROVIDED BY THE BORROWER
B. SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURE CHARGED TO PROJECT ACCOUNT (BY PROJECT COMPONENT)
(in zaires)
No.          PROJECT               1985         1986           1987           1988    1    TOTALS
COMPONENTS          l           l              l_l
1   Planning &
Statistics                   411,772      5,073,721      4,707,834     4,309,241        14,502,568
2    School Mapping               927,851        224,050      5,329,695       177,242         6,658,838
3    Production
of Textbooks                 684,379         43,040       307,034      1,141,746         2,176,199
4    Technical
Education                          -        181,525       128,395         83,255           393,175
5    Strengthening
of DEPS                           -       ',749,255       880,055              -         2,629,310
6    Training of
School Principals &
Inspectors                   319,176       604,687        464,040      1,390,118         2,778,021
7    Data Processing               56,549        580,732      1,204,946       224,000         2,066,227
8    Education Projects
Office                     2,849,848      4,841,959     14,482,375    18,658,701        40,832,883
TOTALS                     5,249,575     13,298,969     27,504,374    25,984,303        72,037,221



PART Ill: STATIlSTICAL INFOaRTI
A.      Sector-Related IDA Credits
Table 1: IDA CREDITS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
IAmount of
_ms of          Credit                   Objectives                  Tear of      Status                         Ccmenta
Credit           US        f                                       Apirac
mlllion
The project's objective was to help                               There were considerable delays in project
finance the construction,                                         implementation, and a shortfall in the
rehabilitation and equipment of                                   attainment of project objectives because of
secondary teacher training schools,                               cost increases caused by the high inflation
First                     teacher trainer training and                           Closing     rate, devaluation of the zaire. delay in
Education          6.5      primary and technical education            1971         date       counterpart funds, which were insufficient
Project                     inspector training, curricula                         Dec. 31,    in any case, and the rwo wars that broke
(Credit 272-                  development and improvement at                          1981       out in the country.  Implementation
ZR)                      selected technical schools, and a                                  difficulties were also caused by
study on improving the Department's                               imperfections in the architectural plans, a
management of the system.                                          lack of communication between the firm of
architects and the consultants responsible            W
for equipment, and mediocre project
management by the PMU, which had received
inadequate support from DEN.
The main objective was to provide                                 There were considerable delays at all
support for the Government's rural                                stages of project implementation.  These
development policy by constructing                                delays and galloping inflation prompted the
and equipping five rural teacher                                   revision of the project in 1981.  The
Second                     training schools, rehabilitating                      Closing    Government was unable to meet the
Education          21        and re-equipping six agricultural          1976         date       conditions required to carry out the
Project                    technician training schools and one                  Sept. 30,    revised project; the Credit was canceled
(Credit 624-                  higher institute of agriculture,                        1982       with an undisbursed balance of US$18.8
ZR)                      and providing technical assistance                                 million.  The reasons for the
and scholarships for those                                         implementation delays were the sam  as
establishments.  The project also                                  those mentioned in the case of the First
financed studies with a view to a                                 Project.
future project and resources to
improve the administration,
management and financing of
education.



B Proiect Calendar
Table 2: PLANNED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                                Planned Dates                           Actual Dates
Pre-Appraisal                                       April 1983                              April 1983
Preparation                           DEPS assisted by a consultancy firm - 1983              1983
Appraisal Mission                                  February 1984                       February 15-29, 1984
Credit Negotiation                                May-June 1984                        May 31-June 1, 1984
Approval                                             June 1984                          September 11, 1984
Signature of Credit                                                                     December 19, 1984
Credit Effectiveness                               October 1984                            April 9, 1985
Closing Date                                      March 31, 1988                          March 31, 1991
Final Disbursement                              September 30, 1988                       August 19, 1991



C  Credit Dibursments
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ milon)
Fical Year       [    1985       1986    1987      1988      1989   1  1990        1991      1992
A. Appraisal Estimate       2000       5500    8400      9000
B. Appraisal Disbursement:
Adjustment according to   1875       5400    8800      9950    (10150)     (10200)  (10350)   (10350)
exchange rate SDR/US$
C. Actual Disbursement       1323      2830    4450      6300      7900        8600      9360       9375
D. Actual Disbursement
(in % of total adjusted   15,7       32,0    47,2      63,4      77,8        84,2      90,4       90,6
credit)
E. Actual Disbursement
(in % of adjusted         70,5       52,4    50,6      63,4      77,8        84,2      90,4      90,6
appraisal estimate)
Date of last disbusement: August 19, 1991.
All amounts are equivalent in dollars at the date of appraisal (ISDR = 1.0465 US dollars)
The amounts are adjusted by taking into account the exchange rate between the US$ and the SDR
% calculated according to the total credit expressed in US$ by converting 8.6 million SDR at the median exchange
rate US$/SDR of that particular year.



Flgigr  18 3 BTIIIAYD DISDUUBEIUS XT A1P13I AL, R3VIBSD
MD ACTUAL (By VXICAL TZAR)
'000
9000 
8000
7000                                           D                                          -/-  Estimate at Appraisal
6000                                                                                                                        a 
40-  Revision (February 86)
5000 - *                                                                                       Revision (June 86)
/   /                                             E  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Revision (February 87)
40.00 '                                                                                        R    o  ( 
/-- Revision (April 90)
3000
/  Actual Disbursement
2000
1000
1985     1980      1987      1988     1989      *990      1991      1992



D. Project ImplementatioL
Table 4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETRON DATES OF COMPONENTS
Project COmponent           f Planned Completion | Actual Competio  -                   months of Delay _a  Cna--D
1 Planning and statistics
* - Consultation caittee               March 86               Not carried out
- Organization of structure            June 86                Not carried out
- Rehabilitation of office space       June 86                Suspeaded            - The rehabilitation of office apace was postponed to a
later project so that it could be thought out within the
frmework of a general redistribution of infrastructure
-ong the offices of the DEPS.
- equipmet                             June 86                May 07
- (11 months)
- publication of statistical
yearbook:                              June 86                January 89
first yearbook                                                             -(36 months) t The delay was due to late installation and
putting into service of the central data processing
equipnt. Cooputerized data processing and the
production of the yearbook have been carried out vith new
June 87               Not carried out      software expertise contracted following the departure of       _
*scond yearbook                 June 88               Not carried out      the fir originally hired for the Projet.
third yearbook
2. School mpping
- Phba   I s  adiba region             December 86           IJUn  1988            -(18 month.)  The amal for this study vas prepared but
never published.
- Pbas 2 t Kenge region                September 87           Not carried out      - The lack of counterpart funds wae given as the min
reaon for non-implamentation. Th  witch in consultants
mld-Project also delayed Implementation.
- Pbahe 3 s Tehela region              December 88            not carried out      - This third phas vw  introduced to replace ths ue of
stelLte coverage originally planned (decision dated
October 1985). The reaons for non-implentation are
the sm  as for Phase 2.
- Final reports School mapping         September 88           Not carried out                                                                     I
mthodology
0'
01-'
O m,



3. Production of textbooks
- Purchase of 200.000 manuals            March 86               January 86             (2 months)  184.000 student textbooks and 4,600 teachers'
- Distribution of manuals                                                             handbooks
Das-Zaire Region               September 86           April 88
Equator                        September 86           October 88            (19 months) - Distribution vas delayed for lack of
counterpart funds. vhich held up payment of both storage
charges and distribution costs. Distribution vas carried
out by utilizing conventional contribution channels for
the individual schools (Catholic. Protestant and
Kimbangulit). An evaluation of this distribution (over
- Cost recovery procedures               March 86               July 86               952 of the textbooks reached their destination) was
conducted in March 1989.
(4 mois)
4. Technical education                                                                A validated questionnasire was produced in April 1987.
- Survey                                 December 85            Not carried out       The survey vas never conducted because of lack of
- Teacher upgrading (40 people x 3       July 86                Not carried out       counterpart funds but also because of the witch in
months)                                                                               consultants.  The consultant responeible for revising the
- Revision of curricula                  August 87              Not carried out       programs never produced his report.
- Final report                           September 87           Not carried out
S. Strengthening of the Depar  nt
- Study of Department's
administration                           June 86                June 87               - (12 montba):  The delay vas attributable to the poor             N
central administration                                                              quality of the preliminary study produced by the                   co
technical consultants.  The final propoaals submitted to
the Goverent were never followed up by any comments.
March 88               Not carried out
regional administration                December 86            August 87             -(8 months):  The conclusions from these studies were
- Study of the Department's                                                           never put into practice because of the inability to
budgetary and accounting management                                                   computerize these management systems (delay in conmonent
7) and developments resulting from the reforms to the
State Budget by the PRAIGEFI Project.
August 88              Not carried out
- Implementation of study
conclusions                              December 86            Not completed
(procedure manuals)                                                                 - 12 transmitter-receivers vere purchased.  Three were
- Radio commnic ations system                                                         installed (used in conjunction with equipment from the
SECOP8 unit). The delays were due to poor procurement
procedures, failure of Departnt to decide on sites, and
the lack of counterpart funds to pay for their
installation.
December 88            Not carried out
- Final report                                                                                                                                           o -
. .. . . . , _ 44 >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-W



6. Training of Principals and
Inspectors                               March 86               March 1990            - (48 months).  The first bidder withdrew because of poor
- means of transportation for                                                         and slow procurement procedures and also because of IDA's
inspectors                                                                            refusal to consent to a mark up of unit costs following a
change in the Yen/US$ exchange rate; since the bid was
determined in dollars. the bidder needed to increase the
amount to be able to supply the entire package of goods
and services required.
March 86               December 1989
(partially)          - (45 months) 200 copies of a guide for administrators
- Training programs                                                                   were produced but were not distributed because it was
considered too theoretical and untested.
July 86
September 88           )December 1989        - Carried out only very partially:  140 people trained.
- Training for trainers    )             September 88           )Not completed        Delays attributable to lack of counterpart funds and.
- Training for principals ) 2,400                                                     above all. to the weakness of the technical expertise.
- Training for inspectors ) persons
7. Data processing
- Rehabilitation of office space         March 86               July 88               -(28 months).  Rehabilitation satisfactory.  Delays
attributable to slow procurement procedures and poor
- Computer hardware                      June 86                July 89               selection cf bidders.
- (36 months). Delays attributable to slow procurement
procedures and to the technical requirements for the site
(air-conditioning, grounding) that vere not met.  This
component was finally launched witb new software experts
contracted following the departure of the firm originally
- Computerization of personnel           September 88           Not carried out       hired for the Project.
Imanagement
The computerization of personnel management was developed
in the course of the Project by another unit of the
Departmenc (SECOPE). This duplication of services was
attributable to the lack of any clear policy on the part
septembre 88           Not carried out       of the Department and to the technical expert's inability
- Computerization of financial           septembre 88           Not carried out       to fit into the Department.  As soon as the Project's
mn8agement                                                                            technical expert left, the Credit becam  involved in the
- Computerization of exAmination                                                      operation of this unit (supplementary equipment and
correction                                                                            technical expertise).
(8) Local Training
- PL- malg *nd statistic. (66 popl    d6cambre 87
S 3)
- School mappng                          Juillet 86             Not carried out
- Technlcal edouation (40 people s 3   acOt 88                  Not carried out                                                                            'U
months)                                  septebre 88            Partially carried    140 people attended a seminar.
- Iducatie  management (144 people)                             out
- Principals and Inspectors (2400                                                                                                                            |
people)                                                                                                                                                       a
(       above)               ___.__._._._._,_,_ ,_I



(9) Training outside Zaire
- 27 people for 168 m/h                   December 87            December 89            28 people trained.  While the training was satisfactory,
it was, in certain cases, considered too theoretical and
unrelated to Zaire's problems.
(10) Technical Assistance
- 9 long-term experts   294 months        December 88            December 89            Numerous consultants assigned to the project made no
contribution to it at all, although this component
- 18 short-term experts   78 mois         Throughout project                            accounted for over 602 of total project cost.  The
Government, which had expected to benefit from their
special services, instead devoted considerable time to
resolving problems peculiar to consulting and technical
assistance personnel as a group.
h.3.   Since this was a technical assistance project, the dates initially projected in the project implementation timetable were extended to
allow for the actual arrival in Zaire of the technical assistance firm.
4- o
0 ~
m m
o i-D
(0t



- 31 -
E.     Pro1ect Expenditures and Financina
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS (BY COMPONENT)
COUPOKT                              COST BSTIMM% AT APP86lBSAL;
l ___________________________________         Loc     eost    lor.    oxebac a  Tot l  ccat
1. Planning and statistics                          109.3           692.8          802.1
2. School mapping                                   145.6           863.3        1,008.9
3. Production of textbooks                           91.5           506.5          598.0
4. Technical education                              212.0           796.3        1,008.3
5. Strengthening of the Department                  551.1         1,769.9        2,321.0
6. Training of principals and inspectors            218.4         1,238.9        1,457.3
7. Data processing                                  187.5         2,060.9        2,248.4
8. Project administration                           149.6           598.4          748.0
9. Project Preparation Facility                     ---             473.0          473.0
TOTAL                                          1,665.0         9,000.0       10,665.0
Data provided by the Government on actual cost by component (Table B of
Part II) are incomplete (for 1985 to 1988 only) and unreliable since the
figures are incompatible vith Bank disbursement data (Tables 5 (a) and
Table 14]. For this reason, it vas not possible to compute actual costs by
component.



Table 5(a): PROJECT COSTS (BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY)
(in '000 USS)
CAWGOET                                COST RST]ATE AT APPRAISAL *                            ACTUAL COST
Local cost   For. exchange   Total cost   Local coat   For. exchange   Total cost
1. Rehabilitation of office space                         40.0             60.0           100.0         34.5            126.9           161.4
2. Equipment, supplies and materials                      79.0          1,330.0         1,409.0         49.2            919.7           968.9
3.  Distribution and printing of textbooks               228.0             150.0          378.0         47.2            250.1           297.3
4.  (a) Vehicles (bicycles, motorcycles and                5.0             128.0          133.0                         239.5           239.5
outboard motors)                                               262.0           262.0                         131.5           131.5
(b) All other vehicles                               392.0          4,338.0         4,730.0          0.5          4,950.5         4,951.0
5. Consultant and expert services and surveys            481.0            340.0           821.0         28.7             10.3            39.0
6.  (a) Training in Zaire                                                 672.0           672.0          3.8            747.6           751.4
(b) Training outside Zaire                                             40.0            40.0          3.1             37.8            40.9
7. Audits                                                104.0              90.0          194.0          8.5              3.4            11.9
8. Materials and printing for statistical
forms                                                                   60.0           60.0          3.5             59.0            62.5
9. Fuel, lubricants and spare parts for                                   473.0           473.0                         438.8           438.8
vehicles under Category (4b) above                   336.0**         1,057.0        1,393.0                       ***51.8             51.8
10. PPF                                                                                                                   4.1             4.1
11. Unallocated (exchange rate losses)                                                                                                                   w
TOTAL                                              1,665.0          9,000.0        10,665.0        179            7,971.0         8,150.0
*       The figures shown here are those given in the Project cost tablea.  They aho  minor differences compared to the figures
included in the Credit Agreement.
**      With reapect to the Govermnt's sha re, this amount refers to physical and price contingencies.
*5*     Punda credited to the special account (broken down by unallocated categories)



- 33 -
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(million USS)
Funding Sources           -       Progammed  I :I     eviscd     - -al
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~  (N e ota ti o )  -      : -:  -   
IDA                                                 9                             & 815
Government Counterpart                              1.67            --            0.97
TOTAL COST                                         10.67            --            9.12
Table 7:  PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
('000 US$)
CATEGORIES             Nogotistione      X.viseod-     RwS*.4          Ctuii      l
I   Estimate       Estimate      Estimate    Ditbuie.ment
___ __ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __ __   ,___ __ __ __   (1988}     (tP S9)  - _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Rehabilitation                      78.5          78.5          75.2           161.4
2. Equipment, supplies and           1329.1        1329.1        1015.1           968.9
materials
3. Distribution and                   146.5         523.2         418.6           297.3
impression of
manuals                                      .
4. a) Vehicles (Bicycles,             136.0         136.0         261.6           239.5
motorcycles, and outboard
motor boat)                        261.6         261.6         157.0           131.5
4. b) All other vehicles
5. Consultants and experts           4311.6        4311.6        5127.9          4951.0
services and surveys
6. a) Training in Zaire               314.0         314.0          52.3            39.0
6. b) Training overseas               701.2         701.2         889.5           751.4
7. Auditing                            41.9          41.9          41.9            40.9
8. Equipment and statistical           89.0          89.0          89.0            11.9
forms
9. Fuel, lubricant and spare           62.8          62.8          62.8            62.5
parts for
vehicles (cat. 4. b)
10. Initial deposit in the             52.3         209.3         209.3            _
Special Account
11. PPF (pre-investment              470.9          438.8         438.8           438.8
study)
12. Unallocated/unclassified         1004.6         503.0         161.0            55.9
by categories               _       _
TOTAL                           9000.0         9000.0        9000.0          8150.0
UNDISBURSED                                                                   850.0



- 34 -
FJSM 2: PEANNED AND ACrUAL CRDff ALLOCATIONS
.0 -000
1 US dol lars
Estimated at Apprais.
4250                                            Actual
1500 -
1000 
750J~
500-
250
1  2  3   4a 4b  5  6a  6  7  a  9 10  11 12
1.   Rehabilitation                7. Auditing
2.   Equipmnt, supplies and        8.  Equipsent and
materials                         statistical forms
3.   Distribution and              9.  Fuel, lubricant and
impression of manuals             spare parts for
4.a. Vahiclea  (Bicycles,              vehicles (cat. 4.b)
motorcycles, and              10. Initial deposit in
outboard motor boat)              the Special Account
4.b. All other vehicles            II. PPF (pro-investment
S.   Consultants and experts           study)
6.a. Training in Zaire             12. Unallocated/
6.b. Training overseas                 unclassified by
cateqories



- 35 -
F. Prolect Results
Table 8: TRAINING PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT
(FORECAST AND ACCOMPLISHED)
____-________|________t:                                 * Tt       | *| -
A. OVERSEAS
1) Planning                  3          2          6           3            3          6
1,5
2) School map                2           6         12          2             6         12
3) Administra-              10           9        90          13        2 x 0.3        90.6
tion/Management                                                         2 x 3
______ ____   _ ______   _____ _____ 1   x   12
4) Computer                  2           9         18          3            3           9
science
5 )Technical                 6           3         18          3            3           9
study                                          18_3
6) School manuals            3      1 x 9         21           3        1 x 9          21
2 x 6                              2 x 6
7) Project                   1           3          3          1            3           3
management                                                                          _
L TOTAL          1       271        -         168   J     28            --        150.6
B. LOCAL                 _      _      _     _
1) Planning/               198           _    _   10          85           _     _   --
Statistics
2) School map               20           0.5     120          25     __               -_
3) Technical                40           3        --           0     __               -_
study
4) Educational             144     _        _ -                0     __               -_
Management
5) Directors/             2400         __          __        140            _
Inspectors                                I          I
TOTAL                   280 2[           [                250                       -
Length and total in months.



- 36 -
Table 9:  IInIASTIUCTOUZ. GOODS UD 1Q01r
1WRATI~UE.GoODS 'Am  mIZN!                                                             I         
I.        Rbhabilitation                                       600 if                                    600 at
2.        Data processing centers                              I                                         I
acility, electric poer. air-conditioning
A 'super-mini computer
Two mini computers
Software development
3.        School textbooks                                     200.000 textbooks                         188 600 textbooks
*.        Radio co=micatioa system  by                         S0 centers                                12 tranumitter-receivers procured
trancoitt r/reeoi:r                                                                           S installed
5.        Transportation for tho inspectors                    90 motorcycles                            Procured. not delivered
*0 bicycles
9 outto  mdotors
6.        Other vebicls and equipmnt                           9 vehicles
I conputer                              Procured and delivered
SO  pi ce   of  .  ic _ .q i m         _ ...,..__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Table LOt STUDIES
=         ~        ~      ~ ~~ T    :        =         :         = .m                                   1 --'  -0!  00-|ZCS~IHrlslg'3000!0     0
STWI~ ~ ~~. ,                ,    s     a     i,          ,  X asxcr   uomxyv  OURI  ago                 X1W         lw  n-w    i-   yL
1.        Scbool sapping         Develop a School mapping methodology           Carried out in one              No impact
methodology           ftolloing a pilot project. suitable for   region.  Methodology not
us  in other regions of the country           yet prepared.
l                         ~~~~~~~~(-R48?-
2.         Study of               The study of technical and vocational         Not carried out                 no impact
tehnical               chools Il to help determine whicb
education              achoolare to be selected for
*dditional  quipment  developmnt of
curricula and training for tebor
.. _________________________  _    train er             i g  for t_ c
3.        School textbooks        Toot and evaluate nw metbods of               Carried out in two              The satisfactory results in terms
production, distribution and coat             regions                         of distribution prompted plans for
recovery for textbooks (PR.50).                                               a more extensive operation in a
_______________________________                                                      s~~~~~~~~~~~ubsequent  project.
*.         Hanagemnt o. the    To conduct an in-depth Study of the              Partially carried out           Since the Goveruent never issued
Department            Departsents administrative and                                                its co_mnte on the Study's
financial structures at the national,                                         conclusions. its impact can be
regional and local level.  Conclusions                                        rbSrdod * negligibl
to fore the basis of the policy for tr                                                   s
physical and administrative
reorlaniuation of the Department
(Pa 2).
5.        Project                 To prepare a pro;*ct to follow the            Carried out                     It is too soon to assese  its
Preparation            Third education Project.                                                       impat  in light of tbh  recent
changes in Zaire.



G.       Status of Credit Covenants
Table II: COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANTS
SECllON       [  OBUGATIONS TO BE MET By BORROWER                     TIME FRAME          |                     DEGREE OF COMPLIANCE
3.01 (a)       To furnish funds, facilities and resources needed for  Throughout project  Only partially camed out.
Project implementation.
3.01 (c)      To open a "Project Funds" account and to deposit in    By the deadlines     Only Z 5.0 million of the Z 10.0 budgeted was paid into the account in 1985,
it an initial amount equivalent to US$20,000 prior to      set             Z 9.5 million of the Z 18.5 million budgeted in 1986; Z 10 million of the
project effectiveness and additional amounts                                Z 35 million budgeted in 1987; Z 17 million of the Z 20 million budgeted in
equivalent to US$50,000 by April 1, 1985 and                                1988 (Z 40 million requested). Government funds have, in general, fallen
US$30,000 by July 1, 1985. To make payments at the                         short of proven needs and have been paid after considerable delays. These
beginning of each quarter corresponding to the                             points are two of the major reasons for the delays and time lags in Project
expenditures estimated for the quarter.                                    implementation.
3.02         To provide the services                           As soon as possible in the   The 8 long-term experts from the technical assistanoe firm started work in
- of long-term experts                            case of the experts and as   July 1985. Half of the experts had already been replaced by the end of the
- of short-term consultants                       needed in the case of the   first year. The hiring of consultants was usually done as the need arose but
consultants        with major delays and, in many cases, when the equipment needed for the
work was not yet available. The competence of certain experts was       w
questionable, as was the quality of the work done by the team, which lacked
a united approach.
3.03(a)       To supply - or arrange for the supply of -- the          As needed          Carried out.
imported items, financed out of the proceeds of the
CreditL
3.03(b)       To ensure that the items and services financed out of  Throughout the Project    Carried out, in general, although the 1969 audit noted that various pieces of
the proceeds of the Credit are assigned exdusively to                      equipment purchased under the Project had disappeared and, despite an
the Projet                                                                  enquiry, had not been traced.
3.04(a)       To provide IDA with plans, specifications, reports,      As needed          Carried out but often delayed.
wai schedules and procumrement documents.
3.04(b)       To keep the accounts and adopt whatever procedures     Throughout the       The accounting documents and inventories were often poorly kept despite
are needed to ensure the smooth progres of te            Project          the training gien to the accountant at the strt of the Project. Procurement
ProjectL                                                                    procedures were often poorly carried out.
uo
3.05(a)       To provide asance  that school fees (Minerval) arc     September 1985       Not carried ouL                                                         0
kept by tbr chooLs.                                                                                                                                  - 
0 1,
o X-
!                                                                                                                              ,9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11



3.05(b)        To establish a plan for the use of the revenue from    September 1985        The Decree and the Depanrtmental Circular were published in July 1986.
textbook rental.
3.06         To submit to IDA, for its approval, the list of schools  As soon as possible  Ust submitted in July 1984 and deemed satisfactory.
where the textbooks financed out of the proceods of
the Credit are to be distributed.
3.07         To submit tentative plans to IDA for changing the       18 months after      The document containing proposals for the Department's reorganization was
Depariment's structure and procedures.               Project effectiveness  submitted in August 1986. IDA felt that it needed to be reworked and
rewritten. The final version was submitted in June 1981.
3.08         To submit to IDA, for its agreement, the procedures  At the appropriate time    Carried out but vehides only distributed as from May 1991.
for the organization and management of a fund for
vehicles for regional education officials.
3.09         The Project Office was to prepare and submit to IDA     By the dates set     There were considerable delays in submitting both the work programs and
for approval:                                                               the progress reports. The reports were, on several occasions, considered
(a) A work program for the year to come by                                  inadequate and had to be rewritten.
November I of each year
(b) A progress report and evaluation of the previous
year's activities by March 31 of each year
(c) A list of candidates for training outside Zaire; the
programs and institutions involved in training
seminars in Zairem 
3.10         The Government was to set up an inter-Departmental    As soon as possible    The Committee was estabfished by Decree in July 1984 and met five times in
Coordinating Committee which was to meet quarerly                            1985. Three meetings also took place in 1986. It met once in 1987, four
to examine the work programs, the budgets and the                            times in 1988 and once in 1989. Because of the infrequency during some
Projwect progress repots.                                                   years of its meeting, the Committee was therefore unable to adequately
perform its role of monitoring the Project or helping to solve any problems
encountered.
4.01          Project audits.                                          Each year           Obligation met, although there were major delays in submitting the reports.
4.02         Audit of the Project Funds account and of the Special    Within 6 months of the    The audit scheduled for December 1985 eventually took place in May 1986
Account by the Departmcnt of Finance, Budgeting     accounts being opened    and the reportw as submitted to IDA in August 1986.
and the Portfolio.
0
~JQ
m -3
0 X
I-
Iv ~



- 39 -
IL Use of Bank's Human Resources
Table 12: STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF WEEKS
PROJECr                                               FICAL YEAR
PHASES                                                                   :'               .   :      ....
l 83 1 84  1    8S | 86 187   8M   89 :    91 :                                        *
1. Pre-            14.6      9.2                                                                  23.8    20
appraisal
2. Appraisal                27.1                                                                  27.1    22.8
3. Negotiations              5.3       3.3                                                         8.6      7.2
4. Supervision                        10.5    16.2     7.9      8.6     9.9     4.7      1.7      59.5    50
TOTAL             14.6    41.6      13.8    16.2      7.9     8.6      9.9     4.7      1.7    119      100
% OF TOTAL        12.3   35         11.6    13.6      6.6     7.3      8.3     3.9      1.4    100



- 40 -
Table 13: IDA MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
:MMIONS  MONTHNUMBER'OF   MAN
MISSIONYSS:    1 MONTY             I t3PERSONSc (: I________
Before signature of the
credt                            .
Identification        November 82                                  1.7
Preparation           April 83                                     8.6
Appraisal             February 84                                  6.3
TOTAL                                                            16.6
Supevision
Supervision I         February/March 85   2 (PE-SF)                4
Supervision II        October 85         3 (PE-SF-DCA)             4.3
Supervision III       February 86        1 (PE)                    1.4
Supervision IV        May/June 86        2 (PE-SF)                 3.7
Supervision V         October 86         4 (PE-A-E-SF)             5.2
Supervision VI        June/July 87       1 (PE)                    1.4
Supervision VII       October 87         1 (PE)                    1.4
Supervision VIII      February/March 88   1 (PE)                   1.3
Supervision IX        October 88         1 (PE)                    2.1
Supervision X         February/March 89   1 (PE)                   1.6
Supervision XI        September 90       2 (IS-E)                  1
TOTAL                                                            27.4
() L6gende
A       Architect
DCA    Deputy Division Chief
E       Economist
CM      Credit Manager
IS      Implementation Specialist
PE      Education Planner
SF      Training Specialist



- 41 -
ZAIRE
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TO PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
Table 14: ANNUAL AND CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS (in SDRs)
FISCAL YE.AR                ANNUAL   JCUMULATIV                     % OF TOTAL            S.:O  ~YA
DISBURSENT D                                  D
85                     1,346,045.48          1,346,045.48           17.28                15.7
86                     1,408,861.81          2,754,907.29           3538                 32.0
87                     1,303,717.76          4,058,625.05           S2.12                47.2
88                     1,391,415.75          5,450,040.80           69.98                63.4
89                     1,240,169.92          6,690,210.72           85.91                77.8
90                       549,866.80          7,240,077152           92.96                84.2
91                       534,934.12          7,775,011.60           99.84                90.4
92                        12,533.72          7,787,545.32          100.00                90.6
TOTAL DISBURSED                  7,787,54532          7,787,54532            100.00                90.6
UNDISBURSED                     812,454.68           812,454.68           (10.43)                9.4
TOTAL CREDIT                   8,600,000.00         8,600,000.00          (110.43)              100.0
Table 15: EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS
Currency                     Countly            :    Zaire (Z)
Currency                     Credit                   Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
Date of Effectivenes     :   April 9, 1985
LAst Diabuwement             August 19, 1991
Year
1985         I SDR         -      1.10 US$           1 US$       -      55.79 Z
1986         I SDR         -      1.23 USS           1USS        -      71.10 Z
1987         I SDR         -      1.42 USS           1 US$       -     112.40 Z
1988         I SDR         -      1.35 US$           I USS       -     187.10 Z
1989         1 SDR         -      132 US$            I US$       -     381.60 Z
1990         1 SDR         -      1.41 US$           1 US$      -      740.20Z



