Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3766-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$9.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR AN
EDUCATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROJECT
August 15, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent 1/
Currency Unit    =       Zaire (Z)
Zaire 1.00               USS,0.032
US$1.00                  Z Z :31.6
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)             =     3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)              0.62 mile
1 sq kilometer (km2)          0.386 square miles
1 sq meter (m2)               10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)    =       1.13 cubic yards
Acronyms
DEPS     Department (Ministry) of Primary and
Secondary Education
PIP      Public Investment Program
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
SAMAFOS  Textbook and School Supplies Unit
TPR      Teacher Pupil Ratio
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December :31
1/  On September 12, 1983, Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange
rate regime comprising an offical rate and a free market rate. The
two rates were unified on February 28, 1984, and a weekly float of
the rate was introduced.  The exchange rate shown is the rate
applicable at the time of appraisal (February 1984).  The rate as of
July 15, 1984, was Z 36.4 to the UJS dollar.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
EDUCATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Zaire
Amount:                 SDR 8.6 (US$9.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:  The proposed project would assist the Ministry of
Primary and Secondary Education (DEPS) to improve
its planning, management and administrative capa-
bility and therefore its ability to provide more
efficiently education services of better quality.
In particular, the project would: (a) strengthen
education planning by introducing a program of
systematic data collection and analysis, and a
pilot program of school mapping; (b) improve the
relevance and quality of education by conducting a
survey of technical schools, preparing programs to
upgrade technical teachers, and assessing new meth-
ods of textbook production, distribution and cost
recovery; (c) strengthen education management and
administration by carrying out an in-depth analysis
of the aLdministrative structure and procedures of
DEPS; developing a plan for DEPS reorganization;
training DEPS staff, school principals and inspect-
ors in budgeting, accounting and management; and
providing better communication and transportation
equipmenit. The project would finance about 37
man-years of experts' services; 14 man-years of
overseas fellowship training; in-country training
for about 2,800 Zairians; and miscellaneous equip-
ment, supplies and materials (including materials
for printing and distribution of textbooks).
Benefits:               The major benefit of the project would be to pro-
vide the DEPS with a better management information
system, improved management and budgetary
procedures, and trained manpower with which to
improve education sector planning and operations.
An improved DEPS should be able to make better use
of existing resources and to attract the external
investm,ent necessary to improve the quality of
education and the output of trained manpower.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:                  The project's main risks are DEPS's capacity to
execute the project and Government's political will
to change DEPS's mode of operations. Provision of
experts' services and training would significantly
improve DEPS' implementation capacity. Extensive
dialogue during project preparation has shown
Government recognition of the need for improvement
in the efficiency of sector management and the qua-
lity of education in response to the difficult
financial situation and social pressure from
parents. An additionaL risk is posible respondent
bias which could affect the relability of data
obtained under the planning and statistics
component. This risk would be minimized through
data verification by school inspectors and
penalties for falsification.
Estimated Project Cost:
Local        Fo.e.ign   Total
…IJS$ millions-------
I. Education Planning
a. Planning and Statistics                   0.10         0.60       0.70
b. School Mapping                            0.12         0.78       0.90
II. Improving Education Quality
a. Technical Education                       0.18         0.69       0.87
b. Textbook Production                       0.08         0.38       0.46
III. Education Management and Administration
a. DEPS Management                           0.45         2.12       2.57
b. Training of Principals/Inspectors         0.17         1.05       1.22
c. Data Processing Services                  0.17         1.79       1.96
IV. Project Administration                        0.13         0.50       0.63
Base Cost (January 1984)                           1.40         7.91       9.31
Physical contingencies                             0.01         0.08       0.09
Price contingencies                                0.24         1.01       1.25
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes and duties)                          1.65         9.00 1/  10.65
1/ Including an advance of US$473,000 from the Project Preparation
Facility.



-. iii. -
Financing Plan:                                  Local       Foreign    Total
--------US$ millions-------
IDA                 -          9.00       9.00
Governlment        1.70          -        1.70
Total              1.70         9.00     10.70
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year   1985    1986    1987    1988
---------US$ millions-------
Annual              2.1     3.4      3.0     0.5
Cumulative          2.1     5.5      8.5     9.0
Rate of Return: N.A.
Appraisal Report: None
Map: IBRD No. 356OR8



I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR AN EDUCATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a pro-
posed development credit to the Republic of Zaire in the amount of SDR
8.6 million equivalent (US$9.0 million) on standard IDA terms to fin-
ance an Education Technical Assistance and Training Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1,
2.         An economic mission visited Zaire in March 1982; its report
was distributed in January 1983 (Report No. 4077-ZR).  Its major find-
ings and those of follow-up missions In the course of 1983, are summar-
ized below.
Background
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area
and the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita,
estimated at about US$210 in 1981, ranks among the lowest in the conti-
nent. Approximately one-third of its population of about 30 million
live in urban areas, and the population density is 12 persons per sq.
km. Urbanization has been proceeding at a rate of about 7 percent per
annum,  or more than twice the rate of population growth.   Although
agriculture (commercialized and subsistence) normally accounts for 30
percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for more than three-
quarters  of the population.   Mining and mineral-processing normally
account for about 18 percent of GDP; this sector has traditionally been
the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds
of the country's export earnings.
4.         When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared
for the change, both technically and institutionally. The first six to
seven years following independence were marked  by violent political
strife  and  a  severe  disruption  of  the  economy.    But  after  the
1/  This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's
Report for the SOFIDE VII Project (P-3818-ZR) dated May 16, 1984.



- 2 -
restoration of political order and stability in 1967, GDP grew by about
7 percent in real terms annually until  1974.   Since  then,  however,
Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties which are
attributable to both external and internal factors.   The weakness of
world copper prices through most of this period was a major contributor
to both the severity and the duration cf the crisis.
Evolution of Current Difficulties
5.        Until the late 1970s, Zaire's attempts to cope with the cri-
sis were uneven and uncoordinated.   As a result, by 1978, commercial-
ized GDP contracted to about 10 percent below the pre-crisis (1972-74)
level; the overall budgetary deficit attained a record level; and def-
icit financing, together with the worsening shortage of basic consumer
goods, fuel and intermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate
to about 50 percent.  Although the decline of GDP was arrested in 1979,
the economy  continued  to face seriousl difliculties  that year.   The
expansion of credit to the Government (to finance the budgetary
deficit) and to the rest of the economy continued to exert pressure on
prices, which rose by more than 1.00 percent in the capital city during
the year.  The balance of payments also remained under strong pressure,
as evidenced by the continued accumulation of external payment arrears
-- a trend which  had  started in 1975.   Although  two stabilization
programs,   supported  by  the  IMF,  were  adopted  and  three  debt
rescheduling agreements under the Paris Club were concluded during the
1975-79 period, these could not be implemented and therefore brought
limited relief.
6.        The year 1979 saw the beginning of more systematic efforts by
Zaire and its major donors to deal with the crisis.   These included a
new stabilization program supported by the IMF; debt rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club (December 1979) and the syndicated pri-
vate banks (April 1980); the preparation of a public investment program
(PIP) for 1979-81 with the help of the World Bank; the installation of
external advisers at the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance; the
revamping of some institutions (the Customs Office, the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Investment Commission), and the creation of others (a
Central Pay Directorate at the Ministry of Finance).   These and other
efforts produced considerable  improvements in 1980.   GDP expanded by
2.4 percent in real terms, aided by a strong recovery in copper produc-
tion.  The budgetary deficit was reduced substantially, and the infla-
tion rate was cut by more than half -- to about 44 percent -- despite
the devaluation of the zaire by about 30 percent vis-a-vis the SOR
early in the year.  At the same time, Zaire observed all the perform-
ance criteria under the new IMF-supported stabilization program and
complied with the debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club and
the syndicated private banks.



7.           Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in
mid-1981 Zaire adopted a three-year program of economic and financial
adjustment supported by an "Extended Fund Facility" (EFF) from the IMF
in an amount equivalent to SDR 9l2 million.   Zaire also concluded (in
July 1981) a new debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club. How-
ever, economic performance during the year fell below expectations
because of external and internal factors.  The weakening of the copper
and cobalt markets caused ZEaire's merchandise exports to fall by about
A0        US$540 million (or 26 percent) in nominal terms.   Real imports were
lower than at any year during the crisis and amounted to 40-50 percent
of the pre-crisis level.  As a result of these developments as well as
a weakening of fiscal discipline, the budgetary deficit expanded four-
fold in nominal terms -- to the equivalent of 7 percent of GDP.  Zaire
could not comply with either the criteria under the EFF or the July
1981 debt rescheduling agreement; it began accumulating external debt
arrears in the third quarter of 1981; and the EFF was formally cancel-
led effective June 21, 1982.
8.          World copper prices fell sharply in 1982 -- to the lowest
level (in real terms) in more than 30 years -- thus accentuating
Zaire's  economic  difficulties.   By year end,  external debt arrears
totaled about US$940 million, of which US$690 million were on public
debt and US$250 million on commercial debt and invisibles. The budget-
ary deficit expanded, too, to about twice the level of 1981 (in nominal
terms), and was equivalent to about 10 percent of GDP.  After recover-
ing by 2.4 percent a year iLn 1980 and 1981, GDP contracted marginally
(by about 1 percent) in 1982; the inflation rate edged upward, averag-
ing 37 percent; and the exchange rate came under strong pressure, the
spread between the parallel market rate and the official exchange rate
of the zaire rising to 3.5 to 1.
Government Action
9.        In mid-1981, in conjunction with the medium-term program sup-
ported by the EFF (paragraph 7), the Zairian authorities took a number
of interrelated steps toward stimulating supply, keeping the growth of
demand within appropriate limits, and improving foreign exchange mana-
gement:  the zaire was devalued by a further 40 percent vis-a-vis the
SDR; interest rates were adjusted upward; and the existing price con-
trols on most goods were removed in order to stimulate the private
sector.   In addition to completing a revised PIP for 1981-83, Zaire
began preparing an Agricu:Ltura'L Action Plan designed to bring about
improvements in the following areas:   (i) strengthening of institu-
tions; (ii) policies for pricing, marketing, credit, and foreign
exchange allocation; (iii) implementation of on-going projects; (iv)
investment programming for the sector; and (v) research, extension and
training.  The Action Plan was discussed at a meeting of the Consulta-
tive Group  for Zaire held in June  1982.   The  Zairian  authorities
cooperated with the IMF and the Bank in the preparation of a fiscal
study which comprised the budgetary process, (with emphasis on



- 4 -
the control over expenditures), tax reforn and the tax regime of
Ggcamines (the state-owned company producing most of Zaire's copper and
all of its cobalt).   This study was completed in May 1982, and since
then, a number of reforms recommended by the study have been adopted by
the Government.
10.         In 1982, Zaire made additional attempts to improve economic
management and institutional performance.  The Ministry of Agriculture
was significantly reorganized as part of a broad program of institu-
tional reforms  for the sector.   The Government  appointed new, more
broadly-based Executive Boards for Gecamines and SOZACOM (the state-
owned company marketing the bulk of Gecamines' output); important
changes were made in the top management of Ggcamines; and a new market-
ing arrangement between the two firms was approved.   Furthermore, the
Government announced the decision to "privatize" the ownership and/or
management of 37 public enterprises, and it further relaxed the remain-
ing price  controls.   The Goverrnment proceeded at the same time to
implement a policy of "decentralization" whose apparent objective is to
give Zaire's regions more autonomy.
11.        The year 1983 witnessed more systematic efforts to reestab-
lish the conditions for recovery.   First, in order to facilitate the
negotiation of a new agreement with the 'IMF, Zaire implemented a
"shadow" program for six months, focused on reducing the budgetary def-
icit and improving financial management.   Second, as part of a program
of major changes affecting the mining sector, the tax regime applying
to Gecamines was substantially revamped in line with the  recommenda-
tions of the IMF/Bank study referred to above (paragraph 9). Third, in
September 1983, Zaire started implementing a series of economic and
financial measures as a prelude to a formal agreement with the IMF and
a debt rescheduling linked to it.   In support of these measures,  in
December 1983, the IMF approved a 15-mconth Stand-by Arrangement in an
amount of SDR 228 million (US$246 million), equivalent to 100 percent
of quota. The IMF approved concurrently the purchase of SDR 114.5 mil-
lion (US$124 million) under the Compensatory Financing Facility. This
was immediately followed by a meeting of the Paris Club at which the
creditors agreed to reschedule outstanding arrears and maturities fal-
ling due in 1984 at terms compatible with the IMF agreement.   In the
meantime, the authorities prepared an Interim Economic Recovery Program
which brought together under the same framework the program of economic
and financial adjustment and an updated three-year public investment
program.   The Interim Program was presented to a meeting of the Con-
sultative Group which was held on December 21-22, 1983.  The partici-
pants concurred with the appropriateness of the measures taken by Zaire
as well as with the priorities of the public investment program, and
they indicated their willingness to increase their support to Zaire in
the medium term.
12.           The adjustment measures announced in September 1983 and
incorporated in the IMF program comprise the following: (i) the imme-
diate devaluation of the zaire by about 80 percent vis-i-vis the US



- 5 -
dollar; (ii) the introduction of a transitional dual exchange rate
regime consisting of an official rate and a free market rate, leading
to the unification of the two rates (i.e., a total "float") in February
1984; 1/ (iii) a substantial liberalization and simplification of the
exchange and trade system as a whole; (iv) a comprehensive revision of
customs duties involving significant reductions in tariffs on essential
foodstuffs, raw materials and intermediate goods and major increases on
luxury goods; (v) a considerable adjustment and liberalization of the
interest rate structure, including the lifting of all administrative
controls on lending rates of commercial banks (except for those appli-
cable to the non-coffee agriculture sector, for which they are 15 per-
cent); (vi) the further decontrol of prices, including producer prices
of all agricultural commodities; (vii) the adjustment of petroleum pri-
ces to take full account of the change in the exchange rate; and (viii)
the decision to limit wage increases in the public sector to about 40
percent through 1984, well below the estimated rate of inflation.  The
objective of the program is to improve Zaire's balance of payments
position and to begin reviving the economy.   On the fiscal side, the
program aims at eliminating the budgetary deficit (not counting exter-
nal debt payments) in 1984, thus bringing down substantially net
government borrowing from the domestic banking system.
13.          Zaire's latest public investment program covers the years
1983-85.  The thrust of the program continues to be rehabilitation of
existing capacity and infrastructure.   The new program represents a
step forward in several respects.  In particular, it is the product of
an attempt for the first time to tailor the program to resource avail-
abilities using a macroeconomic scenario. It is 13 percent smaller (in
real terms) than its predecessor for that reason and the projects have
been selected with a view to minimizing foreign exchange requirements.
As a result, the new program's external financing gap (US$290 million
over 1983-85) is much smaller than that of the last one in both abso-
lute and relative terms.   Furthermore, the program is consistent with
both the stabilization program and the investment budget for 1984. The
program has benefitted from a continued effort by the Zairian authori-
ties since 1979 to identify and either improve or eliminate "problem
projects". The monitoring effort was strengthened in 1982 and 1983 and
is to be intensified with the on-going introduction  of a new project
control and supervision system and strengthened inter-ministerial coor-
dination. At the Consultative Group meeting held in December 1983, the
participants took two important steps relevant to the execution of the
Public Investment Program.  They agreed on the appropriateness of con-
vening co-lender meetings on transport (highways) and Gecamines, and
they endorsed Zaire's decision to reactivate the External Resources
Coordination Committee (which had not met for about two years) partly
in order to review progress in providing Zaire with assistance, finan-
cial and technical, required in the crucial and difficult years ahead.
I/ The two rates were unified on February 24, 1984 at US$1 = Z 33.0.



- 6
Current Situation and Direction
14.         The difficulties experienced by Zaire since 1975 have had a
heavy economic and social cost. Much of the country's productive capa-
city and infrastructure has deteriorated, and real wages and salaries
have declined by more than half.  In the last two years, with the coop-
eration of the international community, significant progress has been
made in defining the policies and actions necessary for recovery, and a
number of important decisions have already been taken by Zaire.  The
developments of 1983 in particular represent: a net gain.   This can be
demonstrated by taking stock of the cumulative changes achieved with
respect to the liberalization of the economy.   Three years ago, all                      t
commodities (industrial and agricultural) were subject to controls at
the producer, wholesale and retail levels.   Today controls apply only
to petroleum products, public utilities and domestic transport.   Vir-
tually all commercial bank lending rates have been liberalized.   The
exchange rate has been brought to its most realistic level in recent
years, and a total float has been implemented.
15.         Overall, Zaire seems in a better position to make progress
than two years  ago  for several reasons.   First,  the measures  taken
recently are more comprehensive, more coherent and better prepared than
before. A case in point is the adoption of the new fiscal regime for
G6camines, which enables both the Government and the company to improve
resource planning, and the revision of the Customs Code to complement
changes in the exchange rate regime.   Second, some of the improvement
which has taken place, especially in the budgetary sphere in 1983, is
structural in nature:   some expenditures have been curtailed for good
(e.g., through efforts to rationalize the government payroll); and some
categories of revenues (e.g., customs, tax contributions by G6camines)
have received a permanent boost through the exchange rate adjustment.
16.        Although Zaire's exports are expected to improve in the next
three years largely because of the anticipated recovery of copper pri-
ces, Zaire's resource constraints will remain severe.   This is partly
due to the external public debt burden.   The latest Paris Club agree-
ment affects only arrears and 1984 maturities; although as a result of
the agreement the debt service ratio in 1984 has been reduced to 18
percent, the contractual debt service due in 1985-89 is equivalent to
nearly 35 percent of projected exports cf goods and nonfactor services
-- a ratio which would seem incompatible with even a modest economic
recovery.  Moreover, as a result of the sharp drop in commitments over
the last few years, the undisbursed project pipeline -- the source of
future disbursements -- has been reduced to US$670 million, compared to
US$1.2 billion in 1975. While the donors have indicated their disposi-
tion to increase their aid to Zaire progressively, this will take time
and depend on the improvement of external confidence.



- 7 -
17.       The Zairian authorities are aware that in these circumstances
they will need to make a determined and sustained effort to execute the
new stabilization program, implement the debt rescheduling agreement,
continue to improve economic management and stimulate the private sec-
tor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE 2/
18.         From 1969 to date, the Association has approved 36 credits
totalling about US$560.0 million for agriculture, transport, develop-
ment finance company operations, water supply, power, petroleum techni-
cal assistance and education projects.  The Bank Group has also exten-
ded grants totalling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two
planning assistance projects in Zaire.   In 1975, the Bank made a loan
of US$100 million for the Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was
cofinanced by the European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab
Foreign Bank, and which provided for special repayment arrangements
linked to the project's export earnings. A Technical Assistance Credit
was recently approved to assist Gecamines with its efforts to restruc-
ture its organization, improve its manpower and prepare a long-term
rehabilitation and expansion program.  The IFC, which has a USS760,000
equity participation in the Socift6 Financiere de Dgveloppement Econo-
mique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan in 1978 for an offshore
oil production project and a US$230,000 loan in 1982 for studies rela-
ted to the development of an aluminium complex at Banana.    Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC invest-
ments as of March 31, 1984.
19.        A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution building.   The development finance  company (SOFIDE) was
established in 1970 with assLstance from IFC and IDA.  The major trans-
port agencies,  ONATRA,  Societe Nationale des Chemins  de Fer Zairois
(SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), Regie des Voies Maritimes
(RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), have received technical and financial
assistance from the AssociatiLon, which also helped                establish
the National Livestock Development Authority (ONDE).   In the case of
Gecamines, the Bank loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing and now
supported by a technical assistance credit, intended to define ways and
means to strengthen the management, financial position and planning of
the company.
20.        In general, project imp:Lementation has been difficult due to
the country's  inadequate manpower and management  capability and,  in
recent years, because of the economic crisis. In the last two or three
2/  This  section  is  substantially  the  same  as  Part  II  of  the
President's Report for the SOFIDE VII Project (P-3818-ZR) dated
May 16, 1984.



- 8 -
years, release of the required budgetary funds has been difficult
periodically  because  of  budgetary  constraints.    Lack  of  foreign
exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the deterioration of the
transport network and marketing system have resulted in severe supply
problems for most projects.   Recruiting and retaining adequate staff
has also been difficult.   In January  1980 the Bank undertook with
Zairian officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which, for
the first time, provided an integrated, view of implementation problems;
this resulted in an acceleration and improvement in the utilization of
Bank Group assistance, particularly in the agricultural sector. A sec-
ond overall review, focussing on macro-economic and sectoral issues and
on their impact on project implementLtion, took place in May 1983 and
assisted the Government in formulating the important economic measures
of September 1983 (para. 12).
21.         Fourteen credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:
Credits 152, 292, 536 and 916-ZR (First, Second, Third and Fourth High-
way Projects); Credit 255-CK (River Transport Project); Credits 272-CK
and 264-ZR (First and Second Education Projects); Credit 398 and 697-ZR
(Livestock Development and Ituri Livestock Projects); Credits 190, 271,
463 and 710-ZR (First, Second, Third and Fourth SOFIDE Projects);
Credit 625-ZR (Water Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines). Completion
reports have been issued for all prcjects except Gecamines.   Perform-
ance Audit Reports have been issued for the First SOFIDE, the First,
Second and Third Highway Projects, the River Transport Project, the
Rail/River Project and the First Education Project.  The conclusion of
the audit and completion reports was that the Bank Group's impact on
institution building had been mixed. SOFIDE was evolving as an effect-
ive and competent institution, and the Office des Routes, the highway
agency, had been able to establish an. effective administration. On the
other hand, ONATRA's performance hacl not improved as a result of the
first River Transport Project but did. improve under the Rail/River pro-
ject; implementation by RVF and RVM had dLsappointing results.  As for
education, more attention to institution building activities would have
been beneficial; administrative weaknesses in the Department of Educa-
tion were cited as partly responsible for poor performance under the
First Project and the inability to implement investment components
under the Second Education Project which resulted in cancellation of
IJS$18.8 million in February 1983.   The proposed Education Technical
Assistance and Training Project would strengthen administrative, finan-
cial and planning practices in the Department of Primary and Secondary
Education. All project entities had encountered operating difficulties
beyond their control as the economy deteriorated, financial resources
grew scarcer and the problems besetting the investment environment were
exacerbated by Government's zairianization/radicalization measures.
Bank Group support to SOFIDE and the! OR is continuing under the Fourth
and Fifth SOFIDE projects (Crs. 710 and 998-ZR) and Fourth and Fifth
Highway Projects (Cr. 916-ZR and Cr. 1290-ZR).   ONATRA is benefitting
from the ongoing Modernization (Cr. 1180-ZR) and Matadi/Kinshasa Ports
Rehabilitation (Cr. 1335-ZR) projects.



- 9 -
22.        The rate of disbursement to Zaire is average for the Eastern
Africa Region. For fiscal years 1981-83, disbursements totalled US$92
million compared with new commitments of US$218.6 million.   The dis-
parity between disbursements and commitments is a result of a signifi-
cant increase in commitment:s in FY82 and FY83.   In this same period,
the average annual disbursement rate was 20 percent, only slightly
lower than the rate for other countries of the region. While disburse-
ment performance in generaL is satisfactory, difficulties have arisen
in several projects. In the case of early credits for transport, educ-
ation and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a
strong project entity caused implementation delays.   Economic condi-
tions were also a factor in slowing project programs in instances where
government counterpart funds were not available (Third Highway, Credit
660-ZR;  Second  Education,  Credit  624-ZR)  and  where  the  investment
environment experienced slow recovery from the aftermath of abrupt
nationalization  (Fourth  SOFIDE,  Credit  710-ZR).         Future  project
implementation should be less affected by the above influences given
the strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and efforts
by  the  Government  to  Improve  budgetary  support  of  IDA-financed
projects. At the end of 1982, the Bank Group's share of Zaire's total
debt disbursed and outstanding was about 10 percent.
23.         In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have
been directed towards ass:isting in the rehabilitation and development
of the agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design
and implementation of appropriate new policies.   Investments in indus-
try were also emphasized through assistance to SOFIDE. Initial efforts
In support of the energy sector include the Shaba Power System Rehabi-
litation Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) and the Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric
Power Project (Cr. 1421-ZR).   Our lending will continue to assist the
development of the agriculture sector within the framework of the new
Agricultural Action Plan (see para. 9 above); to promote the develop-
ment of the industrial and mining sectors; and to support the transport
sector (in particular, the Voie Nationale). In addition, further sup-
port will be considered for the energy sector to develop power and
petroleum resources.   The proposed Technical Assistance and Training
Project to improve the management of the education sector and relevance
of education programs will contribute to relieving the manpower
constraints of the productive sectors which are the focus of the Bank
Group's lending strategy.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Administration
24.        Administration. of t:he education system is presently divided
between two ministries - primary and secondary, university and scienti-
fic research - each with its own structure and separate staff.   While
there is some overlap in responsibility (particularly for technical
education) there is little inter-ministerial coordination in areas such
as planning and policy formulation and execution.



- 10 -'
25.       The primary and secondary systems account for over 98 percent
of the student population of about six million students 3/ (4.5 mil-
lion primary, 1.4 million secondary, 32,000 tertiary level) most of
whom are located in areas remote to the centralized administration in
the capital.   Religious groups (Catholic, Protestant, Kimbanguist and
Islamic) are the predominent administrators of the primary and second-
ary schools. The Government attempted to administer these schools from
1974-77, but had to request the religious bodies to resume administra-
tion when it became apparent that there were insufficient government
personnel to operate the system.  Religious groups now administer about
80 percent of primary and 65 percent of secondary schools, almost
entirely staffed by Zairian teachers.  According to Conventions between
the religious groups and the Government, the latter should finance
teachers' salaries, operating costs, maintenance and repair of schools,
equipment renewal and school extensions. The religious groups are res-
ponsible as non-profit organizations for management of schools
entailing:   their internal organization, operation, personnel and fin-
ancial management and organization of the social life of students, all
in accordance with principles and norms set forth by the Government.
The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (DEPS) is responsible
for establishment of these norms and general ooerating rules, design of
curricula, and employment of all teaching personnel.
Structure
26.       The education system of Zaire comprises: (a) 6 years of pri-
mary education, officially beginning at age six; (b) 2-7 years of
secondary level education, depending on the program, inclusive of voc-
ational and primary teacher training programs; and (c) 4-6 years of
university training.  In 1979/80, estimated gross enrollment ratios at
the primary and secondary levels (76 percent and 18 percent of eligible
school-age youths, respectively) compared favorably with the average
for Sub-Saharan Africa but unfavorably wiJth low-income countries as a
group.  In higher education (ages 17-21), Zaire's enrollment ratio --
about 2 percent in 1981/82 -- was higher than the average for Sub-
Saharan Africa and about the same as the average for low income coun-
tries.   Females make up 45 percent of the enrollment at the primary
level and about 40 percent at the secondary level; no data are avail-
able for higher education.   Internal efficiency of education is low;
estimated completion rates show that a student beginning the first
grade has a 25 percent chance of reaching the 6th grade; only 35 per-
cent of students entering secondary school finish the 9th grade and
only 13 percent complete the 5-year academic training (12th grade). A
high attrition rate also characterizes the university level with only
38 percent of first year students continuing to the second year; of
3/ Statistics for the education sector in Zaire are approximations,
often based on small samples or extrapolations from 1978 data when
the last reliable education statistics were compiled.  The statis-
tics used in this report come from a variety of sources including
the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (DEPS) and reli-
gious groups.  The wide disparity in education statistics,  parti-
cularly concerning the numbers of schools, teachers and pupils,
underscores the need for better data collection to serve as a basis
for education planning and management.



- 11 -
those continuing their studies, 32 percent finish four years and 7
percent complete six years.
Sectoral Issues
27.        The education system has grown rapidly since the mid-1970s,
especially at the primary and secondary levels, although the effects of
that growth are difficult to verify since statistics for enrollment,
class sizes, programs offered and the exact number of teachers have not
been compiled since 1978. It is estimated that from 1975 to 1983, stu-
dent enrollment grew from 3.5 mtillion to 4.5 million for the primary
level and from 0.5 million to 1.4 million for the secondary level (3
percent and 14 percent p.a., respectively). During the 1975-83 period,
primary and secondary teachers are estimated to have increased at an
average rate of 6 percent per annum (150 to 270 thousand).   In 1983,
according to DEPS estimates, the teacher-pupil ratios (TPR) at the pri-
mary and secondary levels were 1:23 and 1:18 respectively (including
school administrators), indicating fewer students per teacher than in
most developing countries.
28.       The rapid increase in teachers presents two problems.  First,
judging by the low TPR, the total number of teachers in primary and
secondary education seems excessive.  According to a study prepared by
the Ministry of Plan and the DEPS in 1981, 4/ there were 30,000
primary school teachers employed in excess of those required by Govern-
ment's TPR norms and another 13,400 receiving salaries without school
assignments (of a total of 181,000 primary teachers). At the secondary
level, there were 23,000 teachers beyond Government norms (of a total
of 73,000 teachers).   A control effort was initiated in 1982 with the
result that the teaching staff at the primary and secondary levels was
reduced in 1983 by about 12,000. However, these reductions were decided
by senior Government officials, many of whom were not familiar with the
problems of the education sector, and were not based upon adequate edu-
cational norms and standards.   The results are now being reviewed by
DEPS and Ministry of Finance officials who will attempt to rationalize
the teacher payroll on the basis of existing data on teacher qualifi-
cations, number of pupils and school locations, and achieve a further
reduction in the number of teaclhers to 180,000 - 210,000 in 1984 (TPR
would average 1:30 - 1:28 at the primary and secondary levels). While
the number of teachers may be reduced, the reliability of the results
is still limited by the quality of the data.   Second,  despite the
excess in numbers, there is a shortage of qualified teachers. Salaries
are too low to make the profession attractive and it is estimated by
DEPS that many teachers hold two teaching positions or have a second
job outside the sector (the aveXrage primary teacher monthly salary is
Z 600 or US$20.00).  Many primaLry teachers enter the training program
because they failed to gain admission to other academic streams. Fur-
thermore, only 20-30 percent of teacher trainees actually enter the
teaching profession, since better remuneration can be obtained by
becoming a higher education student with an automatic allowance approx-
imating a teacher's salary.
4/  Previsions  Rdgionalisi5es  des  Couts  en  Education  Pour  Cycles
Primaire et Secondaire,, 1981/82 - 1986/87, May 1981.



- 12 -
29.        Uncontrolled growth in the number of schools also contributed
to the rapid expansion in the number of teachers. Since 1979, the DEPS
criteria for the opening of schools have not been respected, and a
large number of schools were opened without regard for geographic or
demographic justification and without coordination among the religious
group administrators.   The situation was further confused  by several
transfers of responsibilities for payroll preparation and payment of
salaries  to different ministries.   The teacher payroll  ceased to be
paid on the basis of files maintained by the local government adminis-
tration or parishes and was instead compiled through negotiation with
school  representatives.    Given  this  situation,  a priority  task for
Zaire is to identify the location of al.1 schools, assess their viabil-
ity, reduce the duplication of schools, establish school opening
criteria defining specific catchment areas for the viable schools, and
maintain strict enforcement of th(ese criteria.
Educational Quality
30.        All schools, whether church affiliated or official, are dep-
endent upon the central Government for operating and maintenance funds
and for provision of school supplies and materials.   In recent years,
insufficient allocation of budget funds for operating expenses and the
introduction of a policy requiriag that enrollment fees no longer be
retained by the schools, but be remitted to the central Treasury, have
had detrimental effects on the quality of education.5/ If enrollment
fees were retained at the school 'Level, an additional source of revenue
would be available to contribute either to operating expenditures or to
quality improvements.   As part of its program to decentralize public
administration and in recognition that budgetary constraints will con-
tinue to limit its contribution to the sector, the Government decided
in January 1984, to reinstate the po!icy of retaining and managing
enrollment fees at the school level (para. 51).  Use of the fees would
be decided by managing committees comprised of representatives of
teachers, parents and the Government administration.
31.        It is estimated that less than 20 percent of Zairian pupils
have access to textbooks.   Local book production during the past few
years has averaged less than two million textbooks per year because of
the unavailability of foreign exchange to purchase paper and the
5/  Parents are required  to pay annually per student:   (a) school
fees (frais scolaires), at the primary level (Z 30 per pupil) and
at the secondary level (Z 50 per pupil) of which 75 percent is
retained at the school level while 25 percent goes to the
regional and sub-regional level to pay for administrative costs;
(b) enrollment  fees  (minervaL),  at both  primary and  secondary
level (Z 20 per pupil) which are designated for general education
improvements; and (c) a compulsory insurance fee of Z 3 sent to a
government administered insurance fund in Kinshasa. In addition,
many parents incur expenses for (i) textbooks and supplies since
school fees are insufficient to purchase these items; (ii) sup-
plemental fees set by church affiliated schools (to finance
school construction and maintenance when Government funds are not
forthcoming).



- 13 -
requirement of advance payment by private printers. Problems have also
arisen regarding procurement and distribution of textbooks and supplies
as a result of poor performance and management and financial problems
within the government subsidized Textbook and School Supplies Unit,
SAMAFOS.   Overcentralization, lack of incentives and ineffective cost
recovery have adversely affected SAMAFOS' operations, particularly out-
side Kinshasa, and have prompted the Government to consider other
alternatives. The Second Educat:ion Project (Credit 624-ZR) financed a
textbook study 6/ which established that Zaire has adequate printing
capacity and book films (from which to print) to meet much of its needs
and formulates several options for the supply of textbooks and a method
of financing books.   The Government has reviewed these options and is
considering a program which would (a) supply a textbook per two
students; (b) use the private sector to distribute textbooks; and (c)
introduce a cost recovery scheme modeled on the book usage fee system
of the schools administered by the Catholic Church.   A pilot textbook
component adopting these principles would be included in the proposed
project.
32.       Development of the productive sectors of the economy is con-
strained by the low quality of technically and vocationally oriented
personnel. Technical and vocational secondary schools, which enrolled
about 90,000 students in 1983, are ill-equipped and staffed largely by
unqualified teachers (it is estimated that 71 percent of technical,
vocational and agricultural teachers have not received adequate train-
ing).   A 1981 Unesco  study  concluded  that  the  private  sector  was
reluctant to employ graduates of agricultural and technical schools
because their training was inadequate to respond to the needs identi-
fied by the industries surveyed for the study. The report recommended
that in order to improve the quality of technician training (i) resour-
ces should be concentrated on a limited number of schools, particularly
accredited schools where some equipment is already available and where
teachers can be upgraded; and (ii) curriculum should be revised to
increase  the emphasis  on practical training.   The  proposed  project
would therefore survey technical schools, and prepare programs to
upgrade teachers and equipment for a select number of schools.
Administration
33.        DEPS is divided into seven divisions consisting of Planning,
Inspectorate, Curriculum, Teacher Training and School Law, Technical/
Vocational Training, Administration (finance/personnel/general adminis-
tration) and Project Implementation.   About 900 staff are located in
Kinshasa and 1400 in the other eight administrative regions.  Although
DEPS staff are, in general, well-qualified, the effectiveness of its
operations is limited by administrative shortcomings and physical con-
straints.   The distribution of responsibilities among the seven divi-
sions is ill-defined and i-atra-departmental coordination of activities
6/ OBELTEN Textbook Report.



- 14 -
needs to be improved.   DEPS internal procedures  tend to concentrate
decision making for even day-to-day decisions at the highest level;
central Government procedures to which F)EPS must conform, are cumber-
some and often ill-adapted to DEPS needs (par'ticularly in the areas of
payroll and budget preparation and execution). Physical facilities for
the central administration are inadequate; DEPS staff are located in
four distant buildings lacking telephones and basic equipment and mate-
rials for daily operations.   Links between the central administration
and the regions are strained by tlhe lack of a well developed physical
and communications  infrastructure.   The primary  link with  the local
level is through the school inspection system.   However, because of
inspectors' transport constraints,  inspection of all schools has not
been possible, limiting the reliability of data on schools and person-
nel. The proposed project would carry out an analysis of DEPS proce-
dures and administrative structure with a view to preparing a plan for
administrative and physical reorganization.   To improve central DEPS
links with the regional and local levels, a pilot project would supply
a means of transport to a limited number of inspectors, carry out a
program to train inspectors and s,chool level staff in administrative
and management procedures and supply communications equipment.
34.        Recurrent and investment budgeting are carried out by:   (i)
DEPS which is responsible for defining its activities and sector
investments and preparing budgetary requests, (ii) the Ministry of
Finance which oversees the preparation of the recurrent budget and
allocates  resources  for  recurrent  and  investment  requirements,  and
(iii) the Ministry of Plan which oversees preparation and execution of
the investment budget, including assuring consistency with the sector
and country objectives as stated in the Public Investment Program.
DEPS has had difficulty in acquiring adequate budgetary funds in part
because of its own unsystematic budlget preparation, but also because of
cumbersome and overcentralized commitmernt prccedures set down by the
Ministries of Finance and Plan.  Commitment authority is often so late
that materials and supplies needed for daily operations cannot be pur-
chased. While the Government has taken some corrective measures (e.g.,
finance inspectors have been seccinded to all technical ministries),
these have centered on administrative controls rather than on improving
coordination and  effectiveness  of resource use.   DEPS  has  received
about 5 percent of the investment budget over the period 1979-83, most
of which was for small construction projects.  With the transfer out-
side of DEPS of the construction unit which prepared the budget, there
are presently no staff in DEPS familiar with investment budget prepara-
tion and no clearly defined internal procedures.  The proposed project
would review DEPS' own procedures and means to improve coordination
with the Ministries of Finance and Plan. The creation of a Coordinat-
ing Committee which would include representatives of the economic
ministries (para. 61) would also help to ensure better communication
and participation of these ministries in work program and budgeting
decisions of DEPS.



- 15 -
35.        Over the perioel 1979-83, expenditures for education absorbed
an average of about 20 percent of total government budgetary expendi-
tures.   Roughly 95 percent of education outlays consisted of current
expenditures and most of t:hese were absorbed by teacher salaries (which
account for 98 percent of total primary and secondary expenditures and
40 percent of the Government's total wage and salary bill in 1983). In
spite of the large expenditures on teacher salaries, allocations for
school operation, maintenance, materials and investment are so low that
expenditures per student at the primary and secondary levels averaged
only Z 200 in 1983 7/.  Unit costs for higher education are consider-
ably higher (Z10,300) owing to, inter alia, generous fellowships and
allowances  given  automatically  to  university  students.    Financial
resources could be used more effectively by instituting policy changes
including stricter recruitment of teachers, enforcement of teacher/
pupil ratios, retention of fees at the local level, better control of
the opening of schools and closer cooperation with the religious group
administrators.   The quaLity of education could then be improved by
using part or all of the savings thus realized to adjust salaries of
qualified and experienced teachers and finance other recurrent items
essential for quality improvements which are currently under-funded
(in-service training of teachers, maintenance of facilities, provision
of education materials).
36.       The education sector's share of the capital budget averaged 5
percent during the 1979-83 period.   In 1983, capital expenditures at
the primary and secondary levels represented 10 percent of total capi-
tal outlays for education or less than 1 percent of the total capital
budget. The primary and secondary levels receive virtually no external
financing; donors have gradually withdrawn their assistance except for
experts' services, in part: because of DEPS's poor performance in sector
administration and implementation of investment projects.   Belgium is
the principal external donor in the education sector, providing techni-
cal personnel as teachers at the secondary and university levels.
France and Belgium provide assistance in curriculum and textbook deve-
lopment, while Canada has provided paper for small scale textbook pro-
duction.  UNESCO, financedl by UNDP, has recently supplied expertise in
support  of the reform of the primary and secondary systems.   It is
expected that better resource management and administration by DEPS
would make the sector more attractive to external financing.
Zaire's Education Strategy and Reforms
37.       At independence, Zaire was left with a primary system of high
quality but with limited access, and little in the way of a structure
for secondary and higher education. With virtually no university grad-
uates, Zaire shifted resources to this level of education in an effort
7/ A breakdown of expenditures between primary and secondary education
is not available.



- 16 -
to qualify Zairians and replace expatriates who had occupied mid- and
high-level positions. Zaire succeeded in expanding the higher level of
the education system but at the expense of the primary and secondary
levels.
38.       Since the 1960s, Zaire has attempted to implement a number of
reforms of its education system.   However,  little progress has been
achieved partly because reform objectives have not been commensurate
with the financial and human resources available to implement them.
The most recent general reform effort (1980-82) recognized that,
although a commendable number of students are enrolled at the univer-
sity level: (a) the quality of output has been affected by the lack of
a good primary/secondary base; and (b) the emphasis on higher education
without adequate manpower planning has created an educated mass whose
skills do not meet Zaire's socio-economic needs.   Attention has now
turned toward correcting the deterioration in primary and secondary
education.  A National Reform Committee for Primary and Secondary Edu-
cation was convened in October 1982. Work of the committee has focus-
sed on three areas which will form the basis for launching a
primary/secondary reform over the years 1984-89, including:
(a)  a review of the primary/secondary system in light of exper-
ience with previous reforms;
(b)  how   to   "finalize"   or   "professionalize"   primary   and
secondary education, and the problems related to the elimi-
nation of the Cycle d'Orientation (a two-year introductory
program prior to the secondary level); and
(c) the programs and structures needed to implement the reform.
39.          Successful implementation of the reform will depend to a
large extent upon resolution of the managerial and financial problems
which the Government is beginning to confront. In order for DEPS staff
to contribute effectively to the resolution of these problems and to
reform implementation, it is essential t:hat they receive training in
the areas  of planning,  administration and budgeting,  that they have
adequate support equipment and that technical expertise be available
for guidance, logistical support and training.
Bank Experience and Lending in the Sector
40.        Two IDA Credits have been approved for the education sector:
Credit 272-ZR, approved November 30, 1971 in the amount of US$6.5
million which closed December 31,, 1981 and Credit 624-ZR, approved
April 30, 1976 in the amount of US$21.0 million which closed September
30, 1982.
41.       The First Education Project was to assist in:  (a) the train-
ing of teachers for primary education, for secondary-level general and



- 17 -
technical education, and middle-level industrial technicians; (b) a
management study; and (c) al survey of manpower needs.  Due to lack of
timely provision of counterpart funds, delays caused by civil strife,
and a considerable rise in construction costs coupled with high infla-
tion, the scope of the project had to be reduced by about 50 percent,
retaining only one secondary technical school and three higher-level
teacher-training  institutes.   A Project Completion Report prepared by
Unesco/Government concluded that positive, but mixed, results were
obtained  for the  pedagogical objectives.   Of the  three higher-level
teacher training institutes: (a) the National Institute of Education
had increased its enrollment, originally planned for 1,500, to 3,000,
but despite implementation of curriculum and training programs, the
quality and effectiveness of the Institute suffered from excessive
enrollment; (b) the Primary Teacher Training College had had positive
results in training administrators, but failed to meet all the object-
ives for training of instrtuctors; and (c) the Higher Technical Teacher
College had reorganized and improved its training as envisaged. Physi-
cal execution of the project experienced delays at all stages of imple-
mentation owing to managerLent weaknesses, disturbances in the Shaba
Region, inflation, repeated devaluations of the zaire and, above all,
late provision of government budgetary funds.
42.        The Second Education Project included components to construct
and equip five rural primary teacher training schools; rehabilitate and
re-equip six agricultural technician training schools and one higher
agricultural institute; provide technical assistance and fellowships
for the aforementioned institutions; evaluate the new programs promoted
in the project; and provide funds to undertake pre-investment studies
in preparation for future education projects.   As a result of imple-
mentation delays and very high inflation, civil works costs had risen
120 percent by 1978.  DEPS init:Lally wanted to maintain the project in
its entirety, but attempts to find co-financiers to cover the overruns
were unsuccessful. In 1981, IDA agreed to consider an amendment of the
project which would have eliminated the civil works component and would
have utilized the corresponding funds to provide critically needed
educational materials and equipment for about 30 schools, and addi-
tional fellowships for the successful teacher training component. Des-
pite agreement on the principle  of amendment and  the  elements of a
revised project, the Government failed to carry out measures which were
necessary for IDA to approve the amendment.  The Credit was closed as
scheduled on September 30, 1982, and the undisbursed balance of US$18.8
million was cancelled.
Lessons Learned and Rationale for IDA Involvement
43.         The Bank Group's strategy in the First and Second Education
Projects  was aimed  at alleviating  the shortage of qualified  teachers
and of skilled manpower:   both projects were intended  to improve and
expand teacher training for the primary and secondary levels and
technical/vocational and  agricultural streams.   Despite  considerable



- 18 -
tion of the First Project and limited implemenl:ation of the Second Pro-
ject,  progress was made in attaining  these  objectives, which  remain
valid.   The Bank Group's experience in the sector has shown that the
impact of investments has been limlted considerably by planning, admi-
nistrative and budgetary weaknesses in DEPS. Trhe Government has recog-
nized these weaknesses and is now confronting the task of making its
education system more cost effectLve and responsive to the country's
manpower needs.   The streamlining  and rationalizing  of the  teachers'
payroll and the pursuit of practical pedagogical objectives through the
reform of the primary and secondary systems are steps in the right
direction.  However, neither efforl: is likely to succeed unless sector
management improves.  IDA financing is therefore proposed to assist the
Ministry of Primary and Secondary Educal:ion where management problems
are most acute.  With regard to higher education, the Bank Group will
initiate a program of sector work to define means of reducing unit
costs and matching outputs more closely with employment possibilities.
Bank Group assistance for higher education would be considered once the
results of the aforementioned sector studies are available.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.        The proposed project was identified in April 1983, and pre-
pared  by  Government with  the  assistance  of experts  financed  by  an
advance from the Project Preparation Facility (P262-ZR).  The project
was appraised in February 1984, and negotiations were held in Washing-
ton Lrom May 31 to June 1, 1984.  The Zairian delegation was led by
Mr. Balekomoso Angbiko mo Endangose, Senior Aclvisor to the Minister of
Primary and Secondary Education. A Credi.t and Project Summary is given
at the beginning of this report and Supplementary Project Data appear
in Annex III.   No staff appraisal report has  been prepared  for this
project.
Project Objectives
45.         The main objective of the pro ject would be to improve DEPS's
planning, management and administrative capability and therefore its
ability to provide more efficiently education services of better
quality.    The project would assist the Government to: (a) strengthen
education planning by introducing systematic data collection and school
mapping; (b) improve the relevance and quality of education by conduct-
ing a survey of technical schools, preparing programs to upgrade tech-
nical teacher skills and assessing new methods of textbook production,
distribution and cost recovery; ancd (c) strengthen education management
and administration, by analysing the administrative structure of DEPS,
developing a plan to reorganize DEPS, training staff, and providing
communication and transportation equipmenit.



- 19 -
Project Description
46.       The project would requiLre 37 man-years of specialists' servi-
ces; 14 man-years of overseas fellowship training; in-country training
of about 2,800 Zairians in school management; and equipment, vehicles
and materials to carry out the activities described below:
Education Planning
47.          Planning and Statistics.   The project would aid DEPS to
improve the collection and analysis of educational, administrative and
financial data at the national, regional and local levels.   An educa-
tion planning specialist (30 man-months) would be engaged to assist
DEPS's Planning Division in the design, implementation and evaluation
of a program of data gathering and analysis, for Zaire's primary and
secondary schools.   The three-year program would,  in the first two
years, train planners; prepare and test in selected regions the distri-
bution, collection and analysis of statistical questionnaires; and
review the quality and usefulness of the data and the collection
methodology. In the third year, the program would be expanded to the
national level with an assessment of how data could be used for admini-
strative,  financial and staffing decisions.   Short term specialists
(nine man-months) and three Zairian planners to be trained overseas
(total six man-months) would help prepare seminars for about 65
regional staff in education planning and data collection who In turn
would assist with the training of school principals.  Basic equipment
and materials needed for the production of reports within the Planning
Division would be financed under the project.
48.       School Mapping.  A national school mapping exercise is essen-
tial to determine the location and number of schools as a basis for
rationalizing the distribution of education facilities and to improve
the efficiency of resource allocation within the educational system.
The project would fund a pilot school mapping exercise in two locali-
ties, the Kenge area of the Bandundu Region and the Madimba area of the
Bas-Zaire Region. The two regions were chosen for their differing geo-
graphic, infrastructural and educational characteristics in order to
have the necessary data and experience to allow DEPS to plan a national
school mapping exercise.   Inc:Luded in the project would be a school
mapping specialist (36 man-months), short-term specialists in geogra-
phy, economics and statistics/computer science (18 man-months), over-
seas training for two Zairians (each for six months) in school mapping
plus the costs of running in-country training seminars and on-site
expenses for the teams carrying out the three-month school mapping
exercise in each pilot area. A school mapping strategy would be devel-
oped as a result of the pilot: project which could be used in other
areas of the country. The specialists would also ascertain whether the
school mapping exercise could be verified through satellite photographs
which could reduce costs and expedite a national school mapping exer-
cise.



- 20 -
Education Quality Improvements
49.        Technical Education.   A survey of technical and professional
schools and training opportunities would be carried out to select those
schools which would qualify for upgrading and to determine their equip-
mient and teacher training needs.   Six qualified Zairians would be up-
graded through overseas training (about three months each) in specific
areas of technical education planning and operations, and, together
with a technical education specialist  (24 man-months) and short-term
specialists (12 man-months) in programming and teacher training, would
oversee the preparation of improved teacher training packages in tech-
nical fields for which there is local job market demand (agriculture,
electricity, construction, auto and diesel mechanics, business/commerce
and carpentry). The training packages would be developed by groups of
local consultants (24 at about 3 nman-months each) and tested during a
three month seminar for about 40 Zairian technical school teachers. In
the preparation of training packages, pr:Lority would be given to enab-
ling teachers to make better use of existing facilities, equipment and
materials.
50.        Textbook Production.  To assess new methods of textbook pro-
duction, distribution and cost recovery, the project would finance the
production and distribution of about 200,000 mathematics and French
language textbooks for the first tvro years of secondary school for the
regions of Bas Zaire and Equateur, which because of dissimilar geogra-
phical and infrastructural features present different types of distri-
bution difficulties.   Textbooks were se:Lected from among those which
are already a part of the approved curricula and on the basis of exa-
mination results identifying the subjects needing the most attention.
Local private printing companies would produce the books, and private
transportation companies would handle the distribution of textbooks
from Kinshasa to the sub-regions, at which poiLnt the religious groups
or Government regional offices would assure transportation to their
respective  schools.   Overseas  traiLning of  two  Zairians  in textbook
production (twelve months), distribution (nine months) and evaluation
(six months) is included in the prcject as are six man-months of spe-
cialists' services in the same areas to assist in the implementation
and  evaluation  of  the  textbook  component.    The  schools  to  receive
textbooks and the plan for book distribution would be subject to the
approval of the Association (Section 3.06 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
51.          The Government has agreed that beginning with the 1984/85
school year, enrollment fees would be retained at the school level for
the use of the schools (para. 30) (Section 3.05(a) of the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).   The project would test a cost recovery pro-
gram in the schools which participate in the pilot textbook distribu-
tion component, using a portion of these enrollment fees.   Therefore,
the Government would instruct those schooLs to use the enrollment fees
as a charge for the use of the books, to be applied toward their
replacement every three years (Section 3.05 (b) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).



- 21 -
Education Management and Administration
52.         DEPS Management.  Ir order to assist DEPS in improving its
administrative and budgetary practices and to strengthen coordination
among divisions and with other ministries, the project would provide
DEPS with the means to conduct an in-depth analysis of its administra-
tive and financial structu-res and procedures at the national, regional
and local levels. The analysis would assist DEPS to (a) clarify inter-
nal and external links;  (b) establish improved administrative struc-
tures, particularly with regard to other ministries involved in the
education sector (primarily FirLance and Plan) and with the religious
groups which administer the majority of schools; (c) strengthen inter-
nal financial and budgetary procedures for better programming and moni-
toring of expenditures in accordance with sector objectives; (d) build
up closer communication and collaboration among the national, regional
and local levels; and (e) introduce progressively the computerization
of personnel and student records.   The results of this analysis would
form the basis for plans for an administrative and physical reorgani-
zation of DEPS. The Government would furnish to the Association within
18 months from the date of Credit signing a proposed plan for modifi-
cation of the structures and procedures of DEPS and, within 24 months
of Credit signing, a plan for the physical layout of DEPS' offices
designed to improve its (effic:Lency, control and communications and
exchange views on these plans (Section 3.07 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
53.         Funding would be provided in the project for specialists in
management and administration (36 man-months) and in budgeting and
accounting (36 man-montns) and for 16 man-months of short term special-
ists in education managemernt and administration, as well as in-country
seminars for 144 key education ministry staff serving in the capital
and  the  regions.    Overseas  fe!llowships  would  be  supplied  for  ten
Zairians  in the areas of administration,  coordination of pedagogical
programs, finance and budgeting., accounting, personnel management and
physical planning/procurement for a total of 90 months.   To improve
communications and the availability of information necessary for the
planning and management of the education system, the project would also
include funds for the purchase, installation, staff training and main-
tenance of radio equipment for DEPS in Kinshasa and at about 60 centers
in the nine regions of the country.
54.        Training of Principals/Inspectors.   The Government's policy
to decentralize public admiinistration (para. 10) would be supported
through the training of local school administrators and principals to
improve their knowledge of management and administration practices and
better define their roles in the system.   A training program would be
established for some 2,400 primary and secondary school principals and
inspectors in school adminiStrat:lon, management, budgeting and account-
ing.   The training program, to be developed and implemented by DEPS's



- 22 -
School Inspection Division, would be assisted by an education manage--
ment specialist (36 man-months), shlort term specialists for the prepar-
ation and evaluation of training modules (E6 man-months), and seven
additional local staff.  Progress in submnitting reports and statistical
forms and  in school management improvement would be evaluated yearly
during the project period and additionaL  training needs would also be
identified.   Equipment, material and the in-country transportation and
subsistence  costs for the training of 800 Zairians annually would be
financed under the project.
55.         Transportation is a serious problem for Zaire's 860 primary
and 350 secondary school inspectors, many of whom have to travel great
distances under difficult conditions for monitoring and training at the
school level.   To facilitate  their  day-to-day  work  and  training  of
principals and administrators described in paragraph 54, the project
would finance a pilot effort to assist about 190 school inspectors to
acquire their own means of transportation.  A vehicle credit fund would
be established for the purchase of appropriate means of transportation
- motorbikes or bicycles depending on thie transportation infrastructure
of  the  inspectors' regions.    Repayment would  be  through  automatic
deductions  from salary which take into account a reasonable repayment
schedule and the generation of sufficiernt funds to purchase additional
vehicles.  The organization and management of the vehicle credit fund
would be subject to the agreement of the Association (Section 3.08 of
the draft Develpment Credit Agreement).
56.         Data Processing Services.  The project would assist DEPS in
improving its records of personnel and financial operations through the
creation of a data processing  capacity.   The project would fund pur-
chase of data processing equipment, programs, material, rehabilitation
of existing office space, specialists in computer services (36 man-
months) and computer programming (24 man-months) as well as short term
specialists  in  training  and  installation  (total  of  11 man-months),
overseas training for two Zairians (totcl of 18 man-months) in inform-
ation management, and, on a declining basis, annual equipment mainte-
nance.   Two  mini-computers  would  be  placed  in  regional  offices  to
assess  the feasibility  of their use.   DEPS's present data processing
division would become a separate init to enable it to render services
to all the divisions of DEPS.  Careful zonsideration would be given to
the integration of DEPS's data processing system with those in other
Government ministries, especially with r egard to the processing of the
payroll for teachers' salaries.
Cost Estimates
57.        The total cost of the ptoject, net of duties and taxes (from
which  the project would be exempt), is estimated  at US$10.7 million
with a foreign exchange component of US$9.0 million (85 percent). The
project includes about 24.5 man years of long term technical assist-
ance, 12.5 man years of short term specialists (of which about half



- 23 -
Zairian), overseas training for 24 Zairians totalling 14 man years, and
in-country training for about 2,800 Zairians.   Costs  for in-country
seminars vary between US$155 and US$450 per participant week depending
on location and content. The base costs have been estimated at January
1984 prices.   Physical contingencies of 5 percent have been included
for seminars, material and computer maintenance.   Price contingencies
have been calculated on the basis of projected annual rates of infla-
tion of 3.5 percent in 1984, 8.0 percent in 1985 and 9.0 percent for
1986 and 1987.  To compensate for domestic inflation, local costs have
been calculated in US dollars under the assumption that the progessive
devaluation of the Zaire currency would compensate for differential
increases in local prices.
Financing
58.          The proposed IDA Credit of $9.0 million equivalent would
finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange component representing 85
percent of total project costs net of taxes. The Government would fin-
ance all local costs ($1.7 million equivalent).
Project Implementation Unit:
59.         The project would be implemented by the existing PIU, which
operates in a manner similar to the other DEPS divisions, and reports
to the Minister through the Secretary General. The PIU would be staf-
fed by a Zairian Director, accountant and procurement officer and would
be assisted by an expert in the capacity of advisor.  The Director, a
well qualified Zairian with extensive experience under the First and
Second Education Projects and in preparing this project, is acceptable
to the Association.   The staffing and terms of reference of the PIU
would be satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).  The PIU advisor would be the chief of
the team of long-term experts assigned to the various DEPS divisions
and would assist the PIU Director in coordinating project activities.
The PIU would liaise with the Association on project matters and carry
ouit various administrative tasks under the proposed project. It would
be responsible for the coordination and preparation of the annual work
program, budget and evaluation of project components; the employment of
consultants; the procurement of equipment and material; and coordina-
tion of training programs.  The work programs would be submitted to the
Association for its approval by November 1 of each year and an evalua-
tion of the previous year"s operations by March 31 of each year (Sec-
tion 3.09 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  All project
funds would be administered by the PIU which would establish accounting
and reporting procedures acceptable to the Association (para. 64). The
PIU would also submit to t:he Association for its approval the lists of
candidates for training abroad and the proposed programs for seminars
and other training in Zaire and abroad (Section 3.09 (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



-- 24 -
60.        Project Fund and Special Account.  The nature of the project
activities, characterized by large local cost components with numerous
small, separate expenditures (local seminars for 2,800 education sector
staff, field activities) will require the mobilization of funds and
purchase of materials well in advance of execution of the activities.
Procedures for committing budgeted funds are lengthy and cumbersome and
could delay project activities. In order to ensure release of budgeted
funds on a timely basis, the Government would establish a revolving
Project Fund  in the amount  of US$100,000 equivalent  to finance all
local expenditures.   In order tc take  into  account  the  pattern  of
expenditures   in  the  early  implementation  period,  the  level  of
US$100,000 would be reached in phases.   The account would be opened
with an initial deposit equivalent to US$20,000; by April 1, 1985 an
additional amount equivalent to US$50,000 would be deposited and by
July 1, 1985 an additional amount equivalent to US$30,000 would be
deposited (Section 3.01 (e) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Various items representing direct and indirect: foreign exchange expen-
ditures would also be purchased periodically in small quantities.
Since the scarcity of foreign exchange would preclude Government pre-
financing, an IDA Special Account is recommended to ensure a steady
supply  of  these  items.    The  Special  Account,  in  the  amount  of
US$50,000, would finance expenditures for equipment, supplies, materi-
als (including materials for textbooks and statistical forms); bicy-
cles, motorcycles and vehicles; training outside Zaire; audits; and
fuel and spare parts for vehicles.   The Project Fund would be replen-
ished on a quarterly basis and the Special Account would be replenished
on the basis of documentary evidence to be provided by the PIU.   As
special conditions of Credit Effectiveness, the Project Fund would be
established with an initial deposit of US$20,000 equivalent and the
Special Account would be opened (Sections 5.01 (b) and (a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Project Coordinating Committee.  In order to strengthen coor-
dination betwen DEPS and the Ministries of Finance and Plan (para. 34),
a Coordinating Committee would be established to review and approve the
work program and budgets for the proposed project; advise the PIU on
the preparation of evaluation reports; and exchange views on matters of
common interest, particularly the recurrent and investment budgets.
The Committee, which would meet on a quarterly basis, would be chaired
by the DEPS Minister or his appointee, and include one representative
each from the Ministries of Finance, Plan and Public Administration;
the DEPS' secretary general; financial and educational advisors and the
PIU Director. Establishment of the Committee would be a special condi-
tion of Credit Effectiveness (Section 5.01 (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Procurement
62.        Experts would be employed on terms and conditions satisfact-
ory to the Association in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for Use



- 25 -
of Consultants (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).   The  terms  of reference  and  the  profiles  of  the  long-term
experts have been prepared and are acceptable to the Association.  It
is expected that a contract for the services of the long-term experts
would be awarded to one consulting firm in order to ensure a coordina-
ted approach for the various project components.   Terms of reference
and qualifications for short terra specialists would be subject to prior
review and approval of the Association.   The Association would review
lists of candidates and their qualifications for all those being
trained outside Zaire as well as proposed programs and institutions for
seminars and training activLties outside and in Zaire (Section 3.09 (b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  Contracts for rehabilita-
tion work, equipment, furniturea, vehicles, materials/supplies, book
production and distribution would be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for
procurement except as follows: (a) the contract for the rehabilitation
of the data processing office which is not expected to attract foreign
firms due to its small size (estimated total US$135,000 including
contingencies); (b) furniture and equipment contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each (estimated total of US$155,000 including
contingencies); (c) contracts for the printing and transportation of
textbooks  and  statistical  forms  (estimated  total  of  US$535,000
including contingencies); (d) contracts for materials/supplies costing
more than US$10,000 but less than US$50,000 equivalent each (estimated
total of US$365,000   including contingencies); and (e) contracts for
materials/supplies   costing   less   than  US$10,000   equivalent   each
(estimated total of US$150,000 including contingencies). Contracts for
(a), (b), (c) and (d) would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally.   Contracts for item (e) would be procured
by inviting quotations from at least three reliable independent
suppliers with award to the lowest evaluated bidder and post review of
the award by the Association.  Items will be grouped together to the
extent  practicable  to  encourage  competition  and  to  permit  bulk
procurement.    When  ICB  procedures  are  used  to  procure  furniture,
equipment and vehicles, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a
margin of preference of 15 percent or the existing applicable rate of
import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing
foreign  suppliers.   A  table  iLndicating  the  amount  and  procurement
method for items financed tnder the project is attached as Annex V.
Disbursement
63.        The proceeds of the ]DA Credit would be disbursed over three
and a half years as follows:   L00 percent of foreign expenditures for
training outside of Zaire (US$700,000); consultants' and experts'
services  (US$4.32  million)  and  audits  (US$40,000);  100  percent  of
foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures of imported
items purchased locally for rehabilitation of office space (US$80,000)
equipment, supplies and materials (US$1.33 million), materials for
printing and distribution of textbooks (US$150,000), bicycles, motor-



- 26 -
cycles and outboard motors (US$140,000) and all other vehicles
(US$260,000); 80 percent of total expendlitures for fuel, lubricants and
spare parts for vehicles (US$60,000); and 80 percent of expenditures in
local currency for imported materials purchased locally for training
within Zaire  (US$310,000).   US$50,000 would be used  for an initial
deposit in the Special Account and US$473,000 to reimburse the advance
from the PPF.   Unallocated funds tota:L US$1.0 million.   In order to
gradually introduce into the DEPS budget recurrent expenditures ini-
tially financed by the project, expenditures for materials and printing
of statistical forms would be financed on a declining basis (US$90,000
for which 70 percent would be financed until US$25,000 has been dis-
bursed, 50 percent would be financed until a further US$50,000 has been
disbursed and 20 percent would be financed thereafter); this would
result in Government financing about US$50,000 of foreign exchange
expenditures over the period of project implementation.  All disburse-
ments would be fully documented except for disbursements for materials,
local textbook printing and distribution and ifuel, lubricants and spare
parts which would be made against statements of expenditure. All docu-
mentation would be retained at the PIU for review by Bank supervision
missions and the auditors.   The disbursement: schedule is based on a
three and one half year disbursement profile compared to country dis-
bursement profiles averaging eight years for investment projects and
five years  for technical assistance  projects.   Due to the advanced
stage of preparation of the proposed project and the monitoring/review
procedures being established, the three and one half year disbursement
profile is considered adequate (Annex II).  The project would be com-
pleted by September 30, 1987, with a closing eLate of March 31, 1988.
Reporting, Auditing and Evaluation
64.         The PIU would maintain records adequate to monitor project
implementation and would submit progress reports quarterly in a form
acceptable to the Association (Section 3.04(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).  The PIU would prepare by March 31 of each year an
evaluation of the prior year's operaltions which would be jointly
reviewed by Government and the Association during a formal review of
project implementation (Section 3.09 (a) of the draft Development Cre-
dit Agreement).   The PIU would mLintain accounts satisfactory to the
Association for all expenditures  Lncurred undler the project.   Govern-
ment's Project Fund   and the Association's Special Account would be
reviewed  and certified  on a monthly basis by the Finance Inspector
representing the Ministry of Finance in DEPS.  An interim audit of the
two accounts would be carried out by the Min-Lstry of Finance and sub-
mitted to the Association following sixi months operation of the ac-
counts to review the procedures, operation and application of generally
accepted accounting procedures (Section 4.02 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).   Subsequently, annual audits of the Project Fund,
the Special Account and other project accounts would be carried out by
an independent auditor and submitted t:o the Association within six
months following the end of Government's fiscal year (Section 4.01 (c)



- 27 -
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  Not later than six months
after the Credit Closing Date, the PIU would provide to the Association
a completion report evalualing the results of the project, performance
of Government and of the Association, and lessons learned (Section
3.04(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
65.          The major benefit of the project would be to provide DEPS
with the basic statistics and data processing capacity, improved mana-
gement and budgetary procedures, and trained manpower with which to
improve  education  sector  planning,  management  and  administration.
Decisions on education strategies and policies could then be taken
based on more reliable information, including data on pedagogical and
financial options, and could be implemented more effectively. The pro-
ject would provide DEPS with the means and trained staff required for
these purposes.   Once a more accurate idea of the number of viable
schools is obtained,  the Government would be able to take decisions
which would eliminate unnecessary expenditures on teacher salaries.
Improved coordination with the Ministries of Finance and Plan should
result in better preparation and execution of the recurrent budget and
investment program for the sector.  A DEPS which can prepare and exe-
cute investment projects more effectively should be able to attract the
higher levels of external assistance needed to produce the quantity and
quality of trained manpower needed in Zaire.   The training of school
principals and inspectors should result in better school management at
the local level.   The pilot projects in school textbooks,  technical
education, and transportation of school inspectors, if successful,
could  be  replicated  and  thus  extend  the  improvement  of  education
quality to the rest of the system.
66.         The two main risks for the project are DEPS's capacity to
execute the project and Government's political will to change DEPS's
mode of operations. Concerning project execution, particular attention
was focussed on project preparation and on the involvement of PIU and
DEPS technical directors who would execute the project.  The assistance
of technical experts, the extensive training program for Zairian staff
at all levels and the introduction of management tools such as work
programs and the joint annual review of project implementation contri-
bute to the reduction of risks.   The Government's commitment to the
project thus far has been demonstrated by its support of the objectives
and content of the project in spite of several changes at the minister-
ial level.  In view of Zaire's difficult financial situation, and the
social pressure for better education, the Government is aware that
major improvements in the efficiency of sector management and in the
quality of education are urgently required.
67.         A third risk is related to possible respondent bias which
could affect the reliability of data to be obtained under the planning
and statistics component. In order to minimize this risk, the accuracy



- 28 -
of data will be verified by school inspectors. The Government has also
introduced fines at the school level which would be applied in case of
failure to provide correct data or willful non-compliance.
Project Results
68.           At the end of the three and-one-half year implementation
period, it is expected that the project will have produced, inter alia,
the following results: (a) an annual report of education statistics for
about 90 percent of Zaire's primary and secondary schools; (b) a school
map in two areas of the country and the preparation of a school mapping
methodology which could be replicated in other parts of Zaire; (c) ini-
tiation of the reorganization of DEPS including improved procedures for
preparing and executing the recurrent and investment budgets; (d)
achievement of a data management capability covering about 90 percent
of Zaire's primary and secondary school teac'hers individually and by
school; (e) 2,400 school principals and inspectors trained in school
budgeting, accounting and management; (f) 40 technical teachers trained
in programs adapted to employer needs; and (g) results of a pilot pro-
ject which have tested at the secondary level in two regions of the
country the use of the private sector in the distribution and financing
of textbooks using cost recovery methods.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Zaire and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
70.        Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III
of Annex III.   Special Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) establishment of the project Coordinating Committee (para. 61), (b)
establishment of the Project Fund with an initial deposit of US$20,000
equivalent (para. 60); and (c) opening of the IDA Special Account
(para. 60).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 29 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
August 15, 1984



- 30 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
v A B L E  3A
ZAIRL                     - SOCIAL INDECATORS DATA SliEET
ZAIRE                                     RLrLRLNCE GROUPS (E;LIJUELD AVEAGULS) la
AiOSr                        (MOST RELENT  SIENAl) /b
RECENT  Ib           LOW INCOME                HIDDLE INCUlLE
1960/Ž.      1970--  ESTIIMATE-        AFRICA S. OF SAhIARA       AFLICA S. OF SA.HARA
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM4)
TOTAL                                 2345.4        2345.4       2345.4
AGRICULTURAL                            147.7        151.2        155.'.
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        80.4        130.0        210.0                254.6                       1147.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KIL3GRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          82.0         117.0        107.0                 79.8                        724.2
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,ŽIO-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   17756.0         21638.0       29777.0
URBAN POPULATION (Y OF TOTAL)            15.7         21.6         35.8                 19.5                         28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                   54.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    169.L
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2140
PUPULAIION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             7.6          9.2         12.3                 29.5                         56.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               120.2         143.1        186.J                 94.1                        131.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (U)
0-14 YRS                             44.1         44.3          44.8                 45.0                         45.9
15-64 YRS                             52.9          52.9         52.5                 52.1                         51.2
65 AND ABOVE                           3.0           2.8          2.8                  2.9                          2.8
POPULATION GROUTH RATE (Y.)
rOTAL                                  2.2           2.0          2.9                  2.8                          2.8
URBAN                                    *-          5.2          7.5                  6.2                          5.3
CRUDE BIRTli RATE (PER TIIOUS)           48.0         47.8         46.3                 47.9                         47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            24.3          20.8         16.3                 19.2                         15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.0          3.0          3.1                  3.2                          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          101.0         101.U         87.0                 87.6                         95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (. OF REQUIREMENTS)          98.0         101.0         94.0                 88.0                         97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              36.0         37.0          33.0                 51.2                         56.0
OF AlICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            13.0          13.0         10.0/c               18.1                         17.2
ChILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              32.7         27.5         21.4                 25.7                         23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            40.0         43.9         49.8                 47.4                         51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          150.0         132.0        110.1                126.5                        117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..         11.0         16.0/d               24.7                         25.4
URBAN                                   ..          33.0         43.07W               56.8                         70.5
RURAL                                    ..          4.0          5.0/d               18.3                         12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Y. OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          5.0         22.0/e               28.1
URBAN                                   ..           5.0         65.07W               65.7
RURAL                                    ..          5.0          6.07W               21.9
POPULArION PER PHYSICIAN             79620.U      30140.0       14780.0              27420.6                      12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               3510.0        2290.0       1920.0               3456.2                       2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                230.0         320.0        350.0/f             1183.2                       1075.4
URBAN                                 60.0         100.0        150.0/f              380.6                        402,3
RURAL                                770.0        1070.0       2670.07?             3177.5                       3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF AOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    .           6.1 
RURAL                                    ..           ..          6.0
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Y. OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..            ..
RURAL                                                                                                                      _



-31 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E  3A
ZAIRE                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Ia
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT   b           LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOM4E
ESTIMATE-        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED  NiROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMIARY:   TOTAL                     60.0         88.0         90.0/f               63.9                        97.2
MIALE                     8S.0        110.0        104.0/f               73.6                       103.1
FEMALE                    32.0         66.0         75.07f               51.6                        88.5
SECONDARY: FOTAL                       3.0          9.0         23.0/f               12.5                        17.2
MALE                       4.0         13.0         33.07f               16.7                        23.5
FEM.ALE                    1.0          4.0         13.0/f                8.1                        14.2
VOCATIONAL (7 OF SECONDARY)             26.5          9.6         10.0/c                7.3                         5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               40.0         43.0         30.0                 46.4                        42.9
SECONDARY                             20.0         20.0         21.0                 25.1                        23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 31.3/E,      13.0         54.5                 36.5                        37.1
CONS UMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              2.5          3.0          3.6/h                3.3                        18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              ..          2.9          5.2                 45.3                        97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..          0.3          0.3                  2.2                        18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 1.2          9.2          1.6                  4.7                        18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          0.1          0.1          0.1/h                1.U                         0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TOUS)             8216.0       9465.0      12177.0
FEMIALE (PERCENT)                     46.4         44.5         42.5                 34.5                        36.1
AURICULYURE (PERCENT)                 83.0         79.0         75.0                 76.9                        56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     9.0         11,0         13.0                  9.8                        17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 46.3         43,7         40.9                 40.9                        37.0
MALE                                  51.9         49.8         47.9                 53.0                        47.1
FEMALE                                41.2         38.0         34.2                 28.9                        27.0
ECONOM1IC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1          1.2                  1.2                         1.3
INCOfE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED NY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
HI]GHEST 20%. OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ......
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                165.9                       534.2
RURAL                                   ..           ..         80.O/e               87.4                       255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (LS$ PER CAPITA)
LRBAN                                   ..           ..         76.0/e              1OU.8                       491.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..         4..,72               64.6                       188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                 39.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..         80.0/e               69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted,  Data for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; /g 1962; /h 1974.
May 1983



-32 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
tfft~~~-O.  M  1~~~ Ill lb_  8-1  7bOnO--OttO  Ot  OCIaL.t.....POt
Noossc   nlthoohofrOahasoe  Or   .Oocaotoftaa  W   nottOlaOosaoneOaet    thacoti    eotrslaette,  Ooeroclosia'o  benoted  oset ttsoeetoosbs  intectattoaehOy~~~ll   1   -   ~h  71.billl il   I
cotott   eaaeoftetat0    oaocrddO    oora....saeh                                            ot  tnoO    ooeO  ccrclo  h   aa.Oaasete    oehees
desctal  oresa   eoct.OtonocO    o  cha rateritateresa   Iao   ofoecohot-,ccant-oe
19e)0ooo    no.      .ttcttccn   o,or   ht  O 9caotrrnt2otcyancaohas    ohcnaaeao    roao                                                                 -aoteoacp8apett
eotl eon c-aha   eet  o           -ag   kncoh- Sc?d norors   tth     .oea  'faac ottNnoa      onhOa    or-                           hs,btac   fshoeastoo aa
tOtOncae). rt,tO  co tecc  aocyroa  ho  otege   st trreton   5 cftd  roceeor   eoe 0atoanloctaotOttehanroo  acs  sjcaf  o  et  toetee   O
&croo ha   eafrtat                rr     hnaco    ora                 ottesn   b    notoocescocoteasaecoecfOs   o   O   o   ntr,Tsso   ae
osoeteeahteehao   arsaft  otoatcadoocc.ooht.   fhcaeseteore   nly efotcoOtacotoheotoefrnoodoe    rtehoearrtheoontyeA
Ostcteore ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        -i..           ll.l= -                  ..iy-f,
VEAO    tooY o   eq.ba.bIQ                                                                                PoEyOooAn    oFt -.ta-1        royoeotdade by   n bYaste  of pbytttat .s
0970 ood 0980 dots."I                                                                        nec"   -   "  -~ tao   e   ccso   osr-  ooteo  dsts   yoje    foseoe
fartoloas t    Os osse  at toacr.tctl-ss  oeo -cspoohOIt P.r ~0 Otatoft_ saese                              .eat   tdet    oI    ooaestinorse,                              P-P... orosab
tOtS, toO,- 1980 o    Ita.ttl to  o    ss  ttte      o   - ttt  sod cacao  - Pptltto    feri
osOtoloted  by moss roodece Ott soonac Os World~ haatrc    I99-  besot) 170    l             res00  rroocotc              na -aaa  -Oct  foelsrt    sssol   tfs
1901,  971, sot oott acne.                                                 hy .0  teoso  core t-cr1~.sacso.Ih -sfb- lscst  rcstdsrislelytsed
ulb  I-          R.,i.  f  lb-   l"  il.i       ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ar   rtoe  nctodh   trl   aytas,Oesos,letdetsott  h
OntOs  lOdrOtplOtt000 10010- trcel   Yren   co2osror   oorotoethtcnct   c   eosettScrrdbINtrtaetanhe.ts
prtoaraosrklooslssd  Itttte , oso. nOeco  haoa    d   rohda,ccosoaccoe                                                  oo     aIt     o.   ttnofr  ertaseeoa   o   o
and   errttnlalararttt  ontOlgrao  t  roo  eorrcten   pe  copts    000 oe slisacd   ong  cfobeoe. etoOttOse   Pc  sOsOaOtslpersss
date,    l        e,.,lt,-.                                                                          t-1 hsOtO   Oode   y  h  nss,o  teds.b
bOat F     Pcleelo   ....eo  of- rotel) yot   to ootao  tt' stoo  t-1aO'-Ooo;
asrg  oeere  . 1060, 11975,- ed198 -bdoes i        t.     -   .toctega 0000E orI~                                             ..as .o . (olsn  ns   oa btld)    steal. oa.d sod ra
t'raaea   Ftjo -o.e                                                                               - Eocsbbdonheoofesta f-sttdss  lo  tt                              -ioojqists
ronOse   soe  2000-Ioorea-d foaaott  nlrto    atOsc   n  0 ttaoo.te  oi- ssls -b                                  0b -scsao  loder -ho y    stb   otdd
resco    Prtjo elo  pa reeasr  foronceal 0?  aras  osre et t  fhrr       doseadeoolso o  escaospacitot -         -  ottl  Ia...n. od raalfsarsga oU ba
oosnsan .o  ostelat  end t_ eloyend   t,aoocco   oaoas                                         o    s1oro,  o   otesl dellOsabss-ao-celo.
tesfattaro  nocalettan-lnaosco lohoco  ioiotsf to, cherootP"=no ga.eth
acro  tetotr  rt  ce71  onda  00W theq t..t. c... , eIsOs  ensoserOs
ttratoaa -sOneas Arn    Thalso         -as    only atta              1-d ayoa                 dso   sclereht
Osolo  of ob  toosOoathdta   ah   n    hesrtaoaec                                                        rer  Otadaee    o   I           - ecs AsoeO  te Io pbhaat Itla; fee
...eh\OIIoitooaplalc.,c len?.                                                                     cootroa-ot  onoao -aaooeolsn   soy eets'd 100pscsc
Seneh50sr  taoa  o   s9      oabd-ZOsya   hottfoaf'nt   ocppt  are..elt  or Ift S.dthe  tffttl. socao 
ratd ,esD- r U os01   srahd                                                                            hoa-dondery                                     P...-tao,sl.sdfsl   -astosda   to;  see
Oca    re   0960, tO  ll r   d 0 if  dat                                                          0001, I.  oso- l  nO- 10,  f  17 peers    , of   All otyr,,acso   co fte      -dor
for sn.11   We. at .-l sly  tady- las,ooasoahnofo   tgtoc7ora  lad                                        .enseshay saoltdeo
otlyt0080  0070and   901  esa.                                      ocatost?erorolotn  0-stoooo o:oaosdoeot y.,   - ostotlstfatoe
84 yaes , ot rctod  tO  orre  nd   osolas   crnotaot n  or-ysr                            lyora  deososerrt Ltf stosoa               stotoe
torotasoon; tOil, 0970, and  1991 dana.                                 Payl I- tcaohrr ratio - prlsary, cad seooodetf-foeslIll  eh-dsnts sosolll      d Os
poaoooccshoo2eore-osaAna   0rettsesf   ntlsoloesrrre -aatettttstn--beOostff  sar-rsooscr
yttyooeto   oolfOt.00002   n  .97 -91,                                                            foapofans lnstt
O,dds  f0c   Oaoe Ic c issed-              e t  100- 0 Ot_Os  ar  -ocanoof  cd
Grads isos   Ot 11 pr  bbosd      oaa  dtc   s   htadr    .td-ya                                       sesne hats Soon etroea-         t coOseoasU. - Psssnos  05`  tases-b          ast
onpaetOr;  901  190,  ot 091   ate                                                           OtS OOf 0$  ess  haseigt posos;-eoI---                 obIosos   hsrsaae
Crss    --adaotc   Oto     .ora0  naohat _o  _a_att       ,,ea   toll b-rot On                     so?                     h   y.,  bldi&db                 .1.d1-j     b.,
OitdstFttpbo05ttrtrtcd   t atrrtrroeccoctsnn   to-ettatc                           010  frstcos  astthcath coahsto,t- ...tps.of.eatesa  to rdt
tooo ty  aie;osat    co-tt,aoaaroco  00cool  075  ad                                 r,eaaoosogeerl  olo   pr  hooscdofpyasiec0  et9ds   s
lOOt.                                                                                            llrstoedoeeoasrtor  rotoC.res-odIn peso e-tre  osgh...sho   of eadto
FasoloPtsnnso-tootnocscanno  (roscdl             Ya.a   ecIocsoonn                               t.  tei  errte   ost  -o eso  er   ayntb   o.ssl  m ssa
of ertt-rssto  talse   catr st ptos  orastor-  ttI    yponlao,nceoslee_aorl6
ocatra       ..s    ....   ....                                                                      On.toolocstro I'll         s   erlslr -A. 1~I I r_  soscec  far  brodcs -       e
raoeltlenlna-eeoe'ceetor  fsoeoedaotn(-oace-.a0otsco  attensrOpostc  rrnrooesoptposetoneeolodesrltorsedroecttsc
reeooofohld-   rnset- oa                                                                                                    b~711'11..               1 oto  lhotcor-onnlOcroocnnooOson   Oooo   hao0rtet
.I.,.Z.     b,.  _i bd lyetooy..                                                              tet ac-bcrtoc  (n  noesaI.o,tsn       Oo-sshesa6
ranttosOtt to 11t     . too                                                                                 -- co t ta.o  'dolly  0rnr   Onsoes  neoeetta ,bl      d9eftned s9 s rotd  toa
Inoe  _OFrd roccco    to.   Cact   b- tt<-no    cOoo 001  _&lctt  000C    risanotf. Lto  feoetto                                                                iOcn tso.  I    seede
anrolOeOaoco   t  dlw       Iocsadora             rconorcldtecoso-oOsoaly    oe   pso  as.,.shICoon tts-ssese
feed on  Is or  s loade  onso ioco.  lonodO 0-t toIIeo pocsr  grd  (..Cte, torno l tedatoetrhta   eede      ae                                            h   ahso
ot:anoess ansos  cO. I.s,     0  0crer     Cdl.ed Iottcnntet   t.rttsael   rtogao   or  t.t.1d-tt. e.d isslans   to dtos te isees
tafftcesdtsa  sacoettooso).  oWoeoeOoo rrooaotloootrtahcoonnoyl-                           ocltootYsI.-    "      -pb .-                                        I
Oaeetnnnetctnolatenett orrocoer 000cc ottiOts;ll. 2  ...-.. t.O  oct, 1980.1    "   f`t~'                                                  it
dots.                                                                    ladIW 700~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t10"  d18    ..    hb.-b.d-r
re  ldas  ogootcloe l         oenso  ne teclto s-O  -  opsd  too                                   loeoUVor rocc I,     thoots - -        ttI $do,   losetr    paott , treladlAor
energreotealere  af ne  tord  sytanra   cohlebl   OrootFy psa cela  te-fo                       -t  a  o irseh _e bo_stlotghoeio_1odns  sa,eoo
sos ois   mo   stlccreOtahontrrcr        Ya tttrstr, Ott  oslf. ts                                  roto    sp  arro    tecllto    oo000,190sdIS   o
eg   o   e     ercoico   oostdc,ttolarn   Oprco0 cet                                                    roa  0 eOE  IM S71rat,      .btdrs   nenn     t.etsot   aeaec
ctol   baesLt les  19hl 0t- tOl-ect  Od-dea.                                                                ad  tetrdoeo,eset  act...      Id e  SW eecst  Ic.. te          -d L bortre  0980, 
ye r-iOctl   f   otOtro   eo  o)-rctnooto    frrao                                                      thOC end 098.0 deec..   4   "                                                  t
-Yoaoet50ocao   o~t   reo    r  da   oa2  tao  farst  n                                            rcenaeso  atl  wetsItad fesle  popa-stin sPel  sg-stespoaeOralp
pros  raonaoo  ofacrI  tottrnO   eoio   cnen 0ts                                                        01 , ;97ndb b lof.t de. i1          s   r  hsda   ot    stapstes
etadore ac  oro  cOt tot  of~5  cas o  osal  oteonand05fooe                               rf lotot  go a o eo-rctettstepopl'aan  sa910$ .sst..be
ofontselteoteona   ecootota  roncifartd,coo -tcdt  -acanccc                              feetstat    toenslsloate
dote.                                                                    Onodot PltfhboJOlOt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.   r.P"Fp:
rcantrtss taco  drocoer foon loft raslot; ba:, tOOl end  0881 hota.        hsaascsL-ds.            hl                          I.d.,Ild "llh    .-
8tWltO          LP10087CO0- idW hO d0-90080                                                                                        h    .
foantre of peerle (nest, acten, sod roosll pOet ceosncobletoosoaeaoofo oI'llt n et s.
cecrsopl I1 th ooo    osafe    oosootsoorotoecdto                                                     etaas  eloIn    oorr-ooeloa  te-teastt)- sos  odo-o 
actoecsaseedooe   ort 0  ohtc Ores pr- oo    nsoe     pooe   n                                           rolseOstat   nwsln                       ststtido.ccg   oecpt
hose   On1,d   ).o1nal      -. ens   , sa   ....rct  ac-   coly - cs-  oh   raor   tsd(oa      rtt    fpylsbotrooaetre    h   o    551
es-t-noofah-haosstctddr-at  bastpntiysn-trnothrnott-tan
Opraseb sodeasn  Ilsoeo  Onoetofoolroo       ra    ce    o



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ZAIRE ECDNCMIC INDICATORS
OL  ACCONS
Amount          Share of GDP at
(million US$ at    Market Prices (%)           Annual Growth Rates (%)
current prices     (at current prices)       (at constant 1970 prices)
1981                 1981              1979       1980        1981
Gross Domestic Product 1/      53831.9                100.0               0.3        2.5        2.4
(GDP Coamercialized)          (4222,.3)               (78.4)             (0.2)      (2.4)      (2.4)
Agriculture                  1722.2                  32.0               3.1        2.8        2.7
Industry                     1269n5                  23.6              -6.1        4.4        4.8
Services                     2183.7                  38.7               4.6        0.1        0.4
Consumption                    4312.0 2/               80.0               4.3       -0.2        6.1
Gross Investment               1410.3 7/               26.2              56.8       81.8      -35.2
Exports of G                   1575.4                  29.3             -21.0       23.8      -44.6
Imports of aNFS                1913.8                  35.5              21.8       95.8      -46.0
Gross National Savings          985.8                  18.3              62.8      -19.6      128.7
PUBLIC FINANE (Central Government)
(million Z)                              % of GDP
A c t u a 1                          (at market prices)
1980         1981         1982         1980       1981        1982 P
Current revenues               3738.6       4858.8        6259.1         21.7       20.6       19.5
Current expenditures           3948.5       5832.1        8448.1         22.9       24.7       26.3
Current deficit                -209.9       -973.3      -2189.0          -1.2       -4.1       -6.8
Capital expenditures            246.4        744.9        1084.9          1.4        3.2        3.4
Overall deficit                -456.3      --1718.2     -3273.9          -2.6       -7.3      -10.2
MDNEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1980       1981       1982
(million Z outstanding end period)
MDney and Quasi Mm.ney                                                 3367.3     4644.9    8015.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                           2329.4     3783.6    7057.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                          1014.3    1342.4    1971.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Mney and Quasi Money (as % of GDP - market prices)                       19.6       19.7       25.0
Consumer Price Index (1975 = 100)                                      1339.0    1813.1    2487.9
Anmual percentage changes in:                                          46.7       35.4       37.2
Consumer Price Index                                                     13.0       62.4       86.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                             37.1       32.3       46.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector
NOTE: All conversions to dbllars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
1/ Zairina national accounts have numerous shortcomings and should be
interpreted with caution.
2/ At market prices; canponents are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to the
emlusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
3/ Estimate.
4/ Based on national accounts data. Balance of payments estimates given in
page 2 are more reliable.



- 34 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ZAIRE - EC(XRIC INDICAT'ORS
BALANCE OF PAYME1S (Mill US$)          1979        1980        1981        1982
Exports of goods and services         1926.3      2185.2      1632.0      1537.9
of which: Merchandilse F.O.B.      (1834.6)    (2038.1)    (1499.9)    (1454.0)
ITmports of goods ani services        2056.9      2523.6      2300.6      2085.5
of which:  Merchandiise F.O.B.     (1213.2)    (1472.0)    (1290.0)    (1128.3)
Private transfers (net)                -63.3       -79.4        -3.5       -15.5
Current Account Balance               -193.9      -417.E      -672.1     -563.1
Official grants (net)                  226.1       266.8       247.6       187.7
Public capital (net)                  -115.0       -22.1      -168.6      -156.8
Private capital (net) and errors and
omissions                           -173.1       -82.0      -147.4      -128.1
SDR Allocation                          20.7        20.P        18.9         -
Other FinanciLng                       267.5       282.4       603.4       624.8
Change in net interneattonal reserves
(- = increase)                       -32.3      -48.1        113.2        35.5
EXCHANCE RATES:                       (Z/US$)    (US$S/Z)    (S[R/Z)
August 24, 1979-February 22, 1980        2.05        0.49        0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1981          3.05        0.13        0.2625
June 19, 1981-September 12, 1983         5.62        0.18       0.1575
September 12, 1983 1/                   26.93        0.04        0.03542
(29.93)     (0.03)
February 24, 1984 1|                    33.0         0.(3        0.028
AVERACE EXCHANCE RATES:
(Z/YS$)
1978                                     0.836
1979                                     1.729
1980                                     2.8!)
1981                                     4.384
1982                                     5.750
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Minerals and Petroleum                1407.5      1626.8      1178.4      1235.2
Others                                 427.1       411.3       321.5       218.8
Total                               1834.6      2038.1      1499.9      1454.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, (As of Dec. 31, 1983, Mill. US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                            4193
Non-Qiaranteed                                            235
Total outstanding & Disbursed                            4428
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982
PubLic Debt, irncl. guaranteed                                              10.7 3/
Non-{uaranteed Private Debt                                                  9.7
IBRD/IDA LENDDIG
(As of March 31, 1984, Mill. US$)
Outstanding & Disbursed                                   279.55
Undisbursed                                               216.85
Outstanding, mncl. Undisbursed                            496.40
1/ On September 12, 1983, 7aire introduoed a transitional dual exchange rate
regime, consisting of an official rate and a free market rate, shown in
parenthesis above. The two rates were unified on February 24, 1984;
henceforth, the rate will float on a weekly basis.
2/ Estimate.
3/ Reflects external pubUc debt service actuaLly paid.
FA2
April 20, 1984



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STAIUS OF BANK GIWP OPERATICNS IN ZAIRE
A. STATElNT OF RAN IANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1984)
L1a or
Credit   Year                                             AnKunt in US$ Million
Number   Signed   Borrower                           Bari      IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Prior
to June  Congo &    Transport               91.58 2/
1960     Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                             100.00
Fourteen Credits Fully DisbLtrsed                              167.10
571     1975      ZAIRE      Rail.-River II                    26.00         0.47
660     1976      ZAIE       Cotton Rehabilitation              8.00          1.17
796     1978      ZAIRE      Oil Palm                           9.00         7.29
902     1979      ZAIRE      Railways                          20.00         6.45
998     1980      ZAIRE      Fifth Dev. Finanoe                18.50         5.57
1040     1980      ZAIRE      Snallholder Maize                 11.00         8.61
1089     1981      ZAIRE      Kwilu Ngongo Sugar                26.40 3/      6.19 4/
1152     1981      ZAIRE     Fwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance   2.903/       1.714/
1180     1982      ZAIRE      ONATRA Modernization              26.00 3/     22.06 4/
1224     1982      ZAIRE      Shaba Power System Rehabilitation  19.00 31    15.24 4/
1241     1982      ZAIRE     Water Supply II                    18.00 31     12.58 4/
1244     1982      ZAIRE     Agriculture T.A.                    5.00         3.844/
1264     1982      ZAIRE      Second Cotton                     11.303/      10.3841
1273     1982      ZAIRE      Sixth DFEC                        21.50 3/     18.45 4/
1290     1982      ZAIRE     Higtway V                          43.50 3/     33.37 4/
1325     1983      ZAIRE     North East Rural Development       13.00        12.484/
1335     1983      ZAIRE      Ports Rehabilitation              25.00 3/     24.49 4/
1336     1983      ZAIRE      Gecamines T.A.                     7.00         7.00
1409     1983      ZAIRE      Petroleum Sector T.A.              4.50 3/      4.50 4/
1421 5/  1984      ZAIRE     Ruzizi II Hydroelectric            15.00 31     15.00 41
Total less cancellations):                  191.58    497.70 6/    216.85
- of which has been repaid                  126.63     1.62
Total now outstandiLng:                     64.95    496.C8        216.85
Anourt sold:                     54.47
of which has beer repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bark and IDA 1/            64.95    496.08
Total Undisbirsed:                           0.0                   216.85
1/ Prior to exchange adjustnent.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/ US dollars anmonts computed at the rate of approval dates.
4/ US dollars amounts computed at the March 31, 1984 rate.
51 Signed bit not yet effective.
6/ A Second (SN(Z) Railway Credit (US$26.0 million) and Seventh DEC Credit (US$36.0
million) were approved since March 31.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. SEATaEDNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (lo of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                              Type of             Aiount in US$ Millions
Year     Obligor                    Business            loan    Equity  Total
1970     Societe' Financiere de     DFC                   -      0.76     0.76
Dgveloppement (SOFIDE)
1979    Zaire Gulf Oil Coqmny       Oil product:ion     2.50              2.50
& expl. Canipany
1979     Zaire Petroleumi Company   Oil producl:ion     1.61              1.61
& expl. Canxny
1983    Nord-Sud Industrie-
RDHS1OFF GMBH, for studies
on an aluminium project                      0.23       -      0.23
Total gross commitments                        4.34     0.76     5.10
LesS repayments                                3.70       -      3.70
Held by IFC                                    0.64     0.76     1.40



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:                       April 1983
(b)  Preparation by:                       DEPS assisted by consultants
(c)  Appraisal Mission:                    February 1984
(d)  Negotiations                         May 31-June 1, 1984
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness         October 1984
Section II: Special Project Implementation Action
Joint Government/Association review of implementation progress,
including an evaluation report of the prior year's operations which would
be prepared by the PIU March 31 each year.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) Beginning with the 1984/85 school year (a) enrollment fees
would be retained at the school level for the use of such
schools, and (b) those schools which participate in the pilot
textbook distribution component would use the enrollment fees
charged for classes utilizing the books as a charge for the
use of the books, to be applied to their replacement every
three years (para. 51);
(ii) The Borrower would furnish to the Association for its appro-
val: (a) within eighteen months of Credit signing a plan for
the modification of DEPS structures and procedures and (b)
within two years of Credit signing a plan for the physical
layout of DEPS facilities designed to improve its efficiency,
control and communications (para. 52);
(iii) The Project Implementation Unit would furnish to the Associa-
tion by November 1 of each year an annual work program cover-
ing operations under the project for the coming year and by
March 31 of each year, an annual evaluation of the previous
year's operations (para. 59);



I
q



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
ZAIRE
EDUCATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
US$'000
IDA FY      Quarter           Quarterly       Cumulative
1985           II                380               380
III                850             1,230
IV                850             2,080
1986            I                850             2,930
II                970             3,900
III                970             4,870
IV                670             5,540
1987            I                680             6,220
II                860             7,080
III                860             7,940
IV                440             8,480
i
1988            I                250             8,800
II                150             8,950
III                 50             9,000



- 40 -
ANNEX V
ZAIRE
EDUCATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROJECT
Procurement Method
US$'(00
1/
Project Element            ICB         LCB    OTHER       N.A.    Total Costs
Technical Assistance                          4,580                  4,580
(4,060)               (4,060)
Short Term Consultants                        1,180                  1,180
(1,060)               (1,060)
Overseas Training                                770                   770
(700)                 (700)
Local Seminars                                             920         920
(450)       (450)
Surveys                                                    130         130
Equipment                  950         380                           1,330
(950)      (320)                          (1,270)
Vehicles                   400                                         400
(400)                                       (400)
Material                               420       170                    590
(360)    (140)                  (500)
Printing/Distribution                            440                   440
(350)                 (350)
Office Rehabilitation                  130                             130
(9IO)                           (90)
Miscellaneous                                    170                    170
_____  (120)                  (120)
1,350         930    7,310      1,050      10,640
(1,350)       (770)  (6,430)    (450)       (9,000)
1/     Net of additional recurrent personnel costs of $38,000.
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the
proposed IDA Credit.



Izv  16°                       2nt                                z4                          _&    28- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 3'i60RH
Z A I R E                ~~~CE,NTRAL/__\ AFICN                          REPUBL                                                 SU DA N
'4ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                                                        ,-                -BAUEE                                                                             4
NrztionaJ calpita                                           Ge.en                                                                             HAT _,   UlrL.E \
fBProvincial capital                                               0  eer  nn AT EE, 
o   District seat                        /                 }                      MONGALA   %)Buto                                         5sr        
-> International boundaxry             j/ UBANGI                                                                                          0                 
- Pr vincialI bo,.,d1ary                            /L/so L
----Diotrct boundarY        >            ;'j_                      /      f=.=  -    =\                  /        H    A U T            t-JCZ A'   -,-r R ;
*                                                          S         F - f            1    t   J -J                                           S _                   Buniao      /
\,                       ej   $°t         ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 sasanlrusuX  l    \    :                                            TURI           JLo
X ) ~~~EQUATEUR j\9\'g.X t6S
t g ,gi~~~~~brandrJkcg Bond HU-ZAIRE)NOD 
S  s   /  ffi   ,'                              ,2                           < :    t<l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KVU     UGANDA
z  t     o       /     5 \   r (  2        TSHUAPA                                      ,'         <r                         *      -
rX   w   )   <R4s,tO  <                I~~~~~~~no,ngro  g                  *            ',_                           4     y       'Z k KWND 
*? g ! . hl~~~~~~~~~~-                         A If , N   D   OC M  B     E    Knd \WluOC 
9             | ~~~~~~~- -Band.ndu  -.          ,                                                                   SUD-KIU%UUD 
-4-~~~~ Brrzzravdle j                        2    X            2        t               <nuu        SANKURU 0                  AIM              
4,°>0SFS            {oKengeJKWl U                                          C    z5                 Lusm @                                             )TNAI
Ar/orzZic               \,        KWAGO             V        ?;rZ  j    :,f   ;:;himbUU    e,\C,                  TASIA K                  .TANZANy IA
O c e o rl                \                           L           \\   z   ;               l                 R                               \,~~~~~~~~~Knanc    anik
NIGEFR. .,                                                          i                                          HAUT- LOMAMI                ,                  >e
f 9 SUO~~~~~~AN  r<AN C7 0   L A  H.J
,NIGEI   '                                 s o!                                                                              H    rtA ,B             A      <    z>Mrr
r   C\TAFR REPUBL!t          >                                                     \d \~
' CAMuER0OJ    .0-                                                            s8L,    R_.s 
EQUGAUTORIA L'.y_ _,/                        )<                                                                LUALABA-                             SHB        i ZAMBIA
;            ~~~~GABONt      ZAIRE                          ,,,a,M-,,d,,--                                                      Klei            r
j2BURUNDI       oz.k.a 3-g-1.wsroMesK¢nusl:MQrs                                                        iks                          oean7ol
r/an,/s    8;    )   j   .TANZANIn  -~~12-           100o         200          300                                                    K _    t ushi  \
0 ad Oe-)                          S     ) \                            M I L ES?>                                                                                 4
jZAIVBIl_. In °=    o            ,°      °      0       00S° .                 .               Z A  M  B I A                               i
.~~._ _  S   rxa    8! <                               i                                 Z4 2KILONETE.



I



