OFFICIAL      CREDIT NUMBER 1519-0 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Educational Technical Assistance and Training Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated,        c                /5     1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1519-0 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   /9 I 0J           , 1984,
between the REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Cr-,dit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated June 16, 1983 and September
12, 1983 between the Borrower and the Association.
(b) "Department" means the Borrower's Ministry of Primary
and Secondary Education;
(c) "Project Unit" means the unit within the Department
charged with carrying out the Project pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement;
(d) "Special Account" means the account to be opened pur-
suant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(e) "Project Fund" means the account to be maintained by
the Project Unit pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit


﻿- 2 -
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to eight million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 8,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Pro-
ject Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in the Bank of Zaire a special
account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1988 or
such later date as     the  Association  shall  establish.     The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿- 3 -
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March I
and September 1 commencing March 1, 1995, and ending September 1,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
the Project Unit described in paragraph (b) of this Section with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial, administrative, educational and technical
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.


﻿(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower shall maintain within the Department a Project Unit the
Director of which shall report directly to the Secretary General
of the Department and the staffing and terms of reference of
which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(c) In order to facilitate the provision of funds for the
Project the Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Fund
in the Bank of Zaire to be operated by the Project Unit and
utilized by it exclusively to pay the costs in Zaires of goods
and services required to carry out the Project; the Project Fund
shall be opened by the Borrower with an initial deposit of
$20,000 equivalent; by April 1, 1985 the Borrower shall deposit
therein an additional $50,000 equivalent and by July 1, 1985, an
additional $30,000 equivalent; thereafter, the Project Fund
shall be replenished by the Borrower at the beginning of each
calendar quarter with such amounts as shall be required to meet
expenditures on the Project for such quarter.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in the in carrying out of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment  shall  be  satisfactory   to  the  Association,  such
consultants and experts to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Borrower  shall  cause  all   goods  and  services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. (a) Beginning with the school year 1984-1985,
the Borrower shall ensure that enrollment fees (minerval) be
retained at the school level for the use of such schools as
determined by their management committees.


﻿- 6 -
(b) In connection with the carrying out of Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall instruct the schools which benefit
from such Part of the Project to use such enrollment fees as are
charged for classes utilizing the books as a charge for the use
of the books, to be applied towards their replacement every three
years.
Section 3.06. The schools to receive textbooks and the plan
for the distribution of such books under Part C of the Project
shall be subject to the approval of the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
within eighteen months from the date of this Agreement, the
proposed plan for changes in the structure and procedures of the
Department prepared under Part E of the Project, shall, within
two years from the date of this Agreement, furnish to the
Association a plan for the physical layout of the Department's
facilities designed to improve its efficiency, control and
communications and shall in each case promptly exchange views
with the Association on such plans.
Section 3.08. The organization and operation of the vehicle
credit fund under Part F of the Project shall be subject to the
agreement of the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to
prepare and furnish to the Association for its approval:
(a) by November 1 of each year, annual work programs
covering operations under the project for the coming year and, by
March 31 of each year, beginning after the end of the first year
of such operations, evaluations of the prior year's operations;
and
(b) lists of candidates and their qualifications for all
training outside of Zaire included in the Project, as well as
proposed programs and institutions for all seminars and other
training activities outside and in Zaire included therein.
Section 3.10. In order to ensure efficiency and coordination
in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall maintain a
Project Coordinating Committee chaired by the Commissioner of
State for Primary and Secondary Education or his nominee and
including representatives of the Department, as well as of the


﻿-7-
Departments of Finance, of Planning, and of Public Administration
and the Director of the Project Unit, to meet quarterly and to
review and approve the annual work programs for the Project and
the related budgets and progress reports prepared by the Project
Unit.
Section 3.11. Within three months following the completion
of Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association an interim evaluation of the costs and benefits
thereof, pending completion of the report required under Section
3.04 (d) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
represenLatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, as well as the Special
Account and the Project Fund, audited for each fiscal year in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the


﻿-8-
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Associatioa shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Without limitation to the foregoing, the
Borrower shall have an audit of the Project Fund and the Special
Account carried out by the Department of Finance, Budget and
Portfolio, following six months of operation of such Fund and
Account and shall furnish promptly to the Association a certified
conformed copy of such audit.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section  5.01.   The  following   events  are  specified   as
Additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Special Account has been opened;
(b) the Project Fund has been established with the initial
deposit of $20,000 equivalent required under Section 3.01 (c);
and
(c) the Project Coordinating Committee described in Section
3.10 of this Agreement has been established.
Section 5.02 - The date     ctAC    1,      S ,     is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Commissioner of State- of the Borrower
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances
Botte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                       Telex:
DENFIN                             21161 KIN GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650 (WUT) or
97688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Rehabilitation              75,000          80%
of office space
(2) Equipment,               1,270,000          100% of foreign
supplies and                               expenditures and
materials (except                          80% of total cost
materials under                            of imported items
Category (8))                             purchased locally
(3) Materials for,             140,000          100% of foreign
and printing                               expenditures and
and distribu-                              80% of total cost
tion of,                                   of imported items
textbooks                                 purchased locally
(4) Vehicles                                    100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of total cost
of imported items
purchased locally
(a) Bicycles,             130',000
motor-
cycles
and out-
board
motors
(b) all other             250,000
vehicles
(5) Consultants'             4,120,000          100% of foreign
and experts'                               expenditures
services;
surveys


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Training
(a) in Zaire              300,000          80% of price of
imported mate-
rials
(b) outside Zaire         670,000          100%
(7) Audits                      40,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(8) Materials and               85,000          70% until
printing for                               SDR 25,000
statistical                                equivalent has
forms                                      been disbursed,
50% until a fur-
ther SDR 50,000
has been dis-
bursed and 20%
thereafter
(9) Fuel, lubri-                60,000          80%
cants and
spare parts
for vehicles
under Cate-
gory (4) (b)
above
(10) Initial deposit            50,000         Amount due under
in Special                                 Schedule 3 of
Account to                                 this Agreement
prefinance
items under
Categories
(2), (3), (4),
(6) (a),(8)
and (9) above


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(11) Refunding of              450,000          Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                                of this Agreement
(12) Unallocated               960,000
TOTAL              8,600,000
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (11) is
in excess of the amount required, the balance will be reallocated
to Category (12).
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for expenditures
made prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:


﻿- 14 -
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Department
in improving its capabilities in planning, administration and
management at the national, regional and local levels and in the
development of other means of improving the quality of primary
and secondary education.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Planning and Statistics
Carrying out a program of data collection and analysis
including the production of statistical forms for the purpose;
training outside Zaire of trainers in planning and training in
Zaire of regional Departmental and school staff; acquisition for
use in the foregoing of equipment and materials;
Part B:   School Mapping
Carrying out pilot school-mapping exercises in the Kenge
area of the Bandundu Region and in the Madimba area of the
Bas-Zaire Region and the development of a school-mapping strategy
based on the results thereof; training outside and inside Zaire
in school-mapping;
Part C:   Production of Textbooks
Production and distribution of about 200,000 school text-
books on mathematics and French language for the first two years
of secondary school, in Bas-Zaire and Equateur; training outside
of Zaire in such production and distribution; evaluation of the
book program;
Part D:   Technical Education
Conducting a survey of technical and professional schools
and the preparation of programs to upgrade their teachers in
eight specialities; training outside and in Zaire in specific
fields of technical education planning and operations and the
preparation and testing of improved technical teacher packages;


﻿- 16 -
Part E:   Strengthening of the Department
Conducting an in-depth analysis of the administrative and
financial structure and of the procedures of the Department;
modifying the structure and procedures of the Department pursuant
to a plan based on the foregoing; training outside and in Zaire
of Departmental staff in budgeting, accounting and education
management    and   administration;    installation    of    radio
communications n,quipment in Kinshasa and in the regions and
training of staff in its use and maintenance;
Part F:   Training of Principals and Inspectors
Carrying out a program to train about 2,400 primary and
secondary school principals and inspectors in administration,
management, budgeting and accounting; establishment of a vehicle
credit   fund  to  assist   inspectors  in   acquiring  means   of
transportation necessary for their works; acquisition of bicycles
and motorcycles to be resold to beneficiaries of such credit
fund; acquisition of outboard motors for the inspection service;
and
Part G:   Data Processing
Improving the data-processing capabilities of the Department
through the installation of new equipment and the acquisition of
new programs and materials; training outside and in Zaire in
information  management; and    the  organization  of  the   data-
processing services as a separate unit responsible directly to
the Secretary General of the Department, in a manner satisfactory
to the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1987.


﻿- 17 -
S CEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule.
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (2), (3), (4), (6) (a),
(8) and (9) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in Zaires
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (10) and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower, with-
draw on behalf of the Association from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expendi-
tures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (2), (3), (4), (6)
(a), (8) and (9), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Sched-
ule.


﻿- 18 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b)
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total un-
withdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (2), (3),
(4), (6) (a), (8) and (9), minus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to such Categories,
Shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
initial deposit, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to such Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower and shall,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, be made only
after and to the extent the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or


﻿- 19 -
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Zaire


﻿- 21 -
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Zaire
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Zaire equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 22 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for (a) the rehabilitation of office space for
data processing, (b) furniture and equipment which, after
grouping, are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, (c)
printing and distribution of textbooks and statistical forms and
(d) materials and supplies which, after grouping, are estimated
to cost less than $50,000 but more than $10,000 equivalent, may
be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with applicable local procedures.
2.   Contracts for materials    and supplies which, after
grouping, are estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent may
be procured on the basis of the lowest evaluated quotation from
among at least three suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $10,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association


﻿- 23 -
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1 (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the re-
spective bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of t  F.
198
FOR SECRETARY


