Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4690-MV 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Economic Stabilization and Recovery Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 28, 2010 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT dated March 28, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MALDIVES (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  
The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,500,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the 
Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the 
Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying 
out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Treasury. 
Page  4
3
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Treasury 
 
 
Ameenee Magu 
 
Malé 20379 
 
Republic of Maldives 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(960) 332 4432  
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Male, Republic of Maldives, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES 
 
By  /s/  Ali Hashim 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Naoko Ishii 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under the 
Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient has established a comprehensive database featuring consolidated 
data on all public sector employees
,
together with each employee’s pay package, 
such database to be updated semi-annually until the human resources module of 
the Public Accounts System is fully operational. 
 
2. 
The Recipient has presented the 2010 budget to Parliament on November 22, 
2009 premised on a three (3) year rolling framework in conformity with the 
Government Finance Statistics 1986.   
 
3. 
The Recipient has prepared a revenue forecasting methodology to be updated on 
a
monthly basis and be presented to the Fiscal Affairs and Economic Policy 
Division. 
 
4. 
The Recipient has completed the implementation of the second phase of the 
Public Accounting System Project in each of:  (a) the President’s Office; (b) the 
Department of National Planning; and (c) the Civil Service Commission. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing is allocated in a single 
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
8,500,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
8,500,000 
Page  6
5
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the 
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Association is satisfied with: (a) the 
Program being carried out by the Recipient, and (b) the appropriateness of the 
Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit 
account in Dollars (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account”) on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
  
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account.  Upon each deposit of 
an amount of the Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the 
Recipient shall transfer the Rufiyaa equivalent into the Public Bank Account. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
 
F. Audit.
 
The Recipient shall: (a) have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with  consistently  applied  auditing  standards  acceptable  to  the  Association;          
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and (c) furnish to the Association such 
other information concerning the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and its audit 
as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
commencing on May 15, 2020 to and including 
November 15, 2029 
 
1% 
commencing on May 15, 2030  to and including 
November 15, 2049 
 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1.  
“Civil Service Commission” means the Recipient’s independent Civil Service 
Commission established pursuant to the Civil Service Act (Act Number 5/2007), 
or any successor thereto.  
 
2. 
“Department of National Planning” means the Recipient’s Department of 
National Planning within the Ministry of Finance and Treasury or any successor 
thereto. 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
Page  9
8
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
5. 
“Government Finance Statistics 1986” means the international guidelines on 
statistical methodology issued by the International Monetary Fund in 1986. 
6. 
“Fiscal Affairs and Economic Policy Division” means the Recipient’s Fiscal 
Affairs and Economic Policy Division within the Ministry of Finance and 
Treasury or any successor thereto. 
 
Page  10
9
7. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part D. 1 
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Ministry of Education” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Education or any 
successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“President’s Office” means the office of the President of the Recipient. 
 
10. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated December 20, 2009 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
11. 
“Public Account System” means the Recipient’s integrated financial management 
information system for government transactions. 
 
12. 
“Public Accounting System Project” means the Public Accounting System being 
implemented under the European Community Grant for Post Tsunami Recovery 
and Reconstruction Project signed between the International Development 
Association and the Republic of Maldives dated October 9, 2006. 
 
13. 
“Public Bank Account” means the Recipient’s single treasury account as defined 
in the public finance Act, 2006. 
 
14. 
“Rufiyaa” means the currency of the Maldives. 
 
15. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
Page  11
10 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
Page  12
11 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
