Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  52128 
Operation Name 
Maldives Economic Stabilization and Recovery Credit 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration (25%); Financial management 
(25%), Public enterprise management (25%) Social protection 
(25%) 
Project ID 
P114463 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALDIVES 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 23, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 1, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 26, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The new Government of Maldives faces the challenge of urgently reducing an unsustainable fiscal 
deficit while managing the macroeconomic consequences of the global financial crisis.
 
In the 
absence of any adjustment, the fiscal deficit is expected to reach nearly 33 percent of GDP in 2009.  
A
crisis-induced drop in government revenues from the tourism sector (down 25 percent year-over-
year) exposed a legacy of post-Tsunami fiscal mismanagement. With external financing sources 
limited by the ongoing global crisis, over 20 percent of this deficit is being monetized.   
The new Government is committed to a reform program that has at its core a sharp fiscal adjustment. 
 
The Bank has worked closely with the Government, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the 
Asian Development Bank (ADB) to design a program that would stabilize the situation through a 
significant fiscal adjustment 
and
a
scaling-up of external financing.  The authorities have reached an 
agreement with the IMF on a 36-month combined Stand-By Arrangement and External Shocks 
Facility ($90 million or 700 percent of quota, expected Board date December 4, 2009).  The ADB is 
proposing a US$35 million budget support operation with half being disbursed in 2009 and a 
roughly equal amount planned for mid-2010.   
This proposed operation is to support the government뭩 determined efforts to put in place a program 
of reforms to combat the effects of the global financial crisis and to put government finances on a 
sustainable path.
 
The main aims of the government뭩 program are to achieve a smaller and more 
efficient public service, institute a reliable source of tax revenues, improve institutional 
arrangements for fiscal policy and reduce the role of the state in the economy, while effectively 
protecting the vulnerable groups of society. The Bank뭩 proposed operation is the first of a two-
operation programmatic series and is being processed under the IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast-
Track Facility. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
Policy actions supported by this proposed operation will concentrate on helping to ensure that the 
government뭩 fiscal austerity measures are sustainable. The focus on public financial management 
by addressing key institutional shortcomings in budget preparation and implementation aims to 
Page  2
enable the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to recognize budget overruns early so that they can be 
addressed in advance. The public service reform will endeavor to help the government implement 
redundancies and wage cuts in a way that will not lead to their subsequent undoing or in a way that 
compromises the delivery of essential government services. The public enterprise reform program 
will direct its support towards 
the government뭩 ambitious public private partnership program, while 
underpinning fiscal sustainability. The social protection measures will help cushion the impact of 
what is to be a significant structural change in the economy. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
This operation is envisaged to provide US$12 million in early 2010 and a second proposed operation of a 
similar amount in late 2010 or early 2011.  The final amount of the second proposed operation will be 
determined in further consultations with management and Government. The second Development Policy 
Credit (DPC) would depend on a deepening of the reform program.   
 
A
policy program matrix describes the ongoing reform efforts of the Government of Maldives (GoM), as well 
as next steps before the end of 2009 and 2010. The
 GoM뭩 initiatives are noted in four broad areas: 
macroeconomic stability, public financial management, public service reform, public enterprise 
reform, and social protection.
 
4. 
Risks and Mitigation 
 
The main risks include political risk, fiscal and macroeconomic sustainability, vulnerability to external 
shocks, and limited technical capacity. 
 

Political risk.
 
Democracy in the Maldives is very much in a nascent stage and the Government of 
President Nasheed lacks a parliamentary majority which could significantly constrain the 
G
overnment뭩 plans going forward. Political risks are likely to be a feature for the entire length of 
the proposed program period. 
 

Fiscal sustainability.
 Given the size and form of the fiscal adjustment that the government is 
undertaking there are significant implementation risks. Less than satisfactory implementation of the 
fiscal consolidation measures could put the fixed exchange rate regime under pressure. The proposed 
program aims to mitigate these risks by not proceeding to the second proposed operation should 
macroeconomic imbalances not improve through lack of Government reform effort.
 

Exogenous shocks.
 As a small, open, and undiversified economy, the Maldives is vulnerable to the 
adverse effects of external shocks such as an oil price shock.  The focus on Government revenue 
generation measures in the IMF and ADB programs of support will help mitigate the risk of external 
shocks translating into large macroeconomic imbalances. 
 

Capacity constraints.
 Limited technical capacity is one of the leading development constraints in 
the Maldives.  Capacity constraints significantly impact all aspects of government functions.  GoM 
in the recent past has sought increased interventions from multi-lateral donors such as the World 
Bank, IMF and the ADB on various aspects of technical assistance (TA). Specific TA policies have 
not been built into the program, but capacity constraints were reflected in the program design. 
 
Page  3
Source: 
(US$m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Credit 
12 
 Total 
12 
 
5. Contact points: 
 
Francis Rowe 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-6682 
Fax: (202)-522-0356
 
Email: 
frowe@worldbank.org
Kirthisri Wijeweera 
Title: Economist  
Tel: 
(9411) 5561342
 
Fax: 
(9411) 2440357 
Email: 
kwijeweera@worldbank.org
