Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4350 
Operation Name 
Maldives Development Policy  Grant 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);General finance sector 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P114463 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALDIVES 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 25, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 23, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 21, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Sound macroeconomic and fiscal policy has underpinned strong development performance for almost three 
decades in the Maldives.  Since the 2004 tsunami disaster, however, policy has been highly expansionary, 
with large overall deficits stemming from elevated spending far beyond the needs of immediate tsunami 
reconstruction, most of which was in any event financed by development partners.  In mid-2008, a new 
Finance Minister was appointed who seeks to strengthen policy, return to a path of greater fiscal prudence, 
and protect hard won development gains.  The proposed first development policy credit (DPC) aims to help 
the Government of Maldives (GoM) meet the challenges of policy adjustment, and chart a course that will 
contribute to sustaining robust development progress over the medium-term.  A substantial fiscal gap has also 
arisen in the 2008 budget (among other things, large revenues expected from a planned transshipment port 
have not been realized), and in addition to spending adjustments that were implemented in August 2008, the 
GoM hopes to meet some of these financing needs with external assistance.   
 
The effort is being coordinated closely with other development partners, especially the Asian Development 
Bank (ADB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).  On the request of the GoM, the proposed DPC is 
being prepared jointly with the ADB (though feasibility, modalities and other aspects remain uncertain), on 
the basis of the GoM뭩 program of policy and institutional reforms.  The IMF Board discussed the most recent 
Article IV in early September, 2008, and consultations between all three institutions are ongoing. 
 
Two issues are worth noting at the outset.  First, the IDA15 allocation for the Maldives is limited to about 
US$18 million over three years, constraining the size of possible budget support in the first of two planned 
operations to about US$8-10 million from IDA, possibly augmented by a similar amount from the ADB.
1
Hence, while the funds will help incentivize some of the reform initiatives underway, it will cover only a 
small part of the overall financing gap.  Second, as described in greater detail below, the Maldives is 
undergoing an ambitious program of constitutional change, with the first presidential elections under a multi-
party democracy scheduled for mid-October, 2008.  As a result, the ability of the current government to 
commit to a medium-term program of reforms is limited, and will need to be confirmed by the new 
government before Board submission, requested by the GoM for December 2008, prior to the close of the 
Maldives fiscal year.  
 
Despite these concerns, the present engagement on the DPC is an important opportunity to help the GoM shift 
to a stronger policy course, and staffs are endeavoring, as far as possible, to facilitate progress.  Also, it is 
1
Under the small island exception, in recognition of the vulnerability of small island states, the Maldives has access to IDA despite 
having per capita income in excess of the IDA cut-off. 
Page  2
expected that many of the key government counterparts at the technical level will remain, and the GoM views 
the proposed budget support operation as an important instrument to encourage continuity through the 
democratic transition.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The broad goal of initiating the proposed program of DPCs in the Maldives is to help the GoM implement 
policy and institutional reforms in order to mitigate risks and support robust economic performance over the 
medium-term.  The program will be closely aligned with the 7
th
 National Development Plan.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Mindful of the IDA15 constraints noted above, the WBG and ADB operations are envisaged to provide 
US$10-15 million over the next 2-3 years.  While the final amount of the first proposed operation will be 
determined in further consultations with management and at negotiations, the expected amount is US$8-10 
million.  Further DPCs would depend on a deepening of the reform program.   
 
A
policy program matrix describes the ongoing reform efforts of the GoM, as well as next steps before the 
end of 2008, and over the medium-
term.  The GoM뭩 initiatives are noted in four broad areas: macroeconomic 
and fiscal management, public financial management, public enterprise reform, and accountability 
institutions.   
 
4.  Risks and Mitigation 
 
The main risks include political risk, fiscal and macroeconomic sustainability, vulnerability to external 
shocks, and limited technical capacity. 
 

Political risk.
 
With elections and other significant governance changes imminent, there is a risk that the 
transition is bumpy, or that there will be a substantial shift in policy.  The first risk is beyond the scope of the 
proposed project, but by mitigating macroeconomic risks, the operation helps reduce the risk of difficulties. 
The new government may wish to shift course, but wide-ranging consultations generated a consensus that the 
measures articulated in the matrix are both necessary and desirable.   
 

Macroeconomic sustainability.
 
Given the existing policy trajectory and the increasingly unfavorable 
external environment, there is a risk that the GoM encounters fiscal and/or balance of payments difficulties.  
The project aims to mitigate this risk by helping the GoM implement stronger policy. 
 

Vulnerability to external shocks.
 
As a small, open, and undiversified economy, the Maldives is vulnerable 
to the adverse effects of external shocks.  These could have a major impact on debt sustainability, for 
example.  Strengthening the policy framework will be essential to mitigating the risk of external shocks.   
 

Limited technical capacity.
 
Limited technical capacity is one of the defining development constraints in the 
Maldives, and much of the Bank뭩 engagement is focused on providing TA.  Addressing this issue is largely 
being done through substantial TA loans from the ADB, and capacity constraints were also reflected in the 
project design.   
 
Source: (US$m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Credit 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
Page  3
5. Contact points: 
 
Christian Eigen-Zucchi 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-4960 
Fax: (202)-522-0356
 
Email: 
ceigenzucchi@worldbank.org
Marco Scuriatti 
Title: Senior Country Officer 
Tel: (202) 473-9794 
Fax: (202)-522-0356
 
Email: 
mscuriatti@worldbank.org
