Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13869-CD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
MARCH 3, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF) / US$1 = 512.25 CFAF
100 CFAF = IFF
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Im = 1.09 yd
I m2 = 10.76 sq ft
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS      - Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
APMS      - Appui psycho-medico-social
ASTBEF  - Association 7chadienne du Bien-Etre F-amilial (Chadian Association of Family Welfare)
CERPOD  - Center for Research on Population and Development
CILONG   - Centre dInformation et de Liaison des ONG (NGO Liaison Group)
CILSS     - Comite inter-etats de lutte contre la s&heresse dans le [Sahel
CIP       - Carriage and Insurance Paid
CNLS      - Comite National de Lutte contre le SIDA
CNPHR   - (ommission Nationale pour la Population et les Ressources Ifumaines
CPR       - Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CSM       - Condom Social Marketing
CST       - Conseil Superieur de Transition
CTLS      - Comite 7echnique de Lutte contre le SIDA
DHS       - Demographic and Health Survey
DPP       - Declaration de Politique de Population
DPDR      - Direction de la Planification, du Dlveloppement et de la Reconstruction
DSEED    - Direction de la Statistique et des Etudes Economiques et Demographiques
DSIS      - Division in charge of the health information system
(Division du .svsteVne d'information sanitaire)
FOSAP    - Fonds de Soutien auxActivites en matiere de Population (Support Fund for Population
Activities)
FP        - Family Planning
GDP       - Gross Domestic Product
HIV       - Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IEC       - Information, Education, Communication
IPP       - Priority Indicators of Prevention (indicateurs prioritaires de prevention)
IUD       - Intra-uterine device
KAP       - Knowledge, Attitude, and Practice
MCH       - Maternal and Child Health
MOPC      - Ministry of Plan and Cooperation
MOPH      - Ministry of Public Health
MTP       - Medium-Term Plan
NGO       - Non-Governmental Organization
NRH       - National Referral Hospital
PADS      - Social Action Development Project (projet d'action sociale pour le developpement)
PCT       - Project Coordination Team
PFIE      - Programme de Formation et d'Information sur l'knvironnement
PMA       - Basic Package of Services (Plaquet minimum d'activites)
PNLS      - Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA
SSA       - Sub-Saharan Africa
STD       - Sexually Transmitted Disease
TFR       - Total Fertility Rate
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development
WHO       - World Health Organization



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I. INTRODUCTION
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT1
A. Background
B. Macro-Economic Context                                                                                    2
C   The Population Sector                                                                                    2
D. The HIV/AIDS Situation                                                                                    6
E. Government Strategy                                                                                      I I
1. Population and Family Planning Strategy                                                             I1
2. HlV/AIDS/STDs Strategy                                                                              12
F. The Bank Group's Role                                                                                    13
111. THE PROJECT                                                                                                1 5
A. Project Objectives and Scope                                                                             I 5
B. Project Dcscription                                                                                      15
1. Reinforcing the National Capacity to Implement the National                                        1I
Population Policy
2. Strengthening the National Capacity to Contain the Spread of                                        I8
HIV/AIDS/STDs
3  Putting in Place a Social Marketing Program  for the Promotion of Condoms                           2()
4  Promoting the Participation of the Private Sector and NGOs in Population.                           22
Family Planning, and HIV/AIDS/STD Programs
C. Project Cost and Financing Plan                                                                         24
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                                                      25
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness                                                              25
B. Project Coordination and Management                                                                     25
C. Monitoring and Evaluation and Reporting                                                                 27
D. Procurement                                                                                             27
E. Disbursements, Accounting and Auditing                                                                  3 0)
F. Environment                                                                                             32
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission in May 1994 and an appraisal mission that visited Chad in October-Novcmber 1994
comprising Nimes Eva Jaravsan, Mission Leader (AF3PH); Michele Lioy, IEC/Population Specialist (AF3PHI); Gabrielle Rooz, Project AXssistant
(A15P1I); and Mr. Mohsen Farz.a, Epidemiologist Consultant. Report processing was finalized with assistance from Mimes Gabriellc Rooz, Rosclivc
Leroy, Bilingual Staff Assistant (AF3P}1) and Anne Anglio, Language Staff Assistant (AF13PH). Mr. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa and NIr. D)avid l3erk
are the Department Director and Managing Division Chief, respectively, for the operation. Mrs. Maryse Pierre-Louis (MIN I P11) aid NMr. liLliacl
Porter (ASTHIR) are the peer reviewers.



V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                   32
A. Benefits                                                                 32
B. Risks                                                                    32
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                       33
TABLES:
Table I: Expected Evolution of the AIDS Epidemic Indicators, 1994-1999          10
Table 2: Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan                             24
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements                                               28
Table 4: Allocation and Disbursement ofthe IDA Credit                           31
ANNEXES:
Annex 2-1           Socio-Economic Indicators
Annex 2-2           Health and Safe Motherhood Project: Credit/Project Summary and
Role of the Health and Motherhood Project in Reinforcing AIDS
Control Activities
Annex 2-3           Population Action Plan and Monitoring Indicators
Annex 2-4           AIDS Action Plan and Monitoring Indicators
Annex 3-1           Training Program
Annex 3-2           Cost Tables
Annex 4-1           Supervision Plan
Annex 4-2          Procurement Arrangements/Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 4-3           Project Disbursement Profile
Annex 4-4           Documents in Project File
MAP:                IBRD 26775, February 1995.



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Chad
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Plan and Cooperation
Ministry of Public Health
Association Tchadienne du Bien-Etre Familial (ASTBEF)
Poverty:            Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:              SDR 13.9 million (US$ 20.4 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:     0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
Project Description:  The project would assist the Government in implementing its long-term
strategy in population and family planning (FP) and its medium term plan
1995-1999 for AIDS control. Its overall objectives are to advance the
onset of fertility decline by increasing the use of modem methods of
contraception, and slow the spread of HIV infection by promoting
behavioral change. To attain these objectives, the project would support
policies and investments designed to:
1.    Reinforcing the national capacity to implement the national
population policy by: (a) strengthening the national capacity for
undertaking population-related activities; (b) implementing a
community awareness program and dissemination of the
population policy; and (c) supporting population-related research.
2.     Strengthening the national capacity to contain the spread of
HIV/AIDS/STDs by: (a) institutional strengthening of the
Ministry of Public Health; and (b) supporting epidemiological,
operational, and socio-economic research.
3.    Putting in place a social marketing program for the promotion of
condoms; and
4.     Promoting the participation of the private sector and NGOs in
population, FP, and HIV/AIDS/STD programs by setting up a
social fund.



ii
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
Estimated Project Costs
Local    Foreign     Total
----(US$ million)---------
A. Reinforcing the national capacity to implement the           2.5        4.5         7.0
national population policy
B. Strengthening the national capacity to contain the spread of  3.7       2.2         5.9
HIV/AIDS/STDs
C. Putting in place a social marketing program for the promotion  2.1      4.3         6.4
of condoms
D. Promoting the participation of the private sector and NGOs   2.8        2.7         5.5
in population, FP, and HlV/AIDS/STDs programs
Total Base Costs                                        11.1       13.7       24.8
Physical contingencies                           0.4        0).6        1.0
Price contingencies                              0.7        0.7         1.4
Total Project Costs                                     12.2       15.0       27.2
Financing Plan
Financiers                                              Local    Foreign    Total
*--------(US$ million)---------
IDA                                                      9.0       11.4       20.4
KfW                                                     0.9         3.5        4.4
UNFPA                                                   0.0         0.1        0.1
Government                                               1.3        0.0        1.3
Communities                                              1.0        (.0        1.0
Total                                                   12.2       15.0       27.2
Estimated Credit Disbursements
(in US$ million)
-------------------------------------IDA Fiscal Years---------
FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99          FY2000    FY2001
Annual                0.4       2.4      3.2       5.0         6.6        2.8
Cumulative            0.4       2.8      6.0      11.0        17.6       20.4



iii
Benefits and Risks:    By assisting the Government in implementing its population policy, the
project would help incrcase community awareness of the legitimacy of FP
activities. It would facilitate the integration of FP into the public health
system and encouragc the private sector to work in this area. The overall
population program  including efforts supported by the IDA-financed
Health and Safe Motherhood project and NGOs, is expected to increase
the contraceptive prevalence rate from lcss than 2% to about 10% by the
year 2000. The wvider practice of FP would have a particularly beneficial
effect on the health of women and children. The project would help slow
the spread of the HIV infection and alleviate the burden of HIV/AIDS on
about 12.000 AIDS patients, 21,000 families, 45,000 orphans, and the
nation. The project would have significant returns in terms of years of
healthy life saved and would hold down the indirect economic cost of
AIDS -- the losses of productivity and human capital, which threaten the
long-term cconomic development of Chad. The project would also help
prevent the transmission of STDs, which is one of the most effective
strategies to inhibit the spread of HIV.  By the end of the project,
multisectoral IEC activities and the social marketing of condoms are
expected to produce behavioral changes among the 415,000 sexually-
active persons at high risk and reduce or prevent the transmission of HIV
infection and STDs. By contributing to reducing the number of infections
transmitted to women, the project would help reduce neonatal infection.
There are three main risks: First, the implementation of the population
policy may be hampered by the unstable political conditions in the
countrv.  This risk would be addressed by closely monitoring the
implementation of this policv through supervision of the project as well as
through the Bank's general dialogue with the Government. Second, the
Government's weak capacity may result in poor implementation. This risk
would be addressed through the strengthening of the public institutions
involved in project implementation, and through the use of NGOs as well
as the private sector.  Third, the Government's chronic financial
constraints may affect counterpart funding, particularly for salary
payments. This risk would be mitigated through the successful
implementation of the Economic Recovery Program and careful
monitoring of performance indicators.
Environmental
Risks:               No environmental risks are foreseen
Economic Rate
of Return:           Not applicable
Map:                 IBRD 26775, dated February 1995






REPUBLIC OF CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
I           The Government of Chad has requested IDA's assistance in financing a project
designed to assist in the implementation of its population program and its AIDS control program.
Total project cost is estimated at about US$27.2 million equivalent, net of taxes and duties, with a
foreign exchange component of US$15.0 million. IDA would finance US$20.4 million of total
project costs. The Government of Chad would contribute about US$1.3 million equivalent and
local communities US$1.0 million. Parallel cofinancing of about US$4.4 million and US$0.1
million is expected from KfW (Germany) and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities
(UNFPA) respectivelv.
1.2          The proposed project would be IDA's second free-standing operation in Chad in
the health and population sectors. The first involvement in the health sector was through the
ongoing Social Action Development project (PADS, Cr. 2156-CD) which includes a component
supporting the improvement of primary health care and social services in the capital N'djarnena
and, to a limited extent, in the Tandjile area.  IDA has recently approved the first free-standing
operation in the sector -- the Health and Safe Mothcrhood project (Cr. 2626-CD) which became
effcctive February 24, 1995. There is a significant degree of complcmentary between the proposed
project and the Health and Safe Motherhood project and their preparation has been closely
coordinated. Originally, one operation -- Health and Population -- was being prepared. However,
to ensure simple and tightly-focused projects, it was decided to split the Health and Population
project into two: Health and Safe Motherhood, and Population and AIDS Control. This has also
helped reduce the risk of overloading the Ministry of Public Health's (MOPH) limited project
coordination capacity as the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation is responsible for the proposed
project. Both projects reflect the priority given by the Bank to maintaining the emphasis on
human resources development in Chad.
11. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Background
2.1           Chad is one of the poorest countries in the world with a per capita GNP of
US$210 in 1993. Subsistence farming is the mainstay of 85% of the population and generates 35-
40% of GDP. The industrial sector includes a large cotton parastatal, public and para-public
medium-scale enterprises, and informal micro-enterprises. The service sector (40-45%) includes a
large informal trading sector.
2.2          In 1992, an estimated 30% of all adults and 18% of adult women were literate,
compared with 49% and 38% for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Available data suggest that the
health situation in the country is precarious. Life expectancy at birth is estimated at 47 years
(compared to 52 years for SSA), and the infant mortality rate is about 122 per 1,000 live births.
The principal causes of mortalitv and morbidity are infectious and parasitic diseases (including
most of the tropical diseases), pregnancy-related conditions, and malnutrition. AIDS is increasing
rapidly with the number of reported cases having practically doubled each year from 1986 to 1992.



2.3            Maternal mortality relatcd to childbirth is the main causc of dcath among women
of reproductive age. It is one of the highest in the world. A study of N'djamena National Rcferral
Hospital (NRH) has rcported an average matcrnal mortality ratio of 8X 1 pcr I 00,000 livc births for
thc vears 1986-1989  As tlhcsc arc hospital data, they arc in all likelihood an undcrcstimate of
national figures. Major dircct causcs of maternal mortality are hemiiorrhage/anicmia. eclamiipsia. and
post-partum and post-abortion infcctions. Adolcsccnt pregnancy. difficult access to hcalth care,
clandestine abortions, and low literacy among womcn are amonig the many indirect causes of
maternal mortality and an indication of the unfavorable situation of women. Basic socio-cconomic
indicators for Chad and comparator groups of countries are in Annecx 2-1.
B. Macro-Economic Context
2.4            Until the end of 1993. Chad's cconomy was scvercl hampercd by a combination
of armed conflicts, political turmoil, an overvalued rcal cxchange ratc, detcriorating tcrms of tradc
and wcakcncd cconomic and financial managcmcnt.  Thc dcpletionl of the formal base of the
economy was accompanied by a growing liqifidity crisis and drastic cuts in investment.
2.5           In the wvakc of the 50% dcvaluation of the C FA franc (in forcign currcncy tcrms)
on Januarv 12, 1994, Chad embarked on a 12-month stabilization program supported by an IMF
stand-by arrangement and an IDA Economic Rccovcry Credit (ERC). This program aims at
restoring equilibrium in public financcs and addrcsscs somc key issues among which the necessity
to restore an operative administration appcars paramount. Undcr the program, the effect of the
devaluation on priccs has been passed through to the tradable sector, notably livcstock and cotton.
The program includes a scrics of social measures to alleviate the impact of devaluation on
vulncrable groups. In addition, the Bank portfolio was restructurcd to includc new or supplemcntal
job-crcating projects and incrcascd supply of lowN-cost. gencric drugs.
2.6            The implementation of the stabilization program has suffcrcd from delays due to
pervasive administrative weakness and lack of coordination.  After the mid-tern review and
supervision of the ERC, the government has optcd to replacc the cxisting stand-by program with a
Fund-monitored program. This has becn dcsigncd with rcviscd performancc targcts for Deccmber
1994 and for March and June 1995. If the Decembcr targcts are met, it can be expccted that this
would lead to early negotiation of a policy framework paper w ith the IMF and the Bank and to a
subsequcnt considcration of Chad's access to the ESAF. In the longcr term. Chad's cconomic
prospects will rest upon sustaincd political stability. (iven increascd and durable security, the
cxploitation of the country's most promising rcsourcc. pctrolcum. could scrvc dcvclopment
purposcs and markedly improve living conditions.
C. The Population Sector
2 7            Demographic Characteristics.  Chad's population. which stood at roughly 3.0
million in 1960, has more than doubled in the past thirty years and was reportcd by the first
population census in April 1993 to be about 6.8 million. At prcsent, the average annual growth
rate is 2.5% (3% for SSA). The country's birth rate has remained at 45 per thousand since 1965,
while the crude death rate has decreased from 28 to 19 pcr thousand (compared to 16 per 1,000 in
SSA). Although the estimated total fertility rate (TFR) in Chad (5.7 live births per woman) is very
high by world standards, it is among the lowest in the rcgion, wherc the average is 6.6. The
prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) is very high and the partly consequent
prevalence of sterility might explain the country's lower fcrtility.  Improved health and socio-



3
economic conditions arc likely to exert upward pressure on the fertility rate in the short-run, a
concern which underscorcs thc importancc of a strong family planning effort.
2.8            Chad is morc urbanizcd than most other countrics in the Sahel sub-region. The
pressures of drought, Nvar, and political instability, coupled with deteriorating economic conditions
are rapidly increasing this pattern. Although data on internal migration are virtually non-existent,
rural to urban flows have becomc a recognized phenomenon in Chad.  The population of
N'djamena has increased five-fold between 1960 and 1990 to reach more than half a million
inhabitants; and the pcrcentagc of the urban population nationwide is 21% according to the 1993
census, one of the highest in the Sahel. While this urbanization trend might have a positive impact
on the population's attitudes with rcgard to family sizc, its impact on lowering fertility rates would
remain minimal in the foresecable futurc given the early age at marriage, polygamy, and low
literacy among wvomen.
2.9            Implications of Population Growth. Three scts of population projcctions have
been selected to illustratc the implications of Chad's rapid population growth: constant fertility
rate, gradual and rapid fertility dccline Although it would not bring about a major change in the
total population during this dccade, a gradual decrcasc in fertility under the standard variant is
achievable and could reducc the population growth rate towards the end of the next decade. Given
its poor cconomic and social indicators, it is important for Chad to lower its fertility rates and
bring about the necded demographic transition. In addition to the positive impact it would havc on
the health of mothers and children, declining fertility would also have a significant impact on
education, employment, environmental protection and overall povcrty reduction.
2.10           Family Planning  Following rcorganization of the Ministry of Public Health in
1991. and the crcation of a thrce-ticred health system with a district focus, Chad has moved in
servicc delivery from the vertical, project-based approach, towards an integrated approach.
Accordingly, a health care provider is expected to link preventive and curative care, and to provide
health, nutritional and FP services at the same facilitv. A minimum packagc of health services is
expected to be delivered at each level of the svstem and should include FP services. Moreover,
contraceptives are now part of the official list of cssential drugs. Howcver, with the cxception of a
few hcalth centers, this transition has becen slow. In 1993, thcre werc reportedly only eleven public
health facilities. out of about 400. providing contraccptive information and services.  All arc
located in urban arcas and are directly supported by donors, particularly UNFPA and USAID. FP
activitics are also provided to a limited cxtent by: (i) the Ministry of Social Affairs within social
ccnters in urban areas; and (ii) a fewv NGOs and religious organizations in their respective health
centers. As cxpected. modern contraceptive prevalence is verv low (less than 2%) although it has
clearly increased in areas where FP services arc availablc.  In N'djamena, the estimatcd
contraccptive prevalence rate (CPR) has incrcased from 2.9% in 1992 to 4.0% in 1993 (Division
du systLme d'information sanithaire - DSIS - MAinistlre de la Sante I)ublique). The actual rate for
N'djamcna is highcr as contraccptivcs sold in privatc pharmacies are not accounted for. However,
other rcgions like the Logone Occidcntal have very low CPR (0.3%). Oral contraceptives are the
method preferred by women; injcctables and condoms rank second and third respectively. The
utilization rate of I.U.D. and female barrier methods is insignificant due to socio-cultural factors
and lack of public awareness of risk behavior.
2.11           External Aid. Many donors have been active in the population/FP sector, with
UNFPA. USAID, and IDA providing the largest support IPPF supports the activities of its
affiliate. the Association 7chadienne du Bien-F<tre Familial (ASTBEF).  Donors have helped
Government develop and start to implement a comprehensive MCH program with integrated FP



4
services. UNFPA-funded activities for the period 1989/93 totaled US$3.5 million. UNFPA
activities concentrated primarily on the provision of technical and financial assistance for the
population census, population policy formulation, and the consolidation of MCH/FP program
management at the central level. Under its US$8.5 million child survival project wvhich started in
1993, USAID has decided to shift the emphasis of its project resources to the prefecture level, in
the Logone Oriental and the Moyen Chari where it aims to strengthen MCH/FP service delivery
and develop a capacity for health planning and administration. However, USAID is closing its
offices in Chad and is consequently phasing out gradually. While the Institut Tropical Suisse will
take over assistance to the delivery of health services in those regions, there will remain a major
gap in financing contraceptives as USAID was the main provider of contraceptives through the
national MCH program. While not focusing solely on population and MCHIFP activities, other
donors like the European Union, France, Switzerland and UN agencies like UNICEF and WHO,
have been quite active in assistance to service delivery within the framewvork sct by the National
Health Development Plan
2.12          Institutional Arrangements. Two major government institutions have principal
responsibilities for population activities: the MOPH, which is responsible for FP policy-making
and programming, and for coordinating, supervising and evaluating all FP activities, and the
Ministry of Plan and Cooperation (MOPC), which is the lead government agency for overall
population policy, program dcvelopment and coordination. Within the MOPC, the Division of
Population in the Direction de la Ilanification, du Developpement et de la Reconstruction
(DPDR) has been created to coordinate and follow-up the Declaration of Population Policy (DPP).
The Direction de la Statistique et des Etudes Economiques et lDmographiques (DSEED) in the
MOPC has the primary responsibility for demographic research and analysis.  However, its
capacity for population policy analysis and research is very limited. The MOPC chairs the intcr-
ministerial population committee (CNPRH) which prepared the DPP in 1993 and is responsible
for overseeing its execution. At a higher level is the high committee on population (Haut ('omite
de la Population), chaired by the President of Chad and including all ministers involved in the
execution of the population policy and programs. It examines in particular the recommendations of
the CNPRH.
Population Sector Development Issues
2.13          The issucs confronting the national population program can bc dividcd into two
broad areas: (a) weak scrvicc delivery and information dissemination problems. and (b) wcak
institutional capacity for managemcnt, planning and coordination of population activities.
a. Weak Service Delivery and Information Dissemination Systems
2.14          Access to MCH and FP Services. Access to MCH/FP services is very limited.
Only 30% of the population lives *vithin seven miles of a health facility. Even when physically
accessible, most public health facilities, particularly in rural areas, require major repairs.  In
addition to this state of disrepair and lack of sanitary conditions, several factors limit access to
basic services and contribute to the critical degradation in the quality of health services. First, a
shortage of qualified and motivated personnel is a major constraint to effective management of the
sector. A national study conducted in 1993 shows that the insensitivity of medical and para-
medical personnel is an important barrier to women utilizing health facilities. Second, scarcity and
'A detailed description of the National Health D)evelopment Plan is provided in the Staff Appraisal Report for the
Health and Safe Motherhood project (No. 12405 dated May 13, 1994-CD).



5
inappropriate use of drugs severely limit the adequacy of treatment.  Third, the low level of
operating budgets for health facilities limits the supply of essential materials (other than drugs).
2.15          The above-mentioned issues will be addressed by the IDA-financed Health and
Safe Motherhood Project which was approved by the Executive Directors on June 14, 1994 and
became effective on February 24, 1995. This project's central objective is to increase the access of
the population to quality basic health care, focusing particularly on the most vulnerable groups --
children and women of child-bearing age. It will assist the Government in implementing its current
health strategy with the key objectives of: (a) developing and strengthening the three-tiered health
pyramid by promoting decentralization, integrating activities and programs, and retraining health
personnel so that they can provide better quality health services; (b) carrying out the district health
plan (plan de couverture sanitaire); (c) ensuring access to low-cost essential drugs; and (d)
increasing community participation in the management and financing of primary health services
(the credit and project summary and a description of how this project reinforces AIDS control
activities are provided in Annex 2-2). The project is expected to result in increased access to
improved-quality health, nutrition, and FP services even within the framework of existing limited
sectoral resources. The steps taken to improve access to quality MCH/FP services will put in
place the basic infrastructure necessary for attaining the increase in FP service delivery required to
implement the Government's planned population program. Consequently, it will be possible for
many of the activities of the Population and AIDS Control project to be carried out only if the
Health and Safe Motherhood project progresses satisfactorily. Furthermore, if the Health & Safe
Motherhood project were to incur major delays for project reasons, IDA would call for a special
review of the proposed project to assess the implications and identify the steps which need to be
taken so that the proposed project can continue to progress satisfactorily.
2.16          Limited FP promotion and limited demand for and supply of contraception.
Current IEC activities for FP consist primarily of a diffuse presentation of messages produced
through the activities of the national MCH/FP program, with technical and financial support from
UNFPA and USAID. Message content generally emphasizes the generic concept of child-spacing
for maternal and child health reasons following the classic mode of clinic-based education sessions.
Data on media coverage, credibility, and acceptability are scarce, and radio programming reflects
the general themes of ongoing health activities and vertical programs, rather than selected topics
for target population groups. Its potential as an effective channel for increasing public awareness
of FP and for motivating families to change their reproductive behavior has not been fully tapped.
2.17          The proposed project will address these issues in a manner complementary to that
of the Health and Safe Motherhood project. One objective of the latter is to develop and implement
a nationwide IEC program, and the project will help strengthen the newly reorganized IEC Division
at the MOPH to carry out a well-defined role of planning, coordination, conceptualization,
supervision and quality control. An IEC action plan has been prepared and project activities that
have been identified on the basis of this plan will focus on several health topics, one of them being
family planning. These IEC activities are necessary to translate family preferences into effective
demand for contraception in the Government's population program. There is a need, however, to
develop population-related multi-sectoral IEC activities. These activities will be developed by the
Division of Population of the MOPC in collaboration with the IEC Division of the MOPH and
financed by the present project. With regard to contraceptive supply, when the Health and Safe
Motherhood project was designed, there was no need to finance contraceptives as these were
supplied by USAID. However, with the latter pulling out of Chad, a serious shortage of
contraceptives in public health facilities beginning in 1996 is foreseeable and needs to be addressed



6
in this project in order to ensure that family planning services envisaged under the Health and Safe
Motherhood project will be available in fact.
b. Weak institutional capacity for management, planning and coordination of
population activities
2.18          The MOPC  has limited institutional capacity to plan and coordinate the
development of a multi-sectoral population policy. A unit has been created in DPDR to deal with
the population issue, and the necessary human and financial resources have been allocated.
Nonetheless, substantial training programs and short-tcrm technical assistance are needed to
strengthen the capacity of the nascent population unit. The results of the population census and of
the household surveys conducted under the PADS are expected to remedy the lack of basic data
which has hindered the policy development process.
D. The HIV/AIDS Situation
2.19          Since 1986 when the first cases of AIDS were reported, Chad has expanded its
surveillance activities to include several population groups. Data reported since 1991 among
pregnant women, blood donors, and TB patients show that the HIV infection is expanding rapidly.
2.20          The highest seropositive rates are found among pregnant women and blood donors
of N'djamena and Moundou (thc most important urban center of the south) where rates have
practically doubled between 1991 and 1993. The numbers are particularly alarming since these
groups are considered as being at relatively low risk. Using rates observed in sentinel sites, the
National Program for AIDS Control (PNLS) estimates that in 1994 a total of 106,700 persons of
all ages were infected (see Table 1, page 10). Among the adult population, the prevalence is
estimated at 3%. It is highest in the south-west of the country and decreases gradually to reach its
lowest in the north-eastern regions. The annual incidence of AIDS has increased from 10 in 1989
to 1,268 in 1994 and the total number of reported AIDS cases in 1994 was 2,856. In 1993, about
88% of AIDS cases have been diagnosed in N'djamena and Moundou. WHO's Epimodel shows
that the estimated number of AIDS cases in 1993 was 2,815, which means that about one in three
cases is diagnosed. The Epimodel demonstrates at the same timc that, given the observed speed of
infection, an estimated 24,000 to 28,000 persons were contaminated annually during the last few
years.
2.21          The HIV I is the only HIV virus reported and the predominant transmission is
heterosexual. Furthermore, the ratio of males to females among reported AIDS cases is equal to
one. While there is no precise information on the prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases
(STDs), the MOPH reported in 1993 11,713 cases of genital ulcerations in men and women and
16,477 cases of gonorrhea among men. Assuming that the genital ulccrations cases represent about
5% of all STDs, it is estimated that the prevalence of STDs in 1993 was about 234,000 cases. This
level of prevalence helps to explain the relatively low fertility rate in Chad compared to other SSA
countries and increases significantly the probability of being infected during sexual intercourse
with a seropositive person.
2.22          Public recognition of the importance of the AIDS epidemic in Chad is recent and
so are programs to control the spread of the disease. The Govenmment established in 1988 the
National AIDS Committee (Comite National de Lutte contre le SIDA, CNLS), a multi-sectoral
body of six ministers chaired by the Minister of Health, with the task of overseeing all AIDS
control activities in the country.  All strategies and interventions are the responsibility of a



7
Technical Committee for AIDS control chaired by the Director General of Health (CTLS). Day-to-
day implementation and follow-up of AIDS activities are entrusted to a unit of the MOPH, the
National Program of AIDS Control (le l'rogramme National de Lutte contre le SIDA, PNLS),
which reports directly to the Directorate General of Health. In addition, a committee comprising
nationals as well as donors' representatives has been created recently to coordinate external aid.
Surveillance and IEC activities started in 1988 with the launching of the short-term plan for 1988-
89. This was followed by the first Medium-Term Plan, 1990-93 (MTP 1) for AIDS control.
2.23          HIV/AIDS programs have received some assistance from  the intemational
community. The MTP I received US$4.3 million equivalent, mainly from WVO, UNDP, USAID,
France, and the European Union. Thcse contributions have allowed the start-up of the PNLS, the
financing of long-term technical assistance and a number of surveillance activities. Furthermore,
dozens of personnel have been trained in the prevention of HIV sexual transmission: laboratory
technicians, staff from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Social and Women's Affairs, and
the Ministry of Communication This support has also helped launch IEC activities aimed at the
general public, prostitutes. the young population groups, as well as the military.  These
interventions have been undertaken mainly by NGOs and the Ministries of Defense, Education, and
Culture. However, other activities that arc essential for the prevention of HIV sexual transmission,
such as formal sexual education in schools, interpersonal communication in health centers, the
promotion of condoms, and particularly the control of STDs, have not been developed to the extent
required by the seriousness of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The present financial constraints of the
PNLS do not allow it to face all these needs.
2.24          The second Medium-Term Plan (MTP 2) (1995-1999), which involved in its
development, during a National Consensus Workshop (Atelier de consensus national), seven
Ministries, eight NGOs, the Chadian radio and press, as well as bilateral and multilateral aid
organizations, addresses the abovc constraints. It is heavily weighted towards prevention activities.
The important aspect of treatment of STDs is an integral part of the minimum package of activities
and is supported by the Health and Safe Motherhood project as well as other donor-funded projects
described in the Staff Appraisal Report of that project.
Issues Affecting HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Activities
2.25          Limited Awareness of the Seriousness of the Situation. In spite of the rapid
increase in HIV seroprevalence at the sentinel sites and the quintupling of the reported annual
incidence of AIDS during the last five years, Chad's political authorities do not seem to appreciate
the magnitude and gravity of the problem. While there is a document on the national policy for
AIDS control which dates back to 1989, it was not updated until recently with the adoption of the
second Medium Term Plan (MTP 2) (see para 2.48). It is essential that the political authorities be
well-informed of the observed trend of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, of the socio-economic and
individual determining factors, as well as of the future perspective of the impact of AIDS in the
event that effective preventive measures are not taken. Increasing awareness of politicians should
guarantee support and commitment of various ministries and government organizations in
HIV/AIDS prevention, and the allocation of specific budgets for such activities.
2.26          Insufficient Awareness of Individual Risk Behavior. The only AIDS Knowledge,
Attitude, and Practice (KAP) study undertaken in Chad dates back to 1989 and shows that 50% of
all adults interviewed in urban settings had a satisfactory knowledge of HIV transmission modes.
Less than 20% estimated that their behavior put them at high risk of infection, and only 5% of
women and 9% of men mentioned condoms as a means of prevention. IEC activities through mass



8
media -- formal or informal organizations -- and interpersonal communication activities are
extremely limited and have been ineffective so far for technical and financial reasons that the
project will address.
2.27          During the National Consensus Workshop held to prepare the MTP 2, national
experts estimated that a total of 415,000 Chadians would be at high risk of HIV/AIDS infection
through sexual transmission. This figure represents 0.3% of all children (0-14 years), 13% of
teen-agers (15-19 years), 13% of adults (20-49 years), and 3% of all persons aged 50 years or
more. To prevent about 27-29,000 new infections per year, IEC activities have to focus on those
high-risk groups.
2.28          At present, IEC activities are not developed systematically and are limited.
Activities promoted by the PNLS are focused more on increasing awareness about the illness than
on educating the public in self-protection. More effort is needed to promote four types of IEC
contacts; (i) informative contact through mass media as well as health personnel, (ii) targeted
educational contact through the educational system -- public as well as religious -- and families;
(iii) interpersonal educational contact through peer communication; and (iv) contact through the
social marketing program. Involvement of the NGO Liaison Group -- the CILONG -- should help
b'ring about such contacts. Priority target groups should be the young, the military, prisoners,
prostitutes and their partners, truck drivers, and migrant groups, particularly along the main roads
leading to Cameroon and Nigeria. All these IEC contacts should be promoted to change the
behavior of the 415,000 Chadians who are at high risk of HIV infection.
2.29          Coordination of IEC activities has been the responsibility of the technical IEC
sub-commnittee of the CTLS. However, this structure has never been operational and the PNLS
has acted as an implementing rather than a coordinating unit. Through the Health and Safe
Motherhood project the Government has begun to strengthen the IEC Division at the MOPH to
enable it to carry out a well-defined role of planning, coordination, conceptualization, and
supervision/control of quality.  This division would provide technical assistance and collaborate
closely with the CTLS IEC sub-committee that would become operational through the present
project.
2.30          Unfavorable Socio-Economic Determinants. Sexual transmission of HIV infection
is responsible for 97%  of reported AIDS cases.  Multiple partners, lack of education and
information, and difficult access to condoms are the individual determinants. However, poverty,
aggravated by economic crisis and successive droughts following the armed conflicts of the last
decade, is responsible for the important migratory movements to urban areas as well as to
neighboring coastal countries. Such movements are evident in the 1993 population census: in
northern Saharan zones, the male to female ratio is 80%, while the average in the country is about
93% and that of N'djamena is more than 118%. Commercial sexual activities are well developed
along the road axes of N'djamena/Kelo/Moundou that lead to the main economic partners of Chad -
- Caneroon and Nigeria. Clearly, the prevention strategy should take into consideration the socio-
economic factors that reinforce individual behavioral factors.
2.31          Absence of Systematic Control of STDs. The prevalence of STDs in 1993 was
estimated at 234,000 cases or 6% among the adult population. Early diagnosis and treatment of
these problems are expected to decrease the probability of HIV infection to between one-sixth and
one-tenth of its present level. This medical contact would supplement the IEC contacts mentioned
in para 2.28 to cover all persons at high risk. Yet, the PNLS had not examined this aspect
systematically in its MTP 1.



9
2.32          Limited Access to Condoms. The promotion of condom use is a key strategic
approach to AIDS/STDs prevention. At present, there is no program to promotc the social
marketing of condoms. These are distributed free of charge by: (i) the MOPH health facilities
through the PNLS and the MCH/FP programs supported by WHO, USAID, and UNFPA  and (ii)
private pharmacies and pharmaccutical stores who sell them. It is important to note that health
facilities cover less than 60% of the population (half of this population lives more than 7 miles
from a health center) and that private pharmacies and pharmaceutical stores operate only in urban
areas. In the last four years, the PNLS has distributed only 1.8 million condoms, i.e., one per
person at high risk per year. During 1992-1993, the private sector sold onlv' about 12,000
condoms. It is clear that the needs of the 415,000 persons at high risk are not met. According a
recent study in Cameroon, an average of 20 condoms a year are needed to protect a sexually active
urban male from infection through non-marital sex. Using the same assumption for Chad, the total
annual need for condoms would be estimated at 9 million.
2.33          High Vulnerability of Women to HIV Infection. Women often have a higher
illiteracy rate, and more limited mobility than men. These factors make them less informed than
men (less than 50% of women who participated in the KAP study had a good understanding of
HIV transmission against 80% of the men) and, as a result, more vulnerable to HIV infection. In
addition, they are often poorer than men and economically dependent. As a consequence, some
become providers of commercial sex and increase their exposure to HIV; thev often feel powerless
to negotiate protected sexual practices because they may be afraid to lose their partners or
customers. This imbalance in power is very costly to women: During the National Consensus
Workshop, participants acknowledged that the main determinant of HIV infection among women is
the promiscuity of their partners.
2.34          As is the case with other STDs, women with HIV infection are typically younger
than men when they develop AIDS, reflecting the typical age-gender distribution of sexually
transmitted diseases. It is estimated that the prevalence of HIV infection among pregnant women
varies between 0.2 and 7.9%. With 8,000 women infected annually, about 2,000 to 3,000 mothers
are likely to infect their babies each year. The PNLS estimates that in 1994 more than 40.000
women are already infected. All these issues and statistics show that providing information about
the connection between HIV/AIDS/STDs and reproduction, particularly to women, is an urgent
priority. In addition to integrating HIV/STDs prevention into MCH/FP services, stress should be
placed on mobilizing women's groups, e.g. through the Ministry of Social and Womcn's Affairs.
2.35          Weak Institutional Capacity.  AIDS control activities are coordinated and
managed by the four organizational units described in para 2.22; there are official texts defining
the mandate of each unit. Yet, their participation was irregular during the MTP I and almost non-
existent for the last year, particularly during the preparation of the MTP 2. A restructuring and
redynamization of these units are essential in order to guarantee the viability and the feasibility of
multi-sectoral AIDS control interventions.
2.36          According to the Government's health policy, preventive and curativc health
services provided by MOPH facilities for the purpose of AIDS control are an integral part of the
"Basic Package of Services" (Paquet minimum d'activites - PMA) for every level of care. Such
services include the diagnosis and treatment of STDs, safe blood transfusion, sterile supplies,
information,  interpersonal communication and counseling, and epidemiological surveillance.
However, they are constrained by an insufficient number of qualified and motivated personnel,
limited health coverage, and a severe lack of drugs and other recurrent inputs. In 1992, there were



l0
146 physicians in thc public health sector (1/40,000 inhabitants), and 1,208 qualified pcrsonnel of
all kinds (1/4.700 inhabitants). The majority of physicians are in N'djamena. Health coverage is
provided by 33 hospitals and 229 health centers, 30% of which are in bad physical condition
rcsulting in very low utilization rates, particularly among pregnant women.  Hcalth pcrsonnel
strikcs havc worscned the situation and have made health care even less accessible.
2.37          Legal and Ethical Issues. The development and control of the AIDS epidemic is
complicatcd by legal and ethical issues due particularly to the social stigma conveyed by this
illncss. They arc: patient notification of the results of the HIV test; confidentiality of rcsults to
protect the rights of infccted individuals; the right of society to be protected from infected
individuals, the right of infected individuals to have access to health services; job protcction for
those declared scropositive; protection of health personnel exposed to HIV-infectcd persons, and
the care of pcrsons diagnosed with AIDS. Of particular relevance to women are issues related to
prostitution, voluntary intcrruption of pregnancy, and partner notification.  An ethics sub-
committce of the CTLS is preparing a set of recommendations on thcse issucs taking into
considcration the social, cultural, and religious constraints of the country.
2.38          Impact on Health and Social Services. In the absence of cffcctive prevcntive
mcasures, and cxtrapolating the observed trend of the AIDS epidemic, the HIV prevalcnce rate
among thc adult population will increasc from 2.9% in 1994 to 5% in 1999. Tablc I below shows
the cxpccted cvolution of the epidemic indicators between 1994 to 1999 in this scenario.
Table 1: Expected Evolution of the AIDS Epidemic Indicators, 1994-1999
1994            1999
HIV infccted adults                                     106,700       211,500
New adult AIDS cases per year                            3,400         12.000
AIDS-related adult deaths per year                        2,800         11,1(0
HIV infected children                                     4,800         15,000
Ncw child AIDS cascs per year                              700           480()0
AIDS-rclated child dcaths per year                         690           4.800
Number of childrcn who havc lost their mother to AIDS     5,000        45.000
2 39'          This largc increase in AIDS patients would place a considerable strain on services
that are already undcrfunded and lack resources. At present, the number of hospital beds is 3.954.
Bascd on the estimatcd number of newv AIDS cases annually, it is estimated that the numbcr of
adult and pcdiatric cascs of AIDS cases that must be taken care of each year Will go from about
5.70(0 to 22,000 cascs in 1999. This would translate into an increase from 295.000 hospital days
in 1994 to 1.150,000 in 1999. AIDS patients would occupy 3,150 beds. Their annual costs of
drugs alone arc estimated to reach US$6 million in 1999. Even with a substantial contribution of
communities and a considerable increasc in international help, the national hcalth system will be
unablc to copc with the increased dcmand.
2.40          The AIDS cpidcmic will lead to a substantial increase in the number of orphans in
the coming years. Given the number of seropositive adults, it is estimated that the cumulative
number of adult deaths will reach 43,700 in 1999, thus affecting at least 21,000 families and
rcsulting in 45,000 orphans. Public sector social services have too few resources and are too weak
to bc able to deal with the social problems created by AIDS. There is a need to promote



II
community-based interventions to reduce the impact of AIDS on affected individuals, families and
communities.
2.41           Economic Impact of AIDS. AIDS has a more severe economic impact than other
prevalcnt diseases, because it is fatal, it affects primarily adults in their economically most
productive years, it strikes both the wealthy and the poor, and it is not limited to any geographical
area. No assessment of the micro- or macroeconomic impact of AIDS has been undertaken in
Chad. However, reports from other parts of SSA2 show that the economic impacts of the discase
are considerable.  Analysis of the microeconomic impact shows that AIDS morbidity and
mortalitv shock the resource endowment of households by reducing the available human capital of
the household (education, health), and possibly even rcsulting in the loss of land, housing or other
physical assets. Households respond in their decisions: for example, they may spend more time
caring for the AIDS patient, more time working, but less time in school. The combination of shock
and response results in certain outcomes in terms of measures of well-being: lowcr health status,
lower educational attainment, and lower consumption per capita for members of the household.
With respect to individual firms, AIDS can have the following economic impact: increased sick
leave and absentceism, lower productivity, higher worker turnovcr, loss of highly skilled managers,
increased training costs, and increased expenditures on health and death benefits. With respect to
the macroeconomic impact of AIDS on the country's economy, studies have shown that in
countries wvith the most advanced epidemics, there is a reduction of about a third of a percentage
point in the rate of grovth of per capita GDP. In a country like Chad which is struggling to escape
declines in per capita income, this is a substantial burden.
E. Government Strategy
1. Population and FP Strategy
2 42           Until recently, population growth was not seen by the Government as a major
issuc in development. However, this attitude is rapidly changing in the facc of deteriorating
socioeconomic conditions.  The Conference Nationale Souveramne (('N,), which lastcd from
January to April 1993, exprcssed a strong interest in the interrelationships betwvcen population and
development and between population growth and family welfare. It asked the Government to
support associations that work for the promotion of women and to put in place an integrated IEC
system dealing particularly with women's rights. Government was also asked to deal with the
following issues: family welfare, contraception, vital registration systems, development of a family
code, family cducation, and the census of Chadians abroad.
2.43          The Government's commitment to addressing population issues is noxw clearly
expresscd in the Declaration of Population Policy (DPP) which was adoptcd by its supreme body,
the Conscil Supcrieur de Transition (CST) on May 18, 1994 and signed on July 22, 1994 (a copy
of the law is in the projcct file). The DPP spells out the Government's priorities and strategies in
population and FP wvhich specifically aim to: (a) provide broader access to basic serviccs in health,
nutrition, education, etc. (b) improve coverage and access to health facilities, (c) decrease
population growth from 2.5% per year now to 2% in the year 2005; (d) strengthen people's
comprehension of the interrelationships between population and development; (e) promote women's
2Ains%vorth, Martha and Over, Mead. The economic impact of AIDS: shocks, responses, and outcomes. The World
13ank, Africa Technical Department. June 1992
Over, Mead. 'I'he macroeconomic impact of AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa. The World Bank, 'I'echnical Working
Plaper No. 3, Africa Technical Department. June 1992



12
rights; (f) promote and ensure the rights and well-being of children and the young, (g) increase
women's participation in development; (h) promotc the social status of women- and (i) expand
MCH/FP delivery to all levels of the health pyramid. Anncx 2-3 summarizes the objectives of the
DPP and provides a matrix of planned activitics with performance indicators.
2.44           Expanding FP Services. The Government proposes a three-pronged approach to
expanding FP services: (i) improve coverage of FP serviccs by putting in place the basic
infrastructure and qualified personnel- (ii) integrate MCHJFP services into the Basic Package of
Activities; and (iii) increase communitv participation. The Government's decision to address FP
through a broader program of maternal and child health will facilitate receptivity to the use of
modern contraceptive methods and ensure better targcting of thosc in most need of the services.
Donors are assisting Government in implementing this strategy through projects that, likc the IDA-
financed Health and Safe Motherhood project, focus on improving covcrage of health facilities with
provision of an integrated package of health services, training of hcalth personnel, and improving
community participation.
2.45           While the Government's decision to addrcss FP through the broader MCH
program has significant benefits, it does not reach sevcral target groups, namely men, tcenagers,
and single women who rarely use the public health system In order to reach those groups, the
Government has decided to supply contraceptives through a "social marketing" program to be
financed under this project (paras 3.23-3.28). It has also approvcd the establishment in January
1992 of the Association 7chadienne du Bien-I<tre I'iJmilizo/ (ASTBEF), an affiliate of the
International Planned Parenthood Federation. The projcct would provide furthcr assistancc to the
development of FP initiatives by local NGOs and the private scctor.
2.46           Strenthening IEC Activities. There are two aspccts of the Government's strategy
with respect to IEC. The first deals with information and cducation on FP, safe motherhood
practices, AIDS/STDs prevention , nutrition, and improving women's status, all within the public
health system. IDA is assisting Govcrnment in implcmcnting this strategy through the Hcalth and
Safe Motherhood project (para. 2.17). The second aspect focuses on increasing awarencss of
population issues, particularlv among political and religious Icaders. The Government's strategy in
this area calls for an all out effort to: (i) carry out KAP studics that will guide IEC activities; (ii)
create a national capacity for planning, developing, and implcmenting IEC programs in population;
(iii) increase the involvement of the national as wvell as the private press in population awareness
activities; and (iv) target specific groups such as the young, traditional or national leaders, etc.
The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing the second aspect of its
strategy.
2. HIV/AIDS/STDs Strategy
2.47          The Government's strategy for AIDS control is fully described in the MTP 2
(1994-1999) for AIDS control which was officially adopted by a decrec signed by the Prime
Minister on August 10, 1994 (a copy of the decree is in the project file). It is heavily focused on
multi-sectoral interventions undertaken by the different ministries and national and international
NGOs. The degree to which a ministry is involved depends to a large extent on the nature of the
activity and the target groups: the MOPH continues to play the rolc of "chef de filc".
2.48          Two priorities for AIDS/STDs control arc identified in the MTP 2: (i) the
prevention of sexual transmission of HIV; and (ii) intersectoral mobilization to reduce the impact
of AIDS on the socio-health status of affected individuals, families, and communities. The MTP 2



13
has also identified two priority target groups: (i) teenagers in urban and suburban areas,
particularly those who are not in school; it is estimated that annually the PNLS should deliver
educational and preventive contacts to about 90,000 teenagers; and (ii) adults in urban areas,
particularly along the economic and transport axes.  About 13% of non-infected adults, i.e.,
300,000 Chadians between the ages of 20 and 49 years, and another 20.000, aged 50 years or
more, should benefit from educational and preventive interventions. Migrants from rural to urban
areas and to Cameroon and Nigeria are among the vulnerable groups. Other priority target socio-
professional groups are: persons with an STDs infection, pregnant women who are seropositive,
prostitutes, young girls (10-14 years), students, seasonal workers, health personnel, military, and
truck drivers.
2.49          The MTP 2 is based on seven priority strategies: (i) prevent sexual transmission
of HIV; (ii) prevent HIV transmission through blood transfusion or contamination, (iii) prevent
prenatal HIV transmission, (iv) reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on health; (v) reduce the social
impact of AIDS on persons and families affected by the disease, (vi) reduce the impact of the
AIDS epidemic on public expenditures, particularly on public health expenditures; and (vii)
alleviate poverty. For each of the above-mentioned strategies, the Government has designed a
time-bound plan of action with a detailed description of interventions at an estimated cost of US$9
million (which does not include the activities funded through the FOSAP and the social marketing
program), as well as progress indicators which will bc reviewed and, if necessary, revised once the
data of the baseline study, which will be carried out at the beginning of the project, will be
available.   The plan is expected to be revised annually. Annex 2-4 provides a summary of
strategies and impact as well as performance indicators.
F. The Bank Group's Role
2.50          Lessons from Proiect Experience in Chad. The proposed project would be the
Bank's second free-standing intervention in the health and population sectors in Chad and the first
in the specific area of HIV/AIDS control. IDA's first free-standing Health and Safc Motherhood
Project, that includes a component which provides assistance to family planning serviccs, having
become effective February 24, 1995 cannot yet provide lessons (para 2-15).
2.51          Several lessons have, however, been learned from the Social Action Development
project (PADS) which has a health component that aims at improving health and living conditions
of disadvantaged groups in N'djamena and, to a limited extent, the Tandjile prefecture. The PADS
became effective April 17, 1991, and is scheduled to close June 30, 1996. Operationally, the
project has been successful as a pilot test in studying cost-recovery schemes and sensitizing the
population to the importance of community participation and cost-sharing. The health component
has experienced difficulties mainly in the design of civil works, lack of adequate supervision, and
procurement delays. The PADS, along with other projects in Africa, offers several relcvant lessons
pertaining to project implementation and supervision. One lesson pertains to the insufficient
capacity of the concerned Government agencies to carry out ambitious projects. In the case of the
PADS, weak managerial capacity led to serious start-up delays. The proposed project would
address such deficiencies by: (a) putting training and building the capacity of the project
coordination team (PCT) at center stage; (b) using NGOs and the private sector; and (c) frequent
supervision. Another lesson is that start-up is slowed by difficulties with the preparation of
bidding documents at the time project activities start. The present project proposes to remedy this
problem, as was done in the Health and Safe Motherhood project, by having as a condition of
effectiveness of the credit, the preparation of bidding documents acceptable to IDA and by
ensuring that the procurement specialist is employed as a condition of effectiveness and trained



14
early in the projcct A third lesson is that policy refonns need to be addressed up front, prior to
negotiations. In the casc of the proposcd project, the Government has: (i) developed and adopted
by lawv a Dcclaration of Population Policy and a detailed plan of action; (1i) legalized the practice
of contraception and the import of contraccptivc products, and (iii) adopted the MTP 2 for AIDS
control. Another lesson is that it is important to involve all concerned in order to have ownership
of the project. During the preparation of the proposed projcct, the population policy wvas prepared
by groups represcnting all parties involved, the MTP 2 for AIDS control was developed in a
National Conscnsus Workshop. and awareness scminars on population issues were held for the
membcrs of the Consel Sup9rwunr clc Transition bcforc the draft policy was presented to them for
adoption as lawv  Finally, the PADS, likc many Sahclian projects, showed that, to improve
utilization rates of cxisting hcaltl infrastructurc, the quality of serviccs nceds to improve.  A
beneficiary assessmcnt conductcd during the preparation of the Health and Safe Motherhood
project revcaled that rudc belhavior of hcalth personncl and lack of drugs were the major reasons
why wvomen did not UsC health facilities. An intcnsive rctraining program (in health practices and
intcrpcrsonal communication) for hcalth pcrsonnel wNill bc implemented under that project and a
Ccntral Ptirchasing Agency will cnsure the availability of affordable drugs. The proposed project
depends largely on the successful imiplenmentation of thcsc activitics. A Icsson learned during the
preparation of the Hcalth and Safc Mothcrhood project is that projcct coordinators can assist and
lcarn from each othcr. The preparation of the Health and Safc Motherhood project bcing financed
by the PADS, the projcct coordinator learned from the PADS coordinator and is now familiar with
Bank procedurcs. He has bccn clecouragcd (succcssfully) to assist the coordinator of the proposed
projcct in prcparation activities
2.52           Lcssons from Pro ect Expcrience Elsewherc. In addition to the lcssons mentioned
above. Bank-financed population and AIDS control projects implemented worldwide offer several
lessons. In population, OED reports suggest that (i) in countries with scarce resources and which
are just bcginning to addrcss population issucs, a simplc and focused approach is morc likely to be
successfill. (ii) it is important to ensurc and maintain an official commitment to population and FP;
and (iii) cfforts in FP should bc accompanied by efforts to reducc the demand for children through
reducing child mortality and increasing wvomcn's carning capacity. With respect to AIDS/STDs,
the followiNng Icssons arc significant: (i) the impact of intervcntions is higher in early stages of the
epidcmic than at a latcr stagc (ii) large-scale condom promotion and marketing have resulted in
large incrcases in condom usc: and (iii) NGOs can plav a significant role in AIDS/STDs control
efforts particularly in rcachinig high risk groups. All thcse lessons have to a largc extent guided the
development of the proposed projcct
2.53           Rationale for IDA Involvement. DA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Chad was presentcd to the Executivc Directors on May 25, 1993 in the Memorandum of the
President for the Fifth Education Project. It supports the objectives of alleviating poverty and
improving the prospects for long-term groxvth and cmphasizcs human resources development. The
proposed project is a central part of this CAS and is fully consistent xvith the criteria for activities
to be supported. It addrcsses both basic poverty issucs and the prospects for long-term per capita
income growth. It does this through efforts to control AIDS, which affects especially the most
productive age-groups and brings widcsprcad misery to families (particularly orphans), and
through attempts to slow population growvth.
2.54           The Bank has bccn a key partncr in the developmcnt of major reforms in the health
sector through the preparation of the Health and Safe Motherhood project and the dialogue that led
to the adoption of the population policyv It has also playcd a ke) catalytic role in the preparation



15
of the AIDS/STDs MTP 2 and its official adoption. This project would provide a framework for
enhanced donor coordination in the population sector and in the fight against AIDS/STDs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Scope
3.1           The project would assist the Government in implementing its long-term strategy in
population and FP (para 2.43) and its medium-term plan 1995-1999 (MTP 2) for AIDS control
(para 2.48). Its overall objectives are to advance the onset of fertility decline by increasing the use
of modern methods of contraception, and slowv the spread of HIV infection by promoting
behavioral change. To attain these objectives, the project would support policies and investments
designed to: (a) reinforce the national capacity to implement the national population policy; (b)
strengthen the national capacitv to contain the spread of HIV/AIDS/STDs, (c) put in place a social
marketing program for the promotion of condom use, and (d) promote the participation of the
private sector and NGOs in population. FP, and HIV/AIDS/STDs programs.
B. Project Description
PROJECT COMPONENTS
1. Reinforcing the national capacity to implement the population policy (US$8.0 million):
(a) Strengthening the national capacity to undertake population-related activities
(b) Implementing a community awvareness program and dissemination of the population policy
(c) Supporting population-related rcsearch
2. Strengthening the national capacity to contain the spread of HIV/AIDS/STDs (US$6.6 million):
(a) Institutional strengthening of the MOPH
(b) Supporting epidemiological. opcrational, and socio-cconomic research
3. Putting in place a social marketing program for the promotion of condom use (US$7.1 million)
4. Promoting the participation of the private sector and NGOs in population, FP, and
HIV/AIDS/STDs programs (USS5.5 million)
3.2           The activities the project would support are described below:
1.     Reinforcing the national capacity to implement the population
policy (US$8.0 million)
3.3           This component contributes to the Government's objectives of implementing the
national population policy and its plan of action.  There are three sub-components: (a)
strengthening the national capacity to undertake population-related activities; (b) implementing a
community awareness program and dissemination of the population policy, and (c) supporting
population-related research.



16
a. Strengthening national capacity to undertake population-related
activities (US$4.2 million).3
3.4           Scope and Objective.  The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen
institutional capacity at the MOPC to: (a) disseminate and coordinate the implementation of the
government population policy; (b) plan, manage, and evaluate population-related activities; and (c)
plan, coordinate, and implement donor-financed projects. Integrating demographic variables into
sector plans is an essential element of effective development planning; however, the limited
knowledge in the sectoral ministries of the importance and use of demographic data has prevented
this from happening hitherto. The project would strengthen the capacity of the planning units in
key ministries in the application of demographic data in their sectoral plans.
3.5           Background.  The Government has undertaken a broad consensus-building
exercise around the population issue and has established an interministerial commission (CNPRH)
to monitor the overall process of developing, implementing and evaluating its population policy.
During project preparation, nine national groups, each focusing on a specific theme, worked on the
elaboration of a national population policy with technical assistance from the Center for Research
on Population and Development (CERPOD), a Sahelian institution of the Comite inter-4tats de
lutte contre la secheresse dans le Sahel (CILSS). A Declaration of Population Policy, which
synthesizes the results and recommendations of the working groups, was adopted by the
Government on May 18, 1994 and signed on July 22, 1994 (para 2.43- a copy of the decree is in
the project file) after being extensively discussed at various levels. The 1920 law prohibiting the
importation, distribution, and use of contraceptives was abrogated in 1993. Following adoption of
the population policy, the Government has transmitted to IDA a multi-year action plan with a
timetable of activities and a set of performance and impact indicators that were discussed during
appraisal and were adopted by the Government in February 1995.
3.6           Strengthening the Division of Population and Human Resources. The CNPRH is
assisted by the newly created Division of Population of the Directorate of Planning at the MOPC,
which also acts as its secretariat. The Division is responsible for the implementation of the
population policy and the multi-year action plan. It will be assisted by the CERPOD which would
enter into a twinning arrangement with the Government, thus providing non-resident consultant
services. A draft contract between the Government and CERPOD was discussed during appraisal,
it was finalized during negotiations and the signed contract, satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition of effectiveness. Furthermore, the Government has strengthened the Division by
assigning to it the following key staff: the Division head, a demographer, a statistician, and a
sociologist. The Government gave assurances that the Division would remain fully staffed at all
times and the key staff would not be replaced without IDA's consent.
3.7           Project Support. The project would finance: (i) logistical support, including
computers and other office equipment; office furniture and supplies; audio-visual equipment, 3
vehicles, of which two 4x4, 5 motorcycles and three mopeds, as well as operations and
maintenance; (ii) rehabilitation of a building that would accommodate the Division of Population;
(iii) 11 person-months of short-term international specialist services for further analysis of census
data, the design and implementation of training programs, and the design and formulation of
priority action programs in population (contract with CERPOD), and 8 person-months of short-
term international specialist services in IEC; (iv) local contractual personnel: a demographer, a
3This amount includes US$1.9 million for strengthening the capacity for project coordination (paras 4.34.6)



17
communicator, and a documentalist, (v) in-country training workshops for the staff of the Division
of Population, DSEED. and central-level planners of key sectoral ministries; (vi) short-term
training abroad in applied demography and statistical analysis for up to four professionals. All
training to be supported under the project is described in Annex 3-1; (vii) participation in regional
and international conferences on population and women in development, and (viii) a study tour of
successful population programs in othcr Francophone countries.
b. Implementing a community awareness program and dissemination of the
population policy (US$3.1 million)
3.8           Scope and Objective.  The objective of this sub-component is to promote
awareness of the relationship between population and development by disseminating the
Declaration of Population Policy. Among the identified target groups are opinion and religious
leaders, women, NGOs, reporters, the young (ages 12-25 years), and members of specific trade
unions and associations.
3.9           Background.  In the Chadian context, increasing community awareness of
population issues takes on particular importance because of the high illiteracy rate and the low
school enrollment rate of girls as xwell as the lowv social status of women. Thcrefore, it is important
to develop target-oriented innovative approaches and use mass media in addition to interpersonal
communication.  With donors' support, the Government has initiated several activities geared
towards improving communication on population issues such as the P'rogramme de Pormation et
d'Information sur l'Environnement (PI'ir) supported by the European Union, and the UNFPA-
funded school project on Education, Family Life, and Population. Similarly, several NGOs have
been investing in population-related IEC activities. UNFPA is financing the development of a
Family Code. It played a kcy role in the process of developing the population policv by providing
guidance and technical expertise. it has also financed a number of seminars to increase the
awareness of politicians and the general public of population issues. This approach, geared
particularly towards the politicians, has resulted in a smooth adoption of the population policy by
the Government Throughout project implementation, UNFPA will continue to provide technical
assistance to the Division of Population, and will cofinance population-related activitics such as
seminars targeted to wvomen, NGOs. rcporters, the Chadian administration (prefets, responsables
adminislratil.s) local associations, trade unions, associations, opinion leaders, and religious
leaders.
3.10          Successful promotion of FP activities depends to a large extent on the credibility
of MCH services being offered in health facilities and their ability to attract potential users of
contraceptives. As mentioned in para 2.15, the Health and Safe Motherhood project will address
the issue of access to health and FP services. However, it does not finance contraceptives (para
2.17). The MCH program at the MOPH has estimated contraceptive needs for the 1996-2000
period, based on the target contraceptive prevalence rates set and the mix of contraceptive methods
envisaged. The contraceptives needcd for the duration of the project are estimated to cost US$3.0
million and Nwill be financed by IDA through this project. The project coordination team would
receive technical assistance for the procurement of contraceptives from UNFPA in the first year of
the project. Starting the second year, contraceptives would be procured through the Central
Purchasing Agency which is being established through the Health and Safe Motherhood project.
3.11          Proiect Support. The project would finance: (a) IEC activities (about US$0.2
million), and (b) contraceptives for the MOPH MCH program(about US$3.0 million). The IEC
activities are aimed at large audiences to disseminate the DPP and to address topics such as census



18
results, a demographic and health survey, and the family code.  In addition, the project would
finance monthly radio and TV programs providing information on the DPP.  The costs of
maintenance and operation of equipment, are financed under the institutional strengthening sub-
component.
c. Supporting population-related research (US$0.7 million)
3.12          Scope and Objcctive.  The objective of this sub-component is to assist the
Government in putting in place a national strategy to collect and analyze basic demographic data to
improve knowledge of relevant socio-demographic indicators in Chad. More spccifically, the
project would assist in elaborating and conducting applied rescarch studies, the rcsults of which
would be used in the operationalization of the population policy and message developmcnt for IEC.
3.13          Background. Like many African countries, Chad is confronted with the problem
of lack of demographic statistics and has consequently included in its DPP a national strategy for
the collection and analysis of demographic information. With the support of donors, particularly
UNFPA, the first population census to be conducted in Chad was completed in May 1993, and
preliminary results were made available in July 1994. UNFPA is also rcinforcing the vital
registration system and is providing support to the Statistics Directorate at the MOPC in order to
improve the quality of data obtained and ensure an adequate information base for planning.
3.14          Proiect Support. The project would financc a program of applied studies on
urbanization and migration. It would also finance secondary analyses of the 1993 ccnsus data and
a 1995 demographic and health survey (DHS). With the help of CERPOD, the Govcrnmcnt has
prepared draft terms of reference for the studies that were discussed and approved during
appraisal.
2.     Strengthening the national capacity to contain the spread of HIlV/AIDS/STDs
(US$6.6 million)
3.15          This component aims to strengthen Chad's capacity to rcspond to the HIV
epidemic by reducing HIV transmission through a massive cffort to promote behavioral change,
reduce the prevalence of STDs, and mitigate the impact of AIDS on individuals, families and the
community. This objective would be achieved partly through: (a) institutional strengthcning and
capacity building; and (b) supporting epidemiological, operational, and socio-economic research.
Additional means required to contain the spread of AIDS include: (i) treating STDs. (ii) cnsuring
blood safety; (iii) promoting the use of condoms, and (iv) supporting multi-sectoral activitics for
the prevention, and the reduction of the social impact of, AIDS. The projcct would provide
minimal support for the treatment of STDs and blood safety, as these have bccn addrcssed by the
Health and Safe Motherhood project.  Instead, it would provide significant support for the
promotion of condom use which is considered an important vehicle for HIV prevcntion and family
planning. Consequently, the promotion of condom use is addressed in a separate component (paras
3.23-3.28). Similarly, support for AIDS-related activities in various sectors of a range of agencies
is discussed as a sub-component of the FOSAP (paras 3.29-3.34).
a.    Institutional strengthening of the MOPH (US$2.9 million)
3.16          Scope and Objectives. This sub-component aims at: (i) strengthening the capacity
of the PNLS to manage and coordinate the AIDS control program; (ii) reinforcing the capacity of



19
the MOPH in epidemiological survcillancc and operational research, and (iii) strengthening MOPH
capacity to coordinate multi-sectoral AIDS-related activities.
3.17          Background. The currcnt management and coordination capacity of the PNLS
constitutcs a major constraint to sound implementation of the multi-sectoral interventions needed to
address the HIV/AIDS problem. In addition to the MOPH, five ministries have been identified to
plav leading rolcs in the implementation of these interventions. As the secretariat of the National
AIDS Commnittee (CNLS) and the overall coordinator of the AIDS control program, the PNLS has
a leading responsibility in coordinating the adequate implementation of this program. However,
neithcr of its operationnal arms -- the CNLS and the CTLS -- has been fully operational during the
MTP 1. The CTLS, in particular. needed to be restructured to include representatives of agencies
and NGOs involved in the implcmentation of the MTP 2. The Government agreed to revise the
composition and mandate of the CNLS and that of the CTLS. A draft text was discussed during
appraisal and was adopted officially in February 1995. Within the public sector, while MOPH is
responsiblc for the largest numbcr of interventions, and for the coordination of AIDS-related
activities, five other key-ministries arc also expectcd to play a significant role. In order for these
ministrics to bc able to carry out AIDS control activities, the Government has allocated in their
budget a separate budgetary item and has agreed that it would maintain this item in future. In
addition, during the preparation of the MTP2, it wvas decided that a certain time period would be
reserved by the Ministry of Communication -- one of the key-ministries -- for radio/televised
messagcs on AIDS/STDs prevention. An agreement to this effect between MOPH and the
Ministrv of Communication was transmittcd to IDA in January 1995.
3.18          The capacity of the MOPH to provide adequate epidemiological surveillance and
operational research is detcrmincd to a large extent by the resources available to the division in
chargc of the hcalth information system (DSIS). So far, USAID has been the main source of
financing of DSIS activities. However, with the closing of the USAID mission in Chad and the end
of funding, the Government has requestcd IDA's financial assistance to ensure an adequate follow-
up of the sentinel sites with regard to STDs and HIV and a complete compilation of data on AIDS.
3.19          Project Support. The project would finance: (i) long-term specialist services: 24
months of an international specialist in cpidemiology and program management. This assistance
would be equally shared by the PNLS, the DSIS and the FOSAP and would support the Chadian
authorities in management, coordination, and epidemiological surveillance in the context of the
MTP 2. The recruitment of the specialist would be a condition of effectiveness; (ii) short-term
spccialist services for: annual programming (3 months), organization of national blood safety
program (one month), and AIDS-related training and research (2 months); (iii) training: long-term
training in epidemiology (24 months), health program management (12 months); short-term
training: abroad in IEC (3 months) and in epidemiology (4 months); on-site training and
supervision of health personnel in the regions on the health information system; national workshops
for the annual review of the AIDS control program; (iv) 3 vehicles: one for the PNLS, one for the
long-term technical assistant, and one for the DSIS, two of which will be used for missions to the
sentinel sites; and (v) logistical and operations support. Draft terms of reference for all specialist
services have been discussed during appraisal.



20
b.     Supporting epidemiological, operational, and socio-economic research
(US$3.7 million)
3.20          Scope and Obiectives.  The objectives of this sub-component arc to improve
epidemiological surveillance of HIV/AIDS/STDs, and to conduct operational research to improve
clinical management of AIDS/STDs patients and on the socio-economic impact of AIDS.
Prevention and control of HIV/STDs are not possiblc without adcquate know lcdge of the
prevalencc trend and the socio-behavioral and biological determinants of the discasc. With the
exception of survcys of HIV infection among pregnant wvomen, blood donors, and tuberculosis
patients, conducted at the sentinel sites, very fewv studies have been done.
3.21          Project Support. With respect to epidemiological surveillance, the project would
finance: (i) the development of two additional sentinel sites (making a total of 7) that would serve
800 pregnant women each and about 400 STDs cases. (ii) five prevalencc studics of HIV/STDs --
one per ycar -- among target groups such as prostitutcs, the young, truck drivers, and the military,
(iii) two KAP studies; and (iv) a study on the priority indicators of prcvcntion (IPP) that will allow
assessment of the impact of interventions put in placc by the MTP I and 2. The methodology for
the IPP will be based on the one developed by the WHO Global Program for AIDS. The project
would also provide support to operational studies aimed at improving the quality of public health
services. The following studies wvould be financed: (i) the devclopment and adoption of algorithms
for the management of STDs and AIDS patients. (ii) the elaboration of a referral protocol to assist
seropositives and their families; (iii) the evaluation of the clinical definition of AIDS; and (iv) a
study on the relationship of HIV and tuberculosis to improve the treatment of tuberculosis among
the seropositives. In addition, the project would finance studies on the accessibility and utilization
of health centers and district hospitals. Finally, the projcct wvould finance a study on the socio-
economic impact of AIDS at the individual and family levels and at the communitv and
macroeconomic levels.
3.22          All studies would be the shared responsibility of the DSIS and the PNLS and will
be supported by necessary external technical assistance (para 3.19). As agreed during appraisal,
the Ministrv of Public Health has transmitted to IDA in January 1995, a document detailing the
responsibilities of the PNLS and the DSIS with respect to the program of epidemiological research.
3.     Putting in place a social marketing program for the promotion of condom use
(US$7.1 million)
3.23          Scope and Objectives. The objectives of this sub-component are to increase the
availability and promote the use of condoms in Chad. To this end, the project wvould assist the
Government in establishing a social marketing program for condoms as a major strategy for AIDS
prevention. The objective of the program is to reduce the transmission of HIV/STDs through
increased use of condoms. A secondary benefit is the protection against unwanted pregnancies.
3.24          Background. Until recently, condoms were mostly supplied by USAID, UNFPA,
and WHO. However, the quantity supplied has been very small compared to the estimated needs
of the country (para 2.32). Furthermore, USAID is closing its offices in Chad and will no longer
supply condoms. Similarly, UNFPA and WHO are not considering increasing their supply of
condoms because of unavailability of funds. In Chad, there is a clear need -- in addition to
supplies through the health system -- for a social marketing program whereby a socially beneficial
good such as the condom is sold at prices affordable to the poor who may not patronize the health



2]
system. The program would use already existing private sector channels, such as distributors,
retailers, and advertising agencies. Condoms would be sold rather than given away, and would be
packaged and well promoted to ensure that the recipient will value them, to motivate retail outlets
to carry and sell them, and to promote cost recovery. IEC campaigns would complement social
marketing activities to maximize impact, create demand for condoms and other contraceptives, and
encourage sustainable behavior.
3.25          During project preparation and as part of the MTP 2 for AIDS control, the
Government has prepared a preliminary strategy for a social marketing program applying the
principles of the 4 "Ps": product, price, place, and promotion. In addition, it has prepared a plan of
action with progress indicators. The Government has also entrusted the ASTBEF, an NGO
affiliated to IPPF, with the implementation of this program (para 2.45). As a young organization,
ASTBEF needs institutional support and substantial external assistance to effectively implement a
new social marketing program. To address this concem, the Government and ASTBEF decided to
use the expertise of a firm specialized in establishing social marketing programs. Several firms
have a wide experience in Africa, and have developed expertise in setting up mechanisms, adapted
to the cultural context, to prevent waste and leakage and to ensure project viability. The terms of
reference for the recruitment of a firm have been revised and finalized and a short list has been
established in consultation with IDA.  A signed contract, acceptable to IDA, between the
Government, ASTBEF and a firm with expertise in social marketing of condoms will be a
condition of effectiveness.
3.26          The condom  social marketing (CSM) program  would be managed in an
autonomous manner by a social marketing unit under the general direction and guidance of
ASTBEF and, during the first three years, of the social marketing firm selected to assist ASTBEF,
and in close coordination with the PNLS to ensure achieving maximum impact, making the best
use of resources, and avoiding unnecessary overlap between projects. The proposed CSM unit
would also work closely with various government structures, NGOs, and local associations
involved in FP and in the implementation of the MTP 2. A special accent is placed in the
consultant's terms of reference on building a local capacity so that, at the end of the project, a local
entity formed by trained local project staff would be in place to manage the social marketing
operation. Year 3 of the project will serve as a phase-out period for the long-term assistance
provided by the firm. By then, a solid market for the project condom brand should be established
and research on the feasibility of marketing other products would have been completed as a
possible method to add to the cost efficiency of the program. During the last two years of the
project, the firm will provide only short-term technical assistance which IDA will finance.
3.27          With the development of the social marketing program, the use of condoms is
expected to increase from about 2 million condoms in the first year to about 4.8 million in the last
project year and reach a cumulative total of about 14 million condoms sold during five years. KfW
(Germany) will finance the social marketing programn (including all condoms) for the first three
years and IDA will finance it for the last two years. Revenues generated from the sales of condoms
would be used to cover part of the operating costs of the CSM and ensure its sustainability. During
the first three years, as condoms would be financed by KfW, its procurement procedures would be
used.
3.28          Project Support. The proposed project would finance: (i) specialist services: 66
person-months of intemational services for technical expertise in social marketing and 3 person-
months for an audit service; (ii) contractual local staff including: two co-directors of the CSM
program (one national and one international), a director of marketing, regional marketing



representatives, an accountant/MIS spccialist, an IEC specialist, a person in charge of stocks as
well as part-time contractual personnel in charge of sales; (iii) training: study tours for staff of the
social marketing unit to visit a successful CSM program in Africa, and regional training in IEC
and promotion activities; (iv) condoms; (v) equipment: officc furniture, computer, promotional
equipment such as overhead projector, computcr card, and a machine for the packaging of
condoms, (vi) one vehiclc, (vii) markct studics and focus group research, (viii) promotional
activities; (ix) rehabilitation of facilitics for the CSM unit; and (x) operating and maintenance
costs.
4.     Promoting the participation of the private sector and NGOs in population,
family planning, and HIV/AIDS/STDs programs (US$5.5 million)
3.29          Scope and Objective. The objective of this component is to complement and
enhance government interventions in the arcas of population and AIDS control. The proposed
project would establish a social fund (FInds de Soutien auix Activiles en matiere de Population)
(FOSAP) to provide grant financing for activities and programs that would contribute to the
implementation of the population and AIDS control programs.  The amount set, including
cormmunity participation, would bc US$1.2 million cquivalcnt for population-related activities and
US$4.3 million equivalent for AIDS control activities. The FOSAP would be open to donors for
additional financing.
3.30          Background. This project component aims at complementing and enhancing
government interventions and the CSM program in the areas of population and AIDS control, and
encouraging participation from the community at large, including NGOs and associations. The
beneficiaries of the grants will bc NGOs, associations, private organizations and individuals
(pharmacists, physicians, midwives, etc.).  In addition to these projects, and given the weak
capacity of a number of NGOs and local associations, the FOSAP would support several "resource
projects" (projets dynamisateurs) the operators of which would agree in return to guide applicants
to the FOSAP in the preparation, implementation, and evaluation of their potential projects. Their
key role would be in training and transfer of skills; no hierarchical relationship would exist between
the resource projects and other projects. One important criterion to be used in the selection of the
"projets dynamisateurs" is their actual record of success in implementation. The FOSAP, in
collaboration with the Division of Population (for population-related sub-projects) or with the
CTLS and the PNLS (for AIDS control-related sub-projects) would be responsible for their
selection on the basis of their experience and their geographical location. So far, the following
qualified NGOs have expressed interest in playing such a role: World Vision Chad, Bureau Appui
Sante Environnement - Institut 7ropical Suisse (BASEI- ITS), Medecins sans frontieres (M,SF),
and the UJnion nationale des actions diocesaines. Their current activities are such that they could
assure a geographical coverage of all regions. The concept of projet dynamisateur is described in
greater detail in a document entitled I'rojets dynamisateurs (this document is in the project file and
will be in an annex to the Project Implementation Manual).
3.31          Within a limit of CFA 30 million per sub-project, the FOSAP would finance up to
80% of the project cost for the following types of expenditures: local expertise, vehicles, equipment
and supplies, including contraceptives, training, mass media, and essential operating expenses.
The remaining 20% would be covered by counterpart financing from participating NGOs and
private agencies. A decree creating the FOSAP has already been approved and a "project
selection committee", consisting of about seven persons from both the public and private sectors,
has been established, under terms and conditions agreed with IDA, to review and approve financing
proposals. The Government has prepared, in consultation with IDA, terms of reference for the



23
FOSAP administrator and has initiatcd his recruitment   The adminiistrator (administrateuar-
gestionnaire) would bc a member of the project coordinatioin tcam (PCT) (para 4.4). An outlinc of
the functioning of the FOSAP is prcscnted in the official decrees that can bc found in the projcct
file.
3.32           During appraisal. the FOSAP Procedures Manual was reviewed in dctail, not onlv
by the several concerned ministries but also bv the CILONG  and secvral NGOs.  Their
participation in the preparation of this manual cnsurcs that the point of vicw of those who will be
using the FOSAP has been incorporatcd in the fund procedurcs, crcates o\Nncrship on their part
and should ensure sustainability. The Govcrnmcnt has agreed that: (a) it would make available to
the beneficiaries portions of the amount allocatcd to the FOSAP. in accordance with agreements
between the FOSAP and the bcncficiarics on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and (b)
IDA would review and approve any grant in exccss of C'FAF 30.0 million bcforc the contract is
signed. The draft by-laws and regulations govcrning the administration of the FOSAP, together
with a procedural manual and a standard contract to bc cntcrcd into with the would-be bcneficiaries
of the Fund, have been officially adoptcd by the Government and transmittcd to IDA and are
satisfactory. Thesc documents w ill bc included in thc project implementation manual
3.33           Project Support. In addition to the "I'ro/L's dvnamisateurs", the FOSAP would
finance a minimum  of 40 AIDS control-rclated sub-projects and 20 population-related sub-
projects. AIDS control activities carried out with FOSAP financinig would bc multi-sectoral and
aim at:  (i) preventing  new sexual transmission of HIV infections through IEC interventions
targeting about 415, 000 Chadians in defined target groups. and (ii) reducc the impact of AIDS on
about 12, 000 AIDS patients, 21.000 familics, and 45.00)0 orphans through interventions targeted
to seropositives who may or may not bc diagnoscd with AIDS, and their familics (para 2.27). In
collaboration with key ministries idcntified during thc National Consensus Workshop, a minimum
number of IEC sub-projects wvould bc dcvclopcd progrcssivcly for each of the targct groups: (i) the
young: one project per prefecturc of the country. i.c.. a total of 14 projccts. (ii) prostitutes and their
clients: one project for each of scven prcfectures. (ii) civil servants and thcir familics: one project
per ministry with a total of seven ministrics: (iv) migrant workers and truck drivcrs: to cover all
major migration and transport routes to the Camcroon and Nigcria. a total of 3 projccts; and (v)
one project providing psycho-social support for HIV/AIDS pcrsons and their families in each of
five prefectures.  All these projects would bc placed under the concerned ministry for tcchnical
control and follow-up. The government has ageed that it would maintain in the budget of the seven
ministries involved in AIDS control a separate budgctary itcm to carry out thcsc and other AIDS
control activities.
3.34           Population-related activities that could be financed by the FOSAP would be: (i)
those aimed at expanding MCH/FP serviccs beyond thc public health facilities, such as the
establishment of private FP and health facilities. Priority would bc givcn to projects that seek to
expand the contraceptive distribution network, such as community distribution projects; (ii)
innovative IEC activities that arc targeted to specific groups (men, teenagers, workers, etc.) and
involve formal as well as informal channels of communication that are complementary to public
health channels, such as agricultural extension workers, community devclopment workers, women's
associations, rural development cooperativcs, and privatc employers, (iii) those aimed at improving
women's income-earning capacities and their socio-economic status, and (iv) studies and
operational research that wvould provide a bettcr undcrstanding of the socio-cultural and economic
characteristics of the population and would examine the acceptability of new  contraceptive
methods. At least three sub-projects for each of the four thcmes identified above would be funded
through this project.



24
C. Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.35          The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$27.2 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$15.0 million (55%). Base cost estimates are
US$24.8 million at November 1994 prices. The costs exclude direct taxes and import duties.
Physical and price contingencies are estimated at US$2.4 million (9% of total cost) with physical
contingencies representing 4% of base cost. Price contingencies, estimated at US$1.4 million,
assume a domestic inflation rate of 4.5% in Project Year 1, 2.5% in Project Year 2, and 2%
annually for the remainder of the project years. A foreign inflation rate of 2.5% per annum
(average for the period 1990-2000) is assumed for the total duration of the project. Detailed project
cost estimates are given in Annex 3-2.
Table 2: Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
Local Foreign   Total
---------(US$ million)---------
A. Reinforcing the national capacity to implement the       2.5        4.5        7.0
national population policV
B. Strengthening the national capacity to contain the spread of  3.7   2.2       5.9
HIV/AIDS/STDs
C. Putting in place a social marketing program for the promotion    2.1  4.3      6.4
of condom use
D. Promoting the participation of the private sector and NGOs  2.8     2.7       5.5
in population, FP, and HIV/AIDS/STDs programs
Total Base Costs                                    11.1       13.7      24.8
Physical contingencies                        0.4        0.6       1.0
Price contingencies                           0.7        0.7       1.4
Total Project Costs                                 12.2       15.0      27.2
Financing Plan
Financiers                                          Local  Foreign   Total
---------(US$ million)---------
IDA                                                 9.0       11.4      20.4
KfW                                                 0.9        3.5       4.4
UNFPA                                               0.0        0.1       0.1
Government                                          1.3        0.0        1.3
Communities                                         1.0        0.0        1.0
Total                                              27.2       12.2      15.0
IDA would finance 75% of total project costs (US$20.4 million). The Government of Germany
has informed the Government of Chad that KfW would contribute 16% (DM 7 million, equivalent
to US$4.4 million). UNFPA's contribution totals about 0.3% (US$ 0.1 million). The Government



25
would contribute 5%, i.c. about US$1.3 million equivalent, and communities would contribute,
through cost recovery of condoms and cofinancing of micro-projects, 4% (US$ 1.0 million).
3.36          Recurrent Cost Implications. Given thc very limited physical expansion envisaged
under the project, the incremental rccurrent costs expcctcd to be generated directly by project
investments would be minimal. The onlN real addition to the physical infrastructure would be the
rehabilitation of a building to house the Division of Population and another to house the Condom
Social Marketing program.  Similarlv, minimal incremental salaries to be financed by the
Government arc expected as most staff involved in project implementation are already on the
MOPH and MOPC payrolls. The limited incremcntal recurrent costs to be generated by the
activities supported undcr this projcct should be compared with the long-term costs of not
launching a population program and an AIDS control program. Without the financing provided by
the proposed project, a much more serious sustainability problem wvould emerge in terms of: (i)
costs of increases in social services to catcr to a faster growing population; (ii) costs of caring for
additional AIDS and STDs paticnts, and (iii) costs of caring for the children of additional AIDS
victims.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness
4.1           Throughout project preparation, discussions were regularly held with the Chadian
preparation team, the technical staff of the MOPH and the MOPC to agree on priorities within the
population and health sectors. Financing of preparation activities, including studies, workshops,
specialist services and materials, was provided under a PPF advance of US$ 350,000. UNFPA
contributed to financing the devclopmcnt of the population policy and is presently financing
seminars to disseminate it and training for the Division of Population personnel. A participatory
approach was used to develop the population policy over several months (para. 3.9). Throughout
this process, the Governmcnt received technical assistance from CERPOD, an African NGO with
extensive experience in this proccss (para 3.5). Similarly, the preparation of the MTP 2 for AIDS
control followed a participative process in a National Conscnsus Workshop. In addition to IDA,
WHO contributed to financing this process.
4.2           The preparation process scrved two pivotal functions. First, it helped accelerate
the development and official adoption of the population policy as well as the MTP 2 for AIDS
control.  Second, the participatory planning process involving personnel from many different
ministries, NGOs. communitics. ctc., hlcpcd to cngender understanding and commitment to issues
relating to population and AIDS in general, and women in particular (paras 2.34, 2.42 and 2.43).
It also allowed the discussion of formerly taboo subjects such as regulations governing prostitution.
Particular attention was devoted to effective implementation of the population policy and the AIDS
MTP 2 and to effective collaboration and coherence of approaches among donors.
B. Project Coordination and Management
4.3           All project activities would be managed and implemented by existing units or
directorates located in the MOPH and the MOPC, as follows: the population policy component
would be managed by the Division of Population at the MOPC; the component for strengthening
national capacity to contain the spread of HIV/AIDS/STDs would be the responsibility of the
PNLS at the MOPH; the social marketing component would be managed and implemented by the
ASTBEF and an international firm specialized in social marketing, under the supervision of the



26
MOPC and the MOPH (for technical aspects); and the FOSAP would be managed by the projcct
coordination team (PCT) under the direct supervision of the Direction Generale of the MOPC.
Bascd on the succcssful modcl in ongoing projects in Chad, the PCT would focus on projcct
monitoring and evaluation, would coordinate procurement and disbursement and would be
responsible for accounting and auditing.
4.4           Day-to-day coordination of project activities, administrative and financial matters.
as well as monitoring and evaluation, would be the responsibility of the PCT, locatcd in the MOPC
and reporting directly to the Director General. Thc PCT wvould: (a) coordinate the preparation of
annual work programs and budgcts for all components; (b) procure goods and serviccs and recruit
consultants whcn needed. (c) review implementation progress reports prepared by the coordinators
of components. (d) maintain and consolidate all project accounts including Special Accounts, (e)
prepare the neccssarv documcntation for withdrawal of proceeds from the IDA credit. (f) be
responsiblc for the FOSAP; (g) make arrangemcnts for the audit of project accounts and SOEs; (h)
prcpare, as rcquired. semi-annual and annual progress reports for IDA, the Government, and
cofinancicrs; (i) organizc semi-annual, annual, and mid-term rcviews of project implementation,
and (j) maintain an effective dialogue wvith key donors and agencies in the population and health
sectors, The composition of the PCT is dcscribed below in para 4.5.
4.5           Strengthcning capacity for projcct coordination. The MOPC would be rcsponsible
for the dav-to-dav coordination of project activities. The Government has already appointcd a
project coordinator wvith a good knowvledge of administrative procedures and cxpcrience in
managcmcnt, and is in the process of recruiting the rest of the project coordination tcam which
would includc a project administrator (administrateur-gestionnaire) responsible for procurement
on components other than FOSAP, an accountant, and support staff (their functions are detailed in
para 4.4). In addition, the team would include the FOSAP administrator, who will bc rcsponsible
for FOSAP procurement (para 3.31), as well as the long-term specialist in epidemiology and
program managcment (para 3.19). The government has initiated, in consultation with IDA, the
recruitment of a qualified accounting firm, experienced in working according to the International
Accounting Standards, in consultation with IDA, to establish a computerized accounting system
and to train the projcct accountant. Establishment of (a) the PCT, Nvith the coordinator and the
above key senior profcssional staff in post, with qualifications and experiences acceptable to IDA,
and (b) the accounting and financial management system, satisfactory to IDA, wvould be conditions
of effectiveness. In addition, the Government has agreed that it would operate the PCT under tcrms
of reference (including staffing) acccptable to IDA and would not replace any key staff without
IDA's prior consent.
4.6           Project Support For the project coordination team, the project would financc (a)
computers and office equipment, office furniture and supplies; two vehicles, of which one is a 4x4,
5 motorcycles and 3 mopeds (b) about 14 person-months of short-term international professional
assistance in the areas of accounting and other technical areas if necessary; about 10 person-
months of local specialist services in the areas of auditing and procurement, (c) training
(fellowvships, study tours, and annual programming workshops) for five participants; (d) salarics of
local contractual pcrsonnel; and (e) incremental operating costs, including, travel and subsistence
expenses, utilities, operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, documentation, and
office space and supplies



27
C. Monitoring and Evaluation and Reporting
4.7            Monitoring and evaluation of project performance -- including inxcstments and
policies -- would be carried out by the respective implementing units and coordinatcd by the PCT.
Special efforts would bc made to measure the impact of project investments on qualitative
improvemcnts by assessing key indicators (Annexes 2.3 and 2.4). The levels of thesc indiicators arc
estimates which wvill be reviewed and, if necessary, revised whcn the studies planncd undcr the
project have been carried out In addition, an annual review of thcsc indicators will bc carricd out
as required by the MTP2.
4.8            To ensurc effective coordination of project monitoring. the Government has agrecd
that it would. (a) transmit to IDA progrcss reports on projcct implcmcnitation and outcomcs tWICC
a  rear (in April and October); (b) organize, during the last quarter of each year. a joint
IDA/Government review of project implementation, based on progress rcports. annLial work
programs, and budgets for the next year; and (c) carry-out a mid-term  revicw  of project
implemcntation -- bascd on financial and technical audits -- jointly with IDA. during thc last
quarter of 1997. Supervision missions by IDA would take place at the samc time for both projects.
Dctails of IDA's supervision plan and of annual and mid-term reviews are provided in Anncx 4-1.
Within six months of the Credit closing, the PCT would also transmit to IDA a completion rcport,
prcparcd in accordancc xwith terms of reference satisfactory to IDA and a plan for futurc operation
of the project prepared on the basis of guidelines acceptable to IDA.
D. Procurement
4.9            Tablc 3 below (page 28) summarizes the project elcments by categor\. estinmated
costs, and proposed procurcment methods. No special exemptions, pennits or liccnscs need to be
specified in Credit documents for international competitive bidding (ICB) as C'had's procurcment
practices allow  IDA  procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local
regulations. However, the attention of project implementers was drawn to advance precautions for
ICB procurement such as: (a) to refrain from using restricted lists of suppliers and contractors. (b)
to leave the choice of insurance company to the suppliers or contractors, (c) to ensure sufficient
advertising; and (d) to discontinue the use of the two-envclopes system for submission of bids.
Local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA will be includcd in the project
implemcntation manual. Procurement schedules and the packaging of works and goods are given in
Annex 4-2.
4.10           Civil works. The only civil works financed by the projcct would be minor office
rehabilitation for the Division of Population, and for the Condom Social Marketing program. Only
the former is to be financed by IDA (KfW will finance the latter). Since their aggrcgatc amount
would not exceed the equivalent of US$20,000, they would be procured on the basis of prudent
local shopping, based upon price quotations obtained from at least three reliable contractors.
4.11           Goods. Vehicles and contraceptives financed by IDA (totaling US$4.5 million),
would be grouped into packages of at least US$250,000 each and procured through ICB in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBIRD) Loans and IM)A Credits
(May 1992). Standard bidding and contract documents developed by the Bank wvould be used4  A
preferential margin of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the CIP prices
of competing goods for all ICB procurement would be given to domestic firms, if any Furniture
4 The special bidding and contract documents for pharmaceuticals would be used for contraceptivcs.



28
CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements
(USS million, Net of Taxes and Duties)
Procurement Arrangements
International     Local                       Not
Competitive    Competitive                   Bank-
Bidding        Bidding       Other       Financed               Total
A. Goods
Equipment                                                          0.1            -          0.2 /a                0.3
(0.1)                                          (0.1)
Materials and Furniture                                            0.1            -                                0.1
(0.1)                                          (0.1)
Vehicles                                            0.6                           -          0.3 /a                0.9
(0.6)                                                         (0.6)
Condoms                                             0.9                           -          0.7 /a                1.6
(0.9)                                                         (0.9)
Contraceptives                                      3.0                           -            -                   3.0
(3.0)                                                         (3.0)
B. Civil Works                                                                       0.1         0.1 /a                0.2
(0.1)                             (0.1)
C. Consultant's Services
National Consultants                                                            0.5                                0.5
(0.5)                             (0.5)
International Consultants                                                       1.4          1.0 Ia                2.4
(1.4)                             (1.4)
Contractual Personnel                                                           0.9          0.4 Ia                1.3
(0.9)                             (0.9)
D. Training
Local                                                                           0.6          0.7 la lb            1.3
(0.6)                             (0.6)
Abroad                                                                          0.5          0.1 lb                0.6
(0.5)                             (0.5)
E. Studies and Research                                                              4.4           -                   4.4
(4.4)                             (4.4)
F. FOSAP Grants                                                                      4.5         0.9 Ic                5.4
(4.5)                             (4.5)
G. Incremental Operating costs
Maintenance, supplies, salaries, etc.                                           2.0          1.3  a/b/cld          3.3
(2.0)                             (2.0)
Supervision missions                                                            0.4          0.1 Ibid              0.5
(0.4)                             (0.4)
Ministry personnel                                                                           1.0 Id                1.0
(0.0)
H. PPF refinancing                                                                  0.4            -                   0.4
(0.4)                             (0.4)
Total                                                 4.5             0.2        15.7          6.8                  27.2
(4.5)         (0.2)       (15.7)            -                (20.4)
Notes:
Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA credit
/a Financed by KlW and procured under its own arrangements.
lb Financed by UNFPA and procured under its own arrangements.
/c Communities participation in the financing of FOSAP activities and project's recurrent costs.
/d Governments contribution to the financing of project's recurrent costs;
Salaries of civil servants participating in project execution, financed 100% by the Government as part of its contribution to project costs.
(procur.xis)



29
and other goods that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$250,000 would be procured
through LCB under procedures acceptable to IDA, provided that the aggregate amount of such
procurement does not exceed US$0.3 million. Procurement of small items for health promotion
campaigns and project activities, for office supplies, and spare parts which are available off-the-
shelf and cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$30,000, will be done on the basis of
prudent international and local shopping, based upon price quotations obtained from at least three
reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed
US$100,000. Condoms for the social marketing program will be procured using KfW's
procurement procedures during the first three years when this project component will be financed
exclusively by KfW.
4.12          Consultant Services. International and local consultants' services financed by IDA
(US$7.2 million equivalent including US$0.9 million for local contractual personnel and US$4.4
million for population and AIDS studies and research) would be contracted in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981). The standard form of contract for
appointment of consultants as developed by the Bank would be used. The services include
technical assistance, and specialist services in the area of procurement, research and studies (others
than those to be carried out with the assistance of CERPOD), auditing and accounting. Technical
assistance for the implementation of the population policy would be contracted on a sole source
basis to CERPOD, an African NGO based in Mali, which has assisted the Government in
developing the policy (para 3.5).
4.13          FOSAP grants would be used in accordance with simplified procurement
procedures (i.e. three quotations) for contracts not exceeding US$ 30,000 up to an aggregate
amount of US$4.5 million. These procedures are defined in the official by-laws and regulations
governing the administration of the FOSAP. IDA will undertake sample checking of such
transactions.
4.14          Procurement status of ongoing projects in Chad.  A Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) was completed in August 1993. For this project, the findings of the
CPAR remain valid. In general, Chad's current procurement laws and regulations do not conflict
with IDA Guidelines. The disbursement lag under certain ongoing IDA-funded projects in Chad is
partly the result of insufficient procurement skills, poor procurement practices (i.e., poor planning
and slow progress in civil works due to inadequate management capability). The capacity of
project units to plan and closely supervise IDA-financed procurement has been a major constraint
on the timely execution of project activities. However, recently, due to closer supervision and the
emphasis on project implementation, substantial improvements have been observed in Chad.
4.15          Procurement arrangements under the proposed project. For the proposed project a
number of activities are planned in order to establish local capacity in the area of project
coordination and implementation:
(a)    The project coordinator has already been recruited. Past experience in project
management and procurement was taken into consideration in the selection
process, and he has already demonstrated his capacity.
(b)    A detailed processing schedule for goods and services to be procured under the
project is in Annex 4-2. This would contribute to ensuring timely processing of all
required actions. During implementation, all bid evaluation reports transmitted to



30
IDA for revicw would contain an updatcd copy of the implemcntation schedule
and a Form 384.
4.16           The project administrator, under the supcrvision of the projcct coordinator, wvould
be responsible for procurement other than under FOSAP, and the FOSAP administrator for that
component. When necessary, support from  independent procurcment specialists (consultants),
(estimated at two person-months per year during the first two years of the projcct and one person-
month during the rest of the project) wvill bc used. The project administrator would ensurc that
bidding documents (including invitation letters, terms of refcrencc and nceds in human resourccs
for consulting services) for the first two years of thc projcct (one year only for contraceptivcs) are
prepared and found acceptable to IDA as a condition of cffectivcncss.
4.17          In addition, he/shc, with assistancc from the short-term procurcmicnt specialist,
would also collect and record procurement information as follows: (a) prompt reporting of contract
award information; and (b) comprehensive monitoring reports to IDA on a semi-annual basis,
indicating: (i) revised cost estimatcs for individual contracts and the total project. including bcst
estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencics: (ii) rcviscd timing of procurcmcnt
actions, including advertising, bidding, contract avard, and complction timc for individual
contracts, and (iii) compliancc with aggregate limits on spccified methods of procurcment.
4.18           Review  by IDA,  IDA-financed contracts for goods above a threshold of
US$250,000 equivalent each would be subject to IDA's prior rcvicxv procedurcs. In addition, the
first three LCB procedures to be implemented under the projcct (with IDA financing) will also be
subject to prior review by IDA. The review process would cover about 70% of the total valuc of
the amount contracted for goods financcd by IDA. Sclectivc post-rcvicw of awardcd contracts
below the threshold levels would apply to about one in thrce goods contracts.  In the case of
consultants, prior revicw by IDA would be rcquircd for all consultancv contracts for individuals
above US$50,000 and for firms above US$100,000. Howevcr, this cxccption to prior review
would not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts, singlc-source hiring of firms,
assignments of critical nature as determined by IDA, and to amendmcnts of contracts raising the
contract value to US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50.00() cquivalent for individuals,
respectively.
4.19           Agreement has been reached on the proper monitoring of procurcment, as well as
the use of Bank standard bidding documents for ICB, and standard procuremcnt documents for
LCB to be developed and reviewed by and agreed with IDA. The Government has agreed that it
would apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlincd above. It wvill also prcpare a
procedure manual for management and procurement for the project launch seminar.
E. Disbursements, Accounting and Auditing
4.20           The project is expected to be completed over a five-ycar period. The IDA credit
would be disbursed over 6 years according to the categories shoNvn in Table 4. The estimated
disbursement profile is shown in Annex 4-3. The project is expected to disburse more rapidly than
an average PHN project in Africa because: (a) it has no civil wvorks; expericncc in African
countries like Chad shows that disbursement lags arc gcnerallv caused by dclays in the
construction/rehabilitation activities; (b) many activities havc becn carried out up-front (e.g. all
required policy changes have been enacted); and (c) all the bidding documents for the first two
years of this project (one year for contraceptives) arc being prepared as a condition of
effectiveness, consequently procurement will start as soon as the projcct becomcs effective.



3]
Disbursement of the credit would be fully documented except for contracts and expenditures valued
at less than US$50,000 equivalent which would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs).
Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at the PCT for review by IDA
supervision missions and for semiannual audits. To facilitate disbursement, the Government would
open a Special Account in CFAF in a commercial bank to cover IDA's share of eligible expendi-
tures managed by the PCT. The authorized allocation for the Special Account would be CFAF
250 million, (but not exceeding CFAF 125 million until aggregate disbursements plus outstanding
special commitments reach SDR 700,000 (US$1 million equivalent)). The Special Account would
be only for making payments against contracts estimated at less than US$250,000. At the request
of the Borrower, IDA would make an initial deposit from the proposed Credit upon credit
effectiveness and would replenish the Special Account upon receipt of satisfactory proof of
incurred eligible expenditures. Replenishment requests would be accompanied by up-to-date bank
statements and reconciliations of the Special Account. Given the availability of the Special
Account, the minimum application for direct payments, reimbursement or requests for special
commitments would normally be for the equivalent of US$50,000 or more. The amounts to be
financed by IDA under each category are shown below. The estimated quarterly disbursement
schedule for the IDA credit is showvn in Annex 4-3.
Table 4: Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Category of                        Proposed IDA         % of Expenditures
Expenditures                       Allocation           Financed by IDA
1. Goods
(a) Contraceptives                 3.5               100% foreign/90% local
(b) Other items                    0.7               100% foreign/90% local
2. Rehabilitation of offices           0.02              90%
3. Consultants' services              2.5               100%
4. Training                           1.0               100%
5. Studies                            4.0               100%
6. FOSAP grants                       4.0               100%
7. Incremental operating costs        2.2               */
8. Refunding of PPF                   0.3
9. Unallocated                        2.2
Total                  20.4
l On a declining basis, as follows:
first, second, and third project years: IDA = 90%, Government  10%;
fourth, fifth and sixth years: IDA = 80%, Government = 20%.
4.21          The PCT would be responsible for the financial management of the project and
would maintain, with the assistance of a private accountant, consolidated project accounts in
accordance with International Accounting Standards (lASs). Project accounts, including the
Special Account, would be audited annually in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (ISAs) by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The project accounting system should
be capable of producing, on a timely basis, information needed by management to plan, evaluate
and control within the project the use of, and accountability for, its resources. This should include
the regular production of statements for all loans and credits, showing funds utilized, committed
and available by category of expenditure and project component, in the currency of the respective
agreement. It should also include information to enable management to compare costs with



32
appraisal estimates and control them. The Govenmment has agreed that it would submit to IDA
audit reports of reasonable scope and detail within: (a) six months of the end of each fiscal year in
the case of the annual audit report; and (b) three months of the end of each semester in the case of
SOEs. The appointment of an independent auditor under a multi-year contract acceptable to IDA,
and an accounting and financial management system which is operational, would be conditions of
effectiveness. The system will have been developed with the help of an internationally recognized
accounting firm.
F. Environment
4.22         The long-term impact on fertility reduction and the possible decline in the rate of
population growth would have some positive implications for the environment.  The other
components of the project are not likely to have a negative impact on the environment. Therefore
the project has been put in environment category C.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1          By assisting the Government in implementing its population policy, the project
would help increase community awareness of the legitimacy of FP activities. It would facilitate the
integration of FP into the public health system and encourage the private sector to work in this
area. The overall population program, including efforts supported by the IDA-financed Health and
Safe Motherhood project and NGOs, is expected to increase the contraceptive prevalence rate from
less than 2% to about 10% by the year 2000. The wider practice of FP would have a particularly
beneficial effect on the health of women and children. The project would help slow the spread of
the HIV infection and alleviate the burden of HIV/AIDS on about 12,000 AIDS patients, 21,000
families, 45,000 orphans, and the nation. The project would have significant retums in terms of
years of healthy life saved and would hold down the indirect economic cost of AIDS -- the losses of
productivity and human capital, which threaten the long-term economic development of Chad. The
project would also help prevent the transmission of STDs, which is one of the most effective
strategies for reducing the spread of HIV. By the end of the project, effective multi-sectoral IEC
activities and the social marketing of condoms are expected to produce behavioral changes among
the 415,000 sexually-active persons at high risk and reduce or prevent the transmission of HIV
infection and STDs. By contributing to reducing the number of infections transmitted to women,
the project would help reduce neonatal infection.
B. Risks
5.2           There are three main risks. First, the implementation of the population policy may
be hampered by the unstable political conditions in the country. This risk would be addressed by
closely monitoring the implementation of this policy through supervision of the project as well as
through the Bank's general dialogue with the Government. Second, the Government's weak
capacity may result in poor implementation.  This risk would be addressed through the
strengthening of the public institutions involved in project implementation, and through the use of
NGOs as well as the private sector. Third, the Government's chronic financial constraints may
affect counterpart funding, particularly for salary payments. This risk would be mitigated through
the successful implementation of the Economic Recovery Program and careful monitoring of
performance indicators.



33
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1           During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a)   the Division of Population would remain fully staffed at all times and key staff
would not be replaced without IDA's prior conscnt (para 3.6);
(b)   it would maintain in the budget of the ministries involved in AIDS control, a
separate budgetary item for AIDS control activitics (para 3.17 and 3.33);
(c)   it would make available to the bencficiaries portions of the amount allocated to the
FOSAP, in accordance with agreements entered into between the FOSAP and the
beneficiaries on terms and conditions satisfactorv to IDA; and IDA would review
and approve any grant in excess of CFAF 30.0 million before the contract is
signed (para 3.32);
(d)   it would operate the PCT under terms of reference (including staffing) acceptable
to IDA and would not replace any key staff without IDA's prior consent (para
4.5);
(c)    (a) it would transmit to IDA progress reports on project implementation and
outcomes twice a year (in April and October); (b) organize, no later than
November 30 of each year, a joint IDA/Government review of project
implementation, based on progress reports. annual wvork programs, and budgets
for the ncxt year; and (c) carry-out a mid-term review of project implementation --
based on financial and technical audits -- jointlv with IDA, in the last quarter of
1997 (para 4.8);
(f)   it would apply the procurement procedures and arrangements agreed upon at
negotiations (para 4.19);
(g)   it would submit to IDA audit reports of reasonable scope and detail within: (a) six
months of the end of each fiscal year in the case of the annual audit report; (b) and
three months of the end of each semester in the case of the SOEs (para 4.21).
6.2           As conditions of effectiveness, the Government wvould:
(a)    sign a contract xwith the CERPOD (para 3.6);
(b)    recruit the long-term technical assistant in epidemiology and program management
(para 3.19);
(c)    sign an agreement with the ASTBEF and a firm specialized in social marketing
that will be providing technical assistance (para 3.25);
(d)    establish the PCT, under satisfactory terms of reference, with the project
coordinator and the key professionals in post (para 4.5) and the accounting and
financial management system in place (paras. 4.5 and 4.21);



34
(e)    ensure that the bid documents for the first two years of the project (one year only
for contraceptives) are prepared (para 4.16);
(f)    employ an independent auditor under a multi-year contract (para 4.21).
6.3           Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$20.4 million to the Republic of Chad on standard IDA
terms with a maturity of 40 years.



35
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 1
CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
SOCIO-ECONOMIC INDICATORS
most        Same RsgionV               Nxt
25-3       15120t    Rrt.C        Income 0rmup               Hlghwr
Ufnit of       yWno    yail          Em1tir1       Sub4atL        i.         licome
Measure           age        age        (Mrs)         Afria      Ineome        iroup
Incoe Indato
GNPp rcapa(mrI1So1)                                     USS              a0         150        210            340       3Y0           1,530
Socal IndicaWa
Pubiic Expe_ndie on Basic Socia S5Moss                  of GDP                                  6
Gm" E       rvolmer Ralio
Primnry                                        S choolggmup            34         35         56             70         113          100
Maio                                                         s5          51          83             76        122          106
Female                                                         a         12          28             72         go           98
Iannt Morlity Ratr                             peOO ll   birls       183        159         124            104         70          40
Under-5 Moaity Ra.                                                                -         206            177         96          53
Immunizalion
Meal e                                            Aagerv gup                      -          17            40          73          70
DPT                                                                                          15            35          81          74
CIwid Mainumtion (b5)                                    *                                     35
Lt. Eupectancy
Oferall                                             yeM               30         40         47             51          63           67
Fumnalomnal_e                                       nrJo             1.09       1 08        1.07           1.06       0.95         1 08
Toal Ferility Rate                                births perowman        6         5.9         5.9            0.4        3.7          3.5
Maternal Modiity Rate                             1 00,000 ivn birahs
lnvestswt In Human Capiti
Helh
Population per phycan                               pomons            72,478     478044     30.031
Populvbon per monu                                                   13,808     4167         3,396
Populabon per hosWpil bed                                              -                     1,373         1,328      1,048         509
Education
Grous Enaiolnwqt Rato:
Socondary                                       schoo ago group        1          3              7          18          44          5s
Fomal-                                                         0          1          3              14         37
Scumsc      So"at tic3   g Deiopment 13.
Fopulation growth rate                                Infant mortality rate                                Primary enrollment
(paoczl)                                       (thou of live    ) birt
6 +                                                250                                                   120+
5                                   ~~~~~~~200                                              100
4                                                                                                         so
3                                                                                                         60
100
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
0                                                    0                                                     0
mid 60s      mid 70a          Wns                    mid 60s      mid70                                   mid 60s    mtd 70           nms
-Lowsd
ChadlS



36
Annex 2-2
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Chad
Beneficiary:         Ministry of Public Health
Credit Amount:       SDR 13.1 million (US$18.5 million cquivalent)
Terms:               Standard. with 40 years maturity
Project Description:  The Govcmment of Chad has developed a National Health Plan (1993-2000)
and launched the proccss of developing a population policy and its associated
plan of action. The central objcctive of the health program is to increase
access of the population to quality basic health care focusing particularly on
the most vulnerable groups of the population--children and women of child-
bearing age. A number of donors are alrcady supporting or plan to support this
program. The proposed project would complement these efforts to
improve the health status of the population, giving particular emphasis to
reducing both matcmal and infant/child mortality. Parallel to this project, IDA is
preparing a Population and AIDS Control project to support implementation of
the Government's population policy as wcll as the development and
implementation of an aggressive AIDS prevention program.
Within this framework, the prescnt project would support the development and
implementation of policies and investmcnts designed to.
I. Strengthen capability at the central level to support regional health services
by: (a) improving the budgetary process at the ccntral and regional levels, (b)
developing skill-upgrading modules for regional and district health personnel, (c)
developing and implementing a nationwide IEC program, and (d) reinforcing the
Govemmcnt's capacity to plan, coordinate, and implement donor-financed
projects.
2. Provide assistancc for health, nutritional and FP services to the rcgions of
Guera and Tandjilc by: (a) establishing a network of district health facilities-
(b) implementing skill-upgrading programs for health personnel; and (c) promoting
community participation in local health services' planning, implementation, and
monitoring.
3.Support the development and implementation of a National Drug Policy by: (a)
developing the planning and management capacity of the Pharmacy Division, and
(b) crcating a Ccntral Purchasing Agency (Centrale Pharmaceutique d'Achats)
for essential and gcneric drugs.
Benefits             By the end of the project, the increased efficiency of the health system would result
and Risks:         in increased acccss to, and improved quality of, health, nutrition, and FP services,
even within the framework of existing limited sectoral resources. For the regions



37
Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 4
of Guera and Tandjile, the project will intervene directly to extend the capacity of
the health care system, and the proposed activities would directly benefit about
750,000 people (more than 12% of the population), mostly women and children,
who would gain access to basic services.  Increased availability of low-cost
essential drugs, together with intensive retraining of health personnel is expected to
enhance the quality of health services throughout the country.  Sector-wide
restructuring measures will also help establish a basis for a more responsive
administration and a more efficient and sustainable program. The implementation
of an IEC strategy is expected to increase community participation in its own
health development. The steps taken to improve access to quality MCH/FP
services would put in place the basic infrastructure necessary for attaining the
increase in FP service delivery required to implement the Government's planned
population program. This program, to be supported through the proposed IDA-
funded Population and AIDS Control Project, is expected to contribute to
increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate from the present 1% to 10% in year
2000.
There are three main risks.  First, the implementing capacity of the central
Government is weak.   This risk would be minimized by: (a) up-front
implementation of key policy reforms such as personnel redeployment, (b) relying
heavility on stakeholder commitment through local management and community
participation, and (c) obtaining assistance from UNICEF, WHO, and ATETIP in
the implementation of the project. Second, the Government's chronic financial
constraints may affect counterpart funding as well as salary payments. This risk
would be mitigated by: (a) annual discussions of the sector and project
performance, budgetary allocations, and public expenditures review, (b)
redeployment of existing health personnel to staff new infrastructures created
through this and other donor-financed projects, and (c) gradual introduction of
cost-recovery to promote increased cost-sharing by the communities.  Third,
implementation of the national drug policy focusing on the use of essential and
generic drugs may face opposition from the private pharmaceutical sector. To
address this risk, the private sector will be given a place in the new system,
allowing them a profit margin on essential drugs in generic form higher than on
specialty drugs.  Furthermore, through IEC, the public will be taught that
inexpensive drugs are as effective and safe as expensive brand-name drugs.
Environmental Risks: No environmental risks are foreseen.
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable.



38
Annex 2-2
Page 3 of 4
ROLE DU PROJET SANTE/MATERNITE SANS RISQUE (S/MSR)
DANS LE RENFORCEMENT DE LA LUTTE CONTRE LE SIDA
1.            Dans le cadre de l'appui de l'IDA au Tchad, un projet intitulc "Santc et Maternite sans
Risques" (S/MSR) entrera en vigueur en janvier 1995. Cc projet beneficiera d'un credit IDA d'un montant
total de 18,5 millions de Dollars US dont une partie sera utilisee pour appuyer les activites contribuant a la
lutte contre le SIDA/MST.
OBJECTIFS DU PROJET S/MSR
2.            Les objectifs du projet sont de
1.     Renforcr les capacit6s du niveau central pour appuyer les services r6gionaux de la sante
en: (a) developpant le processus budgetaire au niveau central et rcgional; (b) developpant
des modules de formation (recyclage) pour le personnel des pr6ectures et des districts
sanitaires; (c) developpant et mettant en oeuvre un programme national pour l'IEC; et (d)
renforcant les capacites du Gouvernement a planificr, coordonner et mettre en oeuvre les
projets finances par les donateurs.
2.     Foumir une assistance aux services de soins de sante, nutritionnels ct de planification
familiale des r&gions du Guera et de la Tandiile en: (a) mettant sur pied un r6seau de
structures sanitaires au niveau des districts, (b) mettant en oeuvre un programme de
recyclage pour le pcrsonnel de sante; et (c) promouvant la participation communautaire a
la planification, la mise en oeuvre et le suivi des services sanitaires locaux.
3.     Appuver le developpement et la mise en oeuvre d'une politique nationale pour les
medicaments en : (a) developpant les capacites en planification et en gestion de la Division
de la Pharmacie; et (b) creant une Centrale Pharmaceutique d'Achats pour les mcdicaments
essentiels et generiques.
MANDAT DU MINISTERE DE LA SANTE DANS LA LUTTE CONTRE LE SIDA
3.            Dans le cadre du 2eme Plan a moyen terme du Programme National de Lutte contre le
SIDA, qui a defini les interventions-mandats des differents intervenants multisectoriels, Ic Ministere de la
Sante sera le chef de file de 9 interventions.
Ces interventions sont les suivantes:
1-     Assurer la securite transfusionnelle,
2-     Assurer le respect des conditions d'asepsie et de st6rilisation
3-     Assurer l'acces au services de la planification familiale



39
Annex 2-2
Page 4 of 4
4-     Promouvoir l'acccs aux scrviccs de santc
5-     Aider les communaut6s a garantir les soins aux seropositifs et aux malades du SIDA
6-     Promouvoir Ic diagnostic ct le traitcment precoce des MST
7-     Informer les couples scropositifs ct Ics couples discordants
8-     Promouvoir l'acccs aux conseils et au depistage volontaire du VIH
9-     Renforcer la politiquc des mcdicaments esscnticls.
DOMAINES APPUYES PAR LE PROJET S/MSR
A.             Formation en gestion et en prestation de soins. Comme tout le personnel de sante, les
techniciens nationaux impliqucs dans la lutte contre Ic Sida beneficieront du programme de formation et de
recyclage quc Ic projet S/MRS va mettrc en oeuvre. L'elaboration des modules se fera au niveau central
alors quc l'appui du Projet a la formation proprement dite couvrira le personnel des deux prefectures du
Guera et de la Tandjilc Notons a cc sujet que Ie PNLS bcncficie cgalement de I'appui de l'OMS/GPA qui a
deja claborc dcs modules de formation pour Ics MST/SIDA. Rappelons cgalement que la mise en oeuvre de
la formation du personncl dcs autres prefectures, outre lcs dcux cit6es, sera assuree par les projets du 7eme
FED (Union Europcennc), Ic PADS (IDA), Ic FAC (France) et l'UNICEF. Cette formation couvrira les
domaines dc la gestion dc programmcs. 1'cpidemiologic, les soins infirmiers y compris I'asepsie et la
sterilisation. Ia prisc en charge clinique des MST/SIDA, le conseil et l'IEC, les techniques pour le
diagnostic dc laboratoire N compris les tests pour le VIH et les MST, la gestion des medicaments essentiels
et la promotion de la participation communautaire.
B.             Activites IEC. Dans Ic cadre dc levaluation du Projet S/MSR, le ministere de la Sante a
rcorganisc l'Unit dc l'Information ct do l'Education pour la Sante en une Division de l'IEC qui , avec l'aide
d'une commission ad hoc, vient d'claborcr un plan d'action sur lequel la sous composante IEC du projet
S/MSR cst bas6c. Dans cc cadrc. Ic projet S/MSR contribuera a la lutte contre le SIDA en: (i) renfor,ant
les capacit6s pour planifier, coordonner et controler la qualite des activites IEC y compris celles relatives
aux MST/SIDA; (ii) rcalisant dcs programmcs de formation en IEC, en communication interpersonnelle et
en mobilisation sociale ct en (iii) conduisant des etudes quantitatives et qualitatives sur lesquelles les
strategics ct les messages de l'IEC se baseront.
C.             Prestation de soins de sante. Afin d'ameliorer l'accessibilite aux soins de sante primaires,
y compris Ics soins pour los MST/SIDA, le projet S/MSR va contribuer a developper I'approche "District"
basee sur la dcfinition du PMA et du PCA. en collaboration avec le PADS et l'UNICEF, dans les deux
prefectures du Gucra ct de la Tandjilc dont les habitants representent 12 % de la population du Tchad.
D.             Approvisionnement en medicaments essentiels. Le Projet S/MSR appuiera les efforts
du gouvemement en vue d'assurer une couverture nationale de I'accessibilite, tant financiere que
geographique. aux medicaments essentiels. x' compris ceux necessaires pour le traitements des infections
opportunistes liees au SIDA ct aux MST.



40
Annex 2-3
Page 1 of 6
CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
POLITIQUE DE POPULATION'
Fondement et Principes de Base
1.            Le Gouvemement du Tchad entend fonder sa politique de population sur les realites culturelles
nationales. Ainsi, la population est une variable determinante au niveau de la planification et de la politique
economique du pays.
2.            Le choix du Gouvernement de se doter d'une politique de population obeit donc en premier lieu
a sa volonte de fonder son developpement sur la promotion des ressources humaines en general, de la population
en particulier, dont la croissance doit etre en harmonie avec les possibilites de developpement national. Ce choix
traduit la conviction, que le Tchad partage avec de nombreux autres pays, que les problemes demographiques
constituent a I 'heure actuelle un d6fi majeur pour le continent.
Principes
3.            La politique de population du Tchad repose sur les principes suivants:
le respect de la personne humaine et de ses droits fondamentaux, tels que definis dans la
Declaration Universelle des Droits de l'Homme, dans la Charte Africaine des Droits de
I'Homme et des Peuples, et dans la Convention Relative aux Droits de l'Enfant, instruments
auxquels le Tchad a souscrit,
-      la promotion et la preservation de la famille comme cellule de base de la societe;
-      la promotion de la prise de conscience des epoux et des couples sur leur responsabilite face a
leur procreation, mais aussi aux imperatifs de developpement national;
-      le respect du droit des enfants a un avenir meilleur, notamment a I'ducation, a la sante et a la
formation;
-      la mise a disposition des individus et des couples des informations et des moyens de choisir
librement et en toute connaissance de cause l1espacement et le nombre de leurs enfants;
-      la promotion de la "Sante pour tous", conform6ment a la declaration de Alma Alta (1978);
-      la necessite d'integrer dans chaque politique sectorielle et strategie de developpement la
dimension humaine pour une meilleure prise en compte des variables demographiques;
-      la necessite de revaloriser le statut de la femme dans la societe;
Document prepared by the Population Division of the MOPC in October 1994.



41
Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 6
l'utilisation de l'education et de la persuasion et non la contrainte, comme moyen de convaincre
les individus et les couples.
Objectifs de la Politique de Population
4.             La finalite ultime de la politique de population est F'amelioration continue de la quahite de la vie
de toutes les couches de la population dans le cadre d'un developpement harmonieux.
a) Objectifs globaux
-      Promouvoir le bien-etre des populations en elevant le niveau de vie de tous, des plus demunis en
particulier;
-      assurer une meilleur adequation entre les ressources humaines et les possibilites de
developpement,
-      reduire de maniere significative la morbidite et la mortalite avec un accent particulier sur la
mortalite infantile et juvenile,
-      reduire le taux de fecondite general;
-       ima^itriser la croissance demographique;
-      promouvoir une politique d'urbanisation par la structure de villes secondaires dotees des
.quipements socio-economiques indispensables;
-      mettre en oeuvre une politique d'amenagement du territoire qui permettra une meilleure
repartition des populations dans l'espace national.
b) Objectifs specifiques
-      Assurer une couverture des besoins de base de la population dans les domaines de la sante, de la
nutrition, de l'education, de l'alimentation;
-      augmenter le taux de couverture sanitaire et ameliorer l'accessibilite des infrastructures de
sante;
-      faire baisser de 2,4 % annuellement a 2 % en l'an 2005 le taux de croissance demographique,
-      renforcer au niveau des populations la comprehension des inter-relations
population/developpement;
-      renforcer les capacites de la femme tchadienne a exercer pleinement ses droits;
-      promouvoir et assurer les droits et le bien-etre des enfants et des jeunes, conformement aux
recommandations du Sommet sur l'Enfance;
-      accroltre la participation de la femme au processus de developpement;



42
Annex 2-3
Page 3 of 6
revaloriser Ic statut social de la femme tchadienne;
reniforcer ct ctendrc Ics activit6s de SMI/BEF a tous les niveaux du svstcme de santc.
Pour pouvoir atteindre tous ccs objectifs, huit strategies sont definies et des actions spccifiques cnvisag&s.
Strategies et actions specifiques
5               Ccs sept strat6gics scront traduites en projets et activites dans Ic cadre d'un programme
d'actions ct d'invcstisscments en maticrc dc population que le Gouvernement va preparcr avcc la participation dc
tous les acteurs.
a)      Sante Maternelle et Infantile/Bien-Etre Familial
6.              Le (.ouvernemcnt a optc pour une intdgration poussec du Bien-Etre Familial (BEF) aux
services dc la Sante Matcrnclle et Infantile (SMI). La strategie dans cc domaine va s'articulcr autour d'unc
participationi accruc des populationis a la prise en charge de Ieurs propres besoins de base ct la misc en ocuvrc de
programmes de soins curatifs. Dc manicrc plus specifique, les actions suivantes scront men6es:
-       Ic dcpistagc ct une mcilleurc prise en charge des grossesses A risque;
-       1I'ducation et l'information des meres pour une meilleure prise dc conscience des probnicms de
santc de Icurs cnfants:
-       la luttc contre Ics avortements clandestins, les MST et la progression du SIDA  par une
mcilleurc information et unc sensibilisation permanente, en direction des jeuncs en particulier.
-       I'acccs a l'cau potable a 50% de la population d'ici I'an 2005 ct A 70 0() en l'an 2015,
-       Ic dcveloppemcnt des activit6s relatives a l'information, A l'ducation ct A la communication cn
niaticrc de BEF cn direction des jeunes, notamment en milieu scolairc.
-       Ia formation et Ic rccrclage d'au moins 60% d'ici a I'an 2000 du pcrsonnel paramcdical et social
ainsi que Icur perfectionnement dans le domaine du BEF;
-       I'augmentation du taux de prevalence contraceptivc pour le porter dc l1'%O ( 1990) a 10%"N, cn I'an
2000 et a 30 ",% en I'an 2015 en cc qui conceme la contraception modcern.
-       rcdvidamisation et d6ccntralisation des structures de formation (Ecolc Nationale de Santc ct
Facultc des Scienccs de la Sante) pour ameliorer la qualite de la formation.



43
Annex 2-3
Page 4 of 6
MATRICE DU PROGRAMME D'ACTIVITES DE POPULATION
ET DES INDICATEURS DE PERFORMANCE
ACTIVITES              PERIODE              RESULTATS                INDICATEURS DE
ATTENDUS                 PERFORMANCE
Adoption de la DPP par le        1994        Existence d'un cadre Icgal    DPP adoptee le 18 mai 1994.
CST.                                         d'execution de la politique
de population.
Elaboration d'un contrat         1994        Assistance technique et    Signature du contrat avant le
d'assistance avec le                         scientifique pour la misc en   31 mai 1995.
CERPOD.                                      oeuvre de la politique de
population.
Celebration de la journee     1994-1999      Sensibilisation du public sur  Organisation des tables
mondiale de la population.                   les probkemes de population.  rondcs, des conferences
radiot6l6vis6es et des
conferences publiques (2)
annuellement.
Publication d'un bulletin     1994-1999      Sensibiliser les lecteurs et    Parution d'un numero par an
d'information sur la                         susciter un debat public sur  de 1994 a 1999.
population et le                             la population et le
developpement.                               developpement.
Scminaires de sensibilisation  1994-1999     Accroitre la sensibilisation    Avoir sensibilise: 50 jour-
des groupes cibles a la                      et la mobilisation des     nalistcs, 200 responsables
politique de population:                     groupes cibles sur la      d'ONG, 100 leaders
ONG, Joumalistes, Femmes,                    politique et les programmes   d'opinion ct 200 responsables
Leaders d'opinion.                           de population.             d'associations fcminines sur
la periode.
Ateliers de sensibilisation et  1994-1999    Disposer au niveau de ccs    Avoir formc 1000
de formation aux questions                   groupes cibles de personnes  responsables syndicaux et
de population pour les                       acquises a la politique de  28 prcfets et adjoints aux
groupes cibles suivants:                     population.                prcfcts.
svndicalistes et personnel de
commandement territorial.
Participation au seminaire-   Nov. 1994      Renforcement des capacites   Avoir form6 15 cadres dans
atelier sur mise en oeuvre    Nov. 1996      de la Division de Population  la misc en oeuvre, le suivi et
des politiques et             Nov. 1998      dans la mise en oeuvre de    I'cvaluation des politiques et
programmes de population,     Nov. 1999      politique de population.   programmes de population.
CERPOD (Mali).                Nov. 2000
Participation a la conference    1994        Meilleure connaissance des   Prise en compte du
internationale sur la                        politiques de population des  programme d'action du Caire
population et le                             autres pays.               dans la mise en oeuvre de la
developpement (au Caire).                                               politique et des programmes
de population.
Voyages d'etudes et           1994-1999      Familiarisation avec les   Aptitude a utiliser les aspects
d'information.                               experiences des pays visites.  positifs des exemples visites.



44
Annex 2-3
Page 5 of 6
Adoption des textes creant et    1994         Creer un cadre de          Signature et promulgation de
organisant la CNPRH.                          concertation et de travail des  la loi et du decret relatifs a la
differents intervenants.   CNPRH avant la fin
dccembre.
Seminaire de sensibilisation   1994-1999     Renforcer le consensus      Disposer au sein de chaque
et reunion des membres de la                 autour de la politique de   ministcre d'un correspondant
CNPRH.                                       population.                 de la Division Population.
Seminaire sur l'analyse des      1995         Renforcer les capacitcs    Avoir forme 2 cadres a
donnees statistiques et                       nationales dans l'utilisation   l'utilisation des donnees
demographiques.                               des donn6es                demographiques.
demographigues.
Preparation et adoption du     1994-1995      Disposer d'un instrumcnt   Avoir finalise en dccembre
premier programme                             pour la misc en oeuvrc dc la  1995 le programme d'actions
d'actions et d'investissements                politique de population.   prioritaire.
prioritaires en matiere de
population.
Seminaire sur integration des  1995-1997      Renforccr les capacites    Avoir formc en 1997 40
variables demographiques                     nationales dans l'intcgration   cadrcs nationaux dans
dans la planification du                     des variables               I'int6gration des variables
developpement.                                demographiqucs.            dcmographiques dans lc
developpement.
Creation du fonds de soutien     1994        Existence d'un mecanisme    Signature des textes creant et
pour les activites en matiere                 de financement des         organisant le FOSAP avant
de population (FOSAP).                       interventions du secteur non  le 28 fevrier 1994.
gouvememental.
Appui du FOSAP a la mise       1994-1999      Financement des projets    Financement d'au momns 60
en oeuvre de la politique de                 presentes par Ic secteur non   projets pour la p6riode soit
population.                                  gouvernemental.             une mov'enne de 12 projets
par an.
Creation d'un Comite             1994        Existence d'un cadre de     Signature des tcxtes crcant ct
Technique de coordination                    concertation sur l'IEC.     organisant Ic comite
des activites d'IEC en                                                   technique avant le 3 1 janvier
matiere de population.                                                   1994.
Coordination des actions       1994-1999     Meilleure harmonisation des  Reunion mensuelle du comite
relatives a l'IEC en matiere                 actions des differents      de coordination de l'IEC.
de population.                               intervenants.
Initiation a la demographie.  1995 et 1996    Renforcement des capacites   Avoir assure l'initiation a la
techniques de la division de   demographie de deux cadres
population.                de la division de population
avant fin decembre 1996.
Formation en population et     1995-1996     Renforcement des capacites   Avoir forme et mis a la
developpement.                               techniques nationales.      disposition de la division de
population 3 cadres en
population et developpement
en octobre 1996.



45
Annex 2-3
Page 6 of 6
Formation en demographie.       1996-1997      Renforcement des capacites   Avoir form& et mis a la
(formation de   techniques nationales en     disposition de la division de
3 ans)       demographie.                population un demographe en
decembre 1997.
Execution d'une enqu&e             1995        Disponibilites de donnees    Mettre a la disposition des
demographique et de sante                      plus fiables sur la mortalite,  utilisateurs et du public les
(EDS).                                         la fecondite, etc.           resultats de l'EDS en mars
1996 au plus tard.
Etudes sur l'urbanisation et       1997        Meilleure connaissance des   Publier les resultats de
la migration au Tchad.                         migrations et de             N'etude avant f6vrier 1998.
I'urbanisation au Tchad.
Visites d'etude.                1996-2000      Apprendre des le,ons         Un participant visite un
(une par an)    d'autres pays.              programme qui marche
I___ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ _  __ _ __ __ _   __   chaque   annee.



46
Annex 2-4
Page I of 11
CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
POLITIQUE DE LUTTE CONTRE LE SIDA
1.            Depuis 1998, la lutte contre le SIDA au Tchad est entreprise sous l'egide du Comite
National de Lutte contre le SIDA (CNLS) avcc l'assistance de la Commission Technique de Lutte contre le
SIDA (CTLS). La gestion et la misc en ocuvrc dc cctte luttc sont assurees par le Programme National de
Lutte contre le SIDA (PNLS). Des activites d'cducation ct d'information, de contr6le du sang et de
surveillance epidemiologique ont ete cxccutccs dans lc cadre d'un premier Plan a Moven Terme (PMT 1)
couvrant la periode allant de 1990 a 1993. Des contraintes institutionnelles et structurelles majeures ont
entrave l'atteinte des objectifs fixes. Devant l'ampleur de la pandemic, le Gouvernement du Tchad a
organise tout un processus multisectoricl pour la formulation du dcuxieme Plan a Moyen Terme (PMT 2)
pour 1995-1999.
2.             Les objectifs du PMT 2 scront de renforcer Ics activit6s de prevcntion et de developper des
activites pour la reduction de l'impact social et &conomiquc dc l'pidcmie du VIH/SIDA. La prevention de
la transmission du VIH sera prioritaire. Les interventions multisectorielles. intcgrces et deccntralisees,
seront mises en oeuvre afin de faire changer de comportement prcs de 415 000 Tchadiens cxposes a un haut
risque, et d'eviter ainsi autour de 29 000 nouvelles infections par an. D'autre part, des mesures dans le
domaine sanitaire, social et economique scront rcalisces dcs a prcscnt pour cvalucr ct rcduire l'impact de
l'epidemie sur les individus, les families, les communaut6s et Ics scctcurs touchcs.
3.            C'est ainsi quc six Ministeres chefs de filc, coordonnes par Ic CNLS, assureront la
convention sociale et geographique du pays par l'intermediaire de Icurs programmes et projets sociaux et
sanitaires:   Sante Publique,  Communication, Education Nationale, Condition Feminine et Affaires
Sociales, Armees, Plan et Cooperation. Cette approche montre la priorite par Ic Gouvernement a la lutte
contre le SIDA et garantit la meilleure viabilite a sa misc en oeuvrc. Les implications financieres et
techniques sont telles que l'appel a l'aide intemationale et a la participation des ONG sera privilegie en
attendant de developper la mobilisation et l'engagement des collectivites nationales. C'est dans cc contexte
que le Gouvemement est en train de mettre sur pied le Projet Population ct Lutte contre le SIDA avec
I'appui de l'IDA. Les principales causes du probleme du VIH/SIDA sont la transmission sexuelle (97 %),
la coexistence des MST, I'acces difficile aux preservatifs, les pratiqucs mcdicales et traditionnelles
dangereuses. Les principaux impacts dus au problcme actuel et futur par Ic VIH/SIDA sont une surcharge
des services de la sante, alourdissement des depenses de sante, la sur-sollicitation et desintegration des
structures familiales, la marginalisation des orphelins, et ]es atteintes au statut de la femme. Face a ces
problemes, des interventions seront menees aupres des groupes cibles prioritaires: les adolescents et les
adultes.



47
Annex 2-4
Page 2 of 11
4.            Les strategies qui seront developpees pour la prevention de la transmission du VIH et
les actions a mener sont les suivantes:
A. Prevention de la transmission sexuelle du VIH
Pour cette strategie, les actions retenues sont:
a)     Promotion d'un comportement sexuel a moindre risque a travers le renforcement
des campagnes d'education pour la sante.
b)     Promotion de lacces au preservatif en favorisant le developpement du marketing
social des preservatifs.
c)     Promotion du diagnostic et du traitement des MST.
d)     Promotion de l'acces aux conseils et au depistage volontaire du VIH.
B. Prevention de la transmission du VIH par le sang
Pour cette strategie, les actions prevues sont:
a)     Garantie de la securite transfusionnelle au niveau de toutes les structures de sante
du pays.
b)     Garantie du respect des conditions d'asepsie et de sterilisation des actes medicaux
et des pratiques traditionnelles.
C. Prevention de la transmission prenatale du VIH
Pour cette strategie, les actions retenues sont:
a)     Garantie de l'acc&s aux services de planification famniliale et de soins de sante a
toutes les femmes en age de procreer, notamment aux femmes enceintes.
b)     Information des couples seropositifs et des couples discordants de facon a ce qu'ils
adoptent delib&ement un comportement conforme a leur statut serologique.
5.            Les strategies qui seront developpees pour la reduction de l'impact de l'infection par le
VIH sur l'individu, la famille et la communaute et les actions a mener sont les suivantes:
A. Reduction de l'impact sur la sante des seropositifs avec ou sans le SIDA
Pour cette strategie, les actions retenues sont:
a)     Promotion de l'acces aux services de sante en developpant la decentralisation et la
standardisation des soins aux seropositifs et aux malades du SIDA.
b)     Aide aux communautes a garantir les soins aux seropositifs avec ou sans SIDA.
A cette fin, I'accent sera mis sur la creation d'h8pitaux de jour, sur les soins
ambulatoires et sur le developpement des soins a domicile a assise comrnunautaire.



48
Annex 2-4
Page 3 of 11
B. Reduction de I'impact social du SIDA sur les personnes affectees et leur famille
Pour cette strategie, les actions retenues sont:
a)     Garantie des droits individuels des seropositifs et des malades du SIDA afin de les
proteger de la discrimination sociale et professionnelle.
b)     Promotion de I'acces aux services sociaux.
c)     Organisation des associations communautaires afin de promouvoir la solidarite en
faveur des personnes atteintes et de leur familles. L'accent est mis des a present sur
la promotion de l1engagement communautaire et I'appui financier aux micro-
projets allant dans ce sens.
d)     Developpement de 1'encadrement et la garantie des droits des orphelins. Certaines
organisations ont deja developpe des interventions dans ce domaine dans le cadre
de I'aide aux enfants vivant dans des circonstances difficiles. Le renforcement de
cet aspect est retenu dans le cadre du PMT 2.
C. Reduction de l'impact sur les dkpenses publiques, notamment celles du secteur sante
Pour cette strategie, les actions retenues sont:
a)     Renforcement et generalisation de la politique de recouvrement des coats des
services de santc.
b)     Continuation de l'appel a I'assistance internationale pour le financement des
activites sectorielles.
c)     Reorientation des depenses publiques afin de degager les fonds pour appuyer le
budget de la sante sollicite de facon importante pour les besoins en soins des
porteurs de MST, des seropositifs et des sideens.
d)     Renforcement de la politique de medicaments essentiels. Le Ministere de la Sante
Publique entreprend d'inclure dans son programme de couverture nationale en
medicaments essentiels ceux necessaires pour traiter I'ensemble des infections
opportunistes et des MST.
D. Lutte contre la pauvrete
Pour cette strategie, I'action retenue est:
a)     Developpement de projets generateurs de revenus qui devront integrer dans les volets de
vulgarisation une composante relative a la prevention du SIDA.



49
Annex 24
Page 4 of 11
Aspects Politiques
6.             La sensibilisation des strategies et des interventions pour la prevention de la
transmission du VIH et pour la reduction de son impact exige un cadre politique et juridique
clairement defini. Certains aspects culturels et ethiques relatifs a l'infection par le VIH et aux
droits de l'homnme, de la femme et de l'enfant doivent faire l'objet d'engagements politiques et de
dispositions Iegales. Le Gouvemement s'y penche actuellement. 11 s'agit notamment:
a)     Des problmes ethiques lies a l'infection par le VIH et le SIDA
b)     De la promotion du depistage volontaire et l'information des partenaires sexuels
(couples discordants, tests prenuptiaux, prevention de la transmission previsible).
c)     De la reglementation en matiere de prostitution
d)     Du cadre legal de l'assistance aux orphelins et aux meres seropositives separees ou
celibataires
e)     De la reglementation de l'interruption thdrapeutique de la grossesse liee a la
seropositivite au VIH
f)     Du r6le des leaders communautaires.



50
Annex 2-4
Page 5 of 11
INDICATEURS ET BUTS POUR LA PREVENTION DE LA TRANSMISSION DU VIH
1- Connaissances en matieres de Dratigues de Dr6vention
* Indicateur: Pourcentage de la population agee de 15-49 ans citant au moins deux mesures dc
protection acceptables pour eviter l'infection par le VIH.
* But pour 1999: 100%
2- DisDonibilitk et acceDtabilitk du Dr6servatif
a. Approvisionnement en pr6servatifs
* Indicateur : Nombre de personnes sachant ou se procurer un preservatif sur la population totale agec
de 15-49 ans.
* But en 1999: a definir
b. Acces aux preservatifs
* Indicateur : Nombre de personnes pouvant se procurer ou acheter un preservatif a un prix abordable
sur la population totale agee de 15-49 ans.
* But en 1999 : a definir
c. Usage du pr6servatif
* Indicateur : Nombre de personnes figes de 15-49 ans rapportant avoir utilis6 un prcservatif lors du
dernier rapport sexuel sur la population totale supposee exposee a haut risque.
* But pour 1999: 100%
3 - Relations sexuelles occasionnelles
* Indicateur : Nombre de personnes agees de 15-49 ans rapportant au moins une relation sexuelle
occasionnelle au cours des 12 derniers mois sur le total des personnes dc 15-49 ans ayant
ete sexuellement actives durant les 12 derniers mois.
* But en 1999: a definir



51
Annex 2-4
Page 6 of II
4 - Contr6le des MST/VIH
a) Prise en charpe clinique
* Indicateur: Nombre de cas de MST pris en charge selon les normes du PNLS/MST sur le
nombre total des MST diagnostiquees.
* But en 1999: 76%
b) Prevalence des MST chez les femmes enceintes
* Indicateur: Nombre de femmes enceintes agdes de 15 a 24 ans ayant une serologie positive pour
la syphilis sur le nombre total des femmes enceintes agees de 15 a 24 ans testees.
* But en 1999 a definir
c) Prevalence des MST chez les hommes
- Indicateur: Nombre d'hommes ages de 15-49 ans ayant rapporte un episode d'uretrite durant les
12 derniers mois sur le total des hommes ages de 15 a 49 ans.
 But en 1999: a definir
d) Prevalence du VIH chez les femmes enceintes
* Indicateur: Nombre de femmes enceintes agees de 15-24 ans seropositives pour le VIH sur le
total des femmes enceintes agees de 15-24 ans testees dans les cliniques prenatales.
* But pour 1999 a definir
5 - Buts et indicateurs pour la reduction de l'impact individuel et familial de l'epidimie du VIH/SIDA
NB.: L'estimation du nombre de malades vivants sera faite a partir des donnees obtenues par le systeme de
surveillance epidemiologique appliquee au modele de l'OMS/GPA Epimodel.
a - Prise en char2e des malades du SIDA var les services de sante
* Indicateur Nombre de cas de SIDA suivis par les services de sante durant les 12 derniers mois sur le
nombre estime de malades du SIDA vivants.
* Situation en 1993: 36%
* But pour 1999: 60%



52
Annex 2-4
Page 7 of 11
b - Prise en charee des mnalades de SIDA au niveau socio-communautaire
* Indicateur: Nombre de cas de SIDA vivants pris en charge au niveau communautaire par une ONG
ou une association communautaire sur le nombre de cas de SIDA vivants repertories par
le PNLS/MST.
A But en 1999: 30%
c - Prise en charee des membres survivants et notamment des orphelins
* Indicateur Nombre total d'orphelins beneficiant d'une aide apportee dans le cadre des interventions
prevues par le PNLS au cours des 12 derniers mois sur le nombre total estime d'orphelins
pour les 12 demiers mois.
 But pour 1999 a definir



OBJECTIF 2: RENFORCER LES CAPACITES NATIONALES A CONTROLER LA PROPAGATION DU VIH/SIDA/MST
ACTIVITES                           BENEFICES ATTENDUS                            1995                       1996               1997              1998               1999
A) Renrorcement des capacths du
PNLS A g6rer el coordonner Its
wIvtiis de lhue contre It SIDA.
I. Recrutement de specialistes:
* a long terme (I),             * Appui A la gestion des           * Un specialiste en gestion de      * Un specialiste    * Un specialiste   * Un specialiste   * Un sp&cialiste
programmes du PNLS, des projets du  programme et epidemiologic (12     en gestion de      en gestion de     en gestion de      en gestion de
FOSAP et au programme de           mois) recrutt.                      programuiie et en    programme et en   programme et en    programme et en
surveillance des VllIlSIDA/MST.                                        1)idemrologie (12   epid&miologie   epidemniologie (tin  *pidemiologie
mois) recnute.     (uL mOois) recnut.  imiois) recnite  (nin moms) recnute.
* a court temne (3)             * Elaboration dalgorithmes pour les  * lJn specialiste ci orgaimsation du
MST et le SIDA, d'un protocole     systime de transhuision sanguinie (un
d'appui psycho-medico-social       mois) recnlt&
(APMS), d'un plan de developpement
de protocoles d'etudes             * Un specialiste en controle des
operationnelles dans ces domaines.    MST (trois mois) recnut6
* Un sp&cialiste en cliniquc du                                                                               k
Sl)A (trois mois) recrute.                                                                                    Li
2. Formation a letraniger      * Amelioration des competences     * Un cadre national du DSIS en
nationales du DSIS pour la formation  formation en epidemiologie (24
d'un maitre en epid&miologie.      mois)
* Amelioratmon des competences du   * Un cadre national du PNLS ormie                            _
PNLS en gestion du programme       en gestion de programmes (12 mois).
* Renforcement des capacites de    * Un cadre national du PNLS
I'quipe lEC/PNLS en mobilisation    recycle en lEC/MST/SIDA en Afrique
sociale.                           de lOuest.
* Recyclage du technicien          * Un cadre du PNLS (statisticien)                             _
statisticien du PNLS en surveillance   recycle en 6pidemniologie des
et analyse des donnees relatives aux   MST/VIISII>A en Afrique de
VIH/MST/SIDA.                      l'Ouest.
i0 i
o 



-2-
ACTIVITES                     BENEFICES ATTENDUS                              1995                             1996                 1997            1998               1999
3. Fonnation Locale
* Medecins (pnse en charge        * Generalisation de l'utilisation      *  30 medecins fonnes dans la prise   *  30 medecins formins dans     --
MST).                             d'algorithmes adaptes au Tchad pour la  en charge des MS1.                  la pnse en charge des MST
prise en charge des MST.
*  lnfirmiers (prise en charge    * Generalisation de lutilisation       * 75 infinmiers des districts fonnes   *  100 infirmiers des
MST).                             d'algorithtnes pour la prise en charge  dans la prise en charge des MST.    districts forrn6s dans la
des MST.                                                                   prise en charge des MST.
* Mddecins (clinique SIDA).       * Amelioration des capacites de        * 30 medecins fornmes en clin iqtue    *  30 m6cdecins recyclks en
diagnostic et de prise en charge       du SIDA.                            clinique du SIDA.
clinique du SIOA.
* hIfirmiers et assistants sociaux   * Developpernent dans cinq centres    *  30 techniciens (15 intinniers et
en appui psychosocial.            prefectoraux des competences en         15 assistants sociaux) forTnes en
appui psychosocial pour les            conscils psychosociaux.
seropositifs avec ou sans SIDA.
* Cadres prefectoraux (en         * Amelioration des capacites de        * 15 cadres des 15 prefecturcs
gestion de programme du SIDA)    gestion des activites li&es aux          sanitaires formes en gestion de
MST/SIDA dans toutes les               programme.
prefectures.
* Personnel de sante des          * Ameliorer la qualite des prestations   * 7 medecins et 2 fonnateurs                                                *  7 inedccins et
prefectures du Logone Occidental   des soins relatives aux MST/SIDA      prefectoraux Ibormes.                                                         2 foniatetirs
et du Logone Oriental, en ciniquie  dans les centre de sante et h6pitaux                                                                                recycles
MST/SIDA.                         des detix prlefctures.                 *  180 infinniers et techniciens     * 60 innirmiers et                       * 90 infinniers    * 90 iifirmiers
Ionies.                             techniciens formi s.                      recyclks           recycles.
4  Organisation d'un atelier      * Evaluation anntielle des progres     * Elaboration d'utn rapport de                  Idern                Idern          Idem               Idem
annuel pour la revue et la        r6alisds, des contraintes rencontrees et  I'atelier et diffusioii a toties les
reprogrammation des activites du   des resultats des etudes et enquetes  parties int&erssces.
programme national de lutte       par tous les intervenants.
contre le SIDA.
* Exarnen des strategies du PMT2.
* Recommandations et
reprogramnation des activites pour
I'annee suivanite.
CD



-3-
ACTIVITES                      BENEFICES ATTENDUS                      1995                      1996                       1997                       1998                     1999
B) Appui i la recherche
pideninologique, operation-
neDe et socio-econondque.                                                                                                                                    .
I Developpement do           * Armelioration de la qualite    *  14 enquetes           *  14 enquetes sentinelles   * 14 enquetes senti-     *  14 cnquetes senti-     *  14 enquetes senti-
systeme de surveillance      des donnees pour le suivi des    sentinelles r6alis&es (7   realis6es (7 X 80() femmes  nelles realisees (7 X 800   nelles realisees (7 X 800   nelles realises sur (7
sentinelle du                tendances de la prevalence des    X 800 enceintes et 7 X    enceintes et 7 X 400     feimnes enceintes et 7 X    Ieninmes enceintes et 7 X    X 800 femmes encein-
VIl/MST/SfDA                 Vl I/MST par site sentiiielle    400 porteurs de MST).   porteurs de MST).           400 porteurs de MST)       400 porteurs de MST)      tes et 7 X 400 poneurs
de MST).
2 Realisation d'etudes de    * Disposer d'informations sur   *  Une enquEte de         *  tine enquete de         *  Jne enquete de          * Une enquete de           *  Une enquete de
prevalence du VIH/MST        les cornelations entre           prevalence aupres des    pr6valence aupres des      prevalence aupres des      prevalence aupres des     prevalence aupres des
aupres de groupes cibles     comportements de certains        Jeunes                   routiers                    iilitaires                prostitu6es               jeunes
specifiques                  groupes et niveaux de
_revalence des MSI /VI l.
3  R&alisation de deux       * Connaissance et suivi de       *  lJrie enqiijtc ('Al'                             * nce 1 l nqeicte CA I'
enquites CAP                  1'6volution des profils socio-  nationiale realisde                                  naitioriale realisee.
comportementaux relatifs aux
VIHI/MSTI
4. Realisation d'uwe etude    * Caract&risation de la                                                                                        * Etude de mesure des
sur la mesure des [PP        situation en termes d'adoption                                                                                  11'1' ralisee.
de mesures preventives
Ptromues par le PNIS
S. Realisation des ctudes    * Elaboration d'algoritflues,    * Uiie etude pour        * tJIi etudc pour Iclabo-
op&rationnelles              pour le MSTI et le SIDA, et d'un   I'adoption des         iationl d'un ii otocolC poUr
protocole pour I'APMS           algorithnies pour les    I'APMS realisde
Evaluation de la capacitk       MST
predictive positive de la                                * tJne etude pour l'eva-
definition clinique du SIDA et    * Une etude pour       lualion de la definition
adopter apres e~valuation le    I'adoption des           clinique du SIDA realise.
schema therapeutique chez les    algorithmes pour Ie
tuberculeux VIIf positifs.      SIDA                     * Une etude pour la
relation VlirfIubcrcuilose
realisee.
6. Appui a l'etude de        * Analyse de limpact socio-                                                          * Economiste
l'impact socio-economique    economique du SIDA au niveau                                                         iteiiatiotial recrute (3
du SIDA                      individuel, familial,                                                                perso nales/ntois)
conununautaire et macro-                                                            * Etude de l'impact
economigue.                                                                         realisee.
0 X



- 4  -
OBJECTIF 4: PROMOUVOIR LA PARTICIPATION DU SECTEUR PRIVE ET DES ONGS
ACTIVITES                 BENEFICES ATTENDUS                        1995                         1996                      1997                       1998                      1999
Developpement de         * 415,000 1chadienis           *   2 prefectures sonit        * 4 prelectures soil       * 6 prefectures sont      *  10 prefectures sont    *  14 prefectures sont
projets pour l'IEC el    devront benreficier de         chaciie couverte par un        chacuiie couverte par ul   chacune couverle par un   chacune couverte par an   chacunc couverte par un
I'appui psycho-medico-   contacts educatifs,            projet IEC/jeunes.             projet LEC/jeunles         projet IEC/jeunes.        projet IC/jeunes.        projet IFC/jeunes.
social                   informatils, et preventifs
(usage de preservatifs) pour    .  3 prOfecturcs sont        *  3 prd'ectures sont      * 4 prefectures sont       *  5 prefectures sont     *  7 prdekctures sonti
eviter 27 a 29,000 nouvelles   chacune couverie par tn       chacune couverte par un   chacune couverte par un   chacune couverte par un   chacune couverte par un
infections par le VIli.        projet IEC/fenunes libres     projet lEC/fenunes         projet IEC/feimies         projet 11C/Iemmes         projet FEC/femmes
libres                    libres.                    libres                    libres
21,000 familles devraient   . 4 secteurs sociaux sont     *  5 secteurs sociinix     * 6 secleurs sociaux       *  7 secteurs sociaux     *  7 sectetirs sociauix
beneficier d'une assistance    chacun couvert par un projct  soilt cliacIIn colvert pal   soil1 chIacuin cotivert palr   soil( ch.lcoln couvert par   soni chactin couivert par
medico-sociale a base         [ltC/SII)A                     ulii projet IlEC/SII)A.    um projet IEC/SIDA         uon projet II (/SII)A     on projet IEC/SU)A
communautaire pour reduire
'imnpact du SIl)A a leur       *  Un centre d'APMS           *  Un centre d'APMS        .  Un ccntre APMS          .  Un centre d'APMS       *  UJn centre d'APMS
niveau.                        commwuautaire ou              comxiimaulaire est         coilnitiiiatalire est      coiinuLiautaire es(       comounuiautaire est
fonctionnel dans une          Ibnctionnel dans deux      tonctionnel dans 3         fonctionnel dans 4        fonctionnel dans 5
prc-fecture.                  pr6fectures.               prefectures.               prefectures               prefectures.                n
*  Jn projet IEC/mnigrants/   *  Un projet IlEC/         * 2 projets                * 2 projets               *  3 projets
routiers est en cours         inigrants/routiers est en    IEC/inigrants sont en   ElC/migrants sont en       IEC/migrants sont en
d'execution                   cours d'execution.         cours d'extension.         cours d'extension         cours d'extension.
*  2 projets dynamiiisateurs    *  3 projets             *  4 projets               * 4 projets               *  4 projets
sont oprationnels             dynamisateurs sont         dynamnisateurs sont        dynainisateurs sont       dynamisateurs sont
operationnels.            operationnels.             operationnels.            operationnels.
0 



CIIAI)
POIltJLA'l'ION ANI) AI)S CON'I'ROI, PROJFCT
[RAINING lPR(XiRAM
Component/Sub-Coniponent                   Plarticipants                 Training Activity          4 of Participanits       SW            Executing Agency
A POPULAIlON COMPONENT
1) Institutional Strengthening of the        D)ivision Stalf         Statistical data analysis                2                 48               CERPOD)
Dlivision of Population                                          - Population/Development                  2                 24               CERPOD
- P'opulation/l)evelopment                1                 24              IfP/Dakar
- Popiilation progiams                    1                 30             CIl)EP/Louvain
Dreniogriphy                             I                  8               CERPOI)
- Eclloxkship on demography               I                 108            Pans/13cigium
-SUdy 'lour i other  counitries to        I                 1(0               Abroad
gaiii 1rom experience in
populationi piogramns
Project Team          - Procurement                             2                  20                Abroad
- i'roject maniagemileint                 2                  8                Abroad
- Participate in int'l conferences        3                 41                Abroad                  ,
2) Raising Public Awareness           Mass media                   7Seminar                                   30                 30          Plopulation Division
- Opinion leaders               Seminar                                  50                 50          Population Division
- Government and CST            Seiiinar                                 50                 50          Population Division
- Prefects and other officials  Seminiar                                 25                 25          Population Division
- NGOs                          Seminar                                  40                 40          Population Division
Union representatives          Seminar                                 30                 30           Population Division
- Youths, women                - Seminiiar                               50                 50          Population Division
- Represeintatives of the medical   Seinimimar                           50                50          IPopulation Division
prolession
- Fanners                       S Seminar                                5()               50           Population Division
B. AIDS COMPONENT
I) Institutional Strengthening of the    - Regional physicians       STD/AIDS clinical training               8                  8             District Trainer
PNLS and the DSIS                - Nurses and technicians         STD/AIDS clinical training              232               232            District Trainer
- INLS Staff                   - Fellowship in MPII                       I                36                Abroad            >
-[EC                                      I                 12                Region            x
-Epideniiology                            1                 16                Region         tm~
- Epidemiology and statistics             2                 72                Abroad         -
2) Social Marketing                  - Unit Staff                   - Study tours to observe other social      1                 6                 Abroad         o
markeling programs
- Procurement and MIS                     1                  3                Abroad
- Promotional activities                  1                  2                Region



CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT                                                                                                                                        %      % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                                                                          (CFAF '000)                            (USS '000)              Foreign    Base
Local       Foreign       Total        Local      Foreign      Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Reinforce the national capacity to implement the national population policy
1 Strengthening the national capacity to undenake population-related activities           1,043,608 9    893 364 5   1 936 973 4     2 037 3     1 744 0     3 781 3       46       15
2 Implementing a public awareness program and dissemination of the population policy         31,886 0   1.331 100 0   1 362 986 0       62 2     2 598 5     2 660 8       98       11
3 Supporting population-related studies and research                                        237.018 4     73 837 5     310 855 9       462 7       144 1      606 8        24        2
Subtotal                                                                                  1 312 513 3  2 298 302 0   3 610 815 3     25623       4,486 7     7 048 9       64       28
B. Strengthen the national capacity to contain the spread of HIV/AIDSISTDs
1 Institutional strengthening of MOPH                                                       630 491 9    706.247 5    1 336,739 4    1 230 8     1 378 7     2 609 5       53       11
2 Supporting epidemiological operational, and socio-economic studies and research         1,269 815 8    395,581 3   1,665.397 1     2 478 9       772 2     3 251 1       24       13
Subtotal                                                                                  1,900 307 7   1101,828 8    3,002,136 4    3709 7      2r151 0     5,860 7       37       24
C. Promote the participation of the private sector and NGOs In population,
Family Planning, and HIVIAIDS/STDs
1 Population Activities                                                                     307,500 0    307 500 0     615 000 0       600 3       600 3     1.200 6       50        5               00
2 AIDS Activities                                                                          1,120,970 0  1,101 080 0   2,222 050 0    2,188 3     2,149 5     4,337 8       50       17
Subtotal                                                                                   1,428,470 0   1,408,580 0   2 837 050 0   2.788 6     2,749 8     5,538 4       50       22
D. Put in place a social marketing program for the promotion of condom use                   1,064,324 3  2.203 904 4   3 268 228 7    2,077 7     4,302 4     6,380 1       67       26
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                         5 705.615 3  7,012,615 1  12,718,230 4    11,138 3    13 689 8    24 828 2       55      100
Physical Contingencies                                                                      196,247 0    296,820 9     493,067 9       383.1       579 4      962 6        60        4
Price Contingencies                                                                         378,643 5    371,424 1     750,067 6       739 2       7251      1,464 3       50        6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                          6,280,506.8  7,680,860.1  13,961,366.0    12,260.6    14,994.4    27,255.0       55      110
CrD<
_ 



CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Project Components by Year - Investment/Recurrent Costs
(US$ '000)                                                                                                          Totals Including Contingencies
51I96     96/97      97;98      98/99      99100       Total
A. Strengthen the national capacity to implement the national population policy
1. Strengthening the ntl capacity to undertake population-related activities
investment Costs                                                                                  962 5      379 4      478 9      327 0      407 5     2,555 1
Recurrent Costs                                                                                   359 5      3241       307 7      334 6      316 9     1 642 7
Subtotal                                                                                           1322 0      703 4      786 5      651 6      724 3     4197 8
2. Implementing a public awareness program and dissemination of the population policy
Investment Costs                                                                                  403 8      523 0      635 3      733 6      854 3     3 150 0
3. Supporting population-related studies and research
Investmne'it Costs                                                                                480 6      218 7                                -       69 3
Subtotal A                                                                                           2 206 3    1445 2    1 421 9    1 395 2    1 578 6     8,0471
B. Strengthen the nt'l capacity to contain the spread of HIVIAIDSISTDs
1. Institutional strengthening of MOPH
Investment Costs                                                                                  763 5      307 0      141 6      155 4       96 3     1 463 7
Recurrent Costs                                                                                   285 2      270 2      274 4      278 3      282 3     1 390 5
Subtotal                                                                                           1048 7      577 2      416 0      433 7      378 6     2,854 3                                    en
2. Supporting epid., operational, and socio-economic studies & research
Investment Costs                                                                                  738 0      7031       755 5      822 0      712 4     3,731 0
Subtotal B                                                                                           1786 7    1,280 3    1 171 5    1 255 7    1,091 0     6 585 3
D. FOSAP
I Population activities
investment Costs                                                                                  2401       2401       2401       2401       2401      1 200 6
2. AIDS activities
Investment Costs                                                                                  5191       6584       8532    1047 8    1 2703        43488
Subtotal D                                                                                            759 2      898 6    1093 3    1.287 9    1510 4       5 549 4
C. Put in place a social marketing program for the promotion of condom use
Investment Costs                                                                                   1512 2      956 2    1,011 0      898 0      904 7     5 282 1
Recurrent Costs                                                                                     3401       350 4      358 9      366 8      374 9     1,791 1
Subtotal C                                                                                           1852 3    1306 6    1.369 9    1 264 8    1,279 6      7 073 2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                                  6,604.6    4,930.7    5,056.5    5,203.6    5,459.5    27,255.0
Total Investment Costs                                                                             5 619 8    3 986 0    4 115 5    4 223 8    4 485 4    22 430 6
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                               984 8      944 7      941 0      979 8      9741      4 824 4
o 0
CA 



CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Components by Financler                                                                                                                                                                                                Local
(USS '000)                                                                            Government               IDA                KiW             UNFPA            Communttles              Total                     (ExCI.
Amount      X       Amount       %      Amount       X    Amount    X        Amount       X       Amount       X      For. Exch.    Taxes)
A Reinforce the national capaity to Implement the national population pollcy
1 Strengthening the national capacity to undertake populaton-related actMhes       6110      146       35235      839           -        -    634       15           -        -     4,1978      154      19401       2,2577
2 Implementing a public avareness program and drsseminat,on of the population pocicy  0 0              31341      99 5          -        -    15        0 5          -              3,150 0     116      3 078 7        713
3 Supporting populabtion-related studies and research                                  -        -       699 3    100 0                           -            -                       699 3      2 6       162 7       536 6
Subtotal                                                                           611 0      7 6      7 357 0    914           -              79 2     1 0          -        -       ,047 1    29 5     5,1S1 5     2. 657
B. Strengthen the national capacity to contain the spread of HIVIAIOSISTDs
1 Institutonal strengthening of MOPH                                               524 6     18 4     2.329 7     81 6          -        -       -        -          -              2,854 3     10 5     1 510 2     1,344 0
2 Supporting epidemiological, operational, and socio-econon,c studies and research   00        6       3,731 0    10                                                                3,731 0     13 7       866 3     2,864 7
Subtotal                                                                           524.6      6.0      6.060 7    92 0          -                                             -     6.585 3     24 2     2.376 5     4,208 7
C. Promote the participatlon of the private sector and NGOs In population,
Faimly Planning, and HIVIAIDSJSTDs
1 Population Actrviies                                                                 -        -       995 6     82 9          -        -       -               205 0     17 1      1,200 6     4 4       600 3       600.3
2 AiDS Actities                                                                       0 0       -      3,638 2    83.7          -        -        -       -      710 6      16 3     4,348 6    16 0      2.151.7     2,197 1
Subtotal                                                                             0 0        -      4,633 8    835           -        -       -        -      915 6     16 5      5,549 4    20 4     2,751.9     2,797 4
D. Put in placa social marketing progrm forthe promotion of condom use                1424      20       2,4157     34.2    4,397.7    622          -       -       1174      17       7,073 2    260       4,6844      2,388.8
Total Disbursement                                                                   1,277 9     4 7    20.467 2     751     4,397 7     16.1    79 2      0 3    1,033 0      3 8    27,255 0    100 0    14,994 4    12,260 6
o X



CHAD
Population and AIDS Control Project
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers                                                                                                                                              Local
(USS 000)                                          Government              IDA                KfW             UNFPA           Communities             Total                     (Excl.
Amount      %      Amount       %      Amount       %    Amount    %        Amount    %        Amount       %      For. Exch.   Taxes)
A. Civil Works                                      0 0        -        160     188        69 2     81 2                                            85 2      0 3       63 1        22 0
B.Goods
1 Equipment                                         -        -       510      18 3      227 6    81 7        -        -         -        -       278 6     1 0       278 6
2 Materials and furnture                          00                167 5    100 0          -        -       -        -          -               167 5     06        122 0        45 4
3 Vehicles                                          -        -      577 9    65 2       308 4    34 8        -        -          -       -       886 3     3 3       886 3
Subtotal Goods                                      0 0               796 4    59 8       536 0     40 2                -          -       -    1,332 4       4 9     1,286 9       45 4
C. Condoms                                            -        -      904 5     55 0      740 0     45 0           -         -             -    1,644 5       6 0     1,644 S
D. Contraceptives                                     -        -    3,0480    1000            -        -                                         3,0480     11 2      3,0480
E. Other Consuhants'Services
1. National
Court terme                                     0 0               455 9   100 0           -        -       -        -          -       -       455 9      17       115 6       340 3
Long term                                       0 0        -       84 9   100 0           -       -        -        -         -        -        84 9     0 3        19 7        65 2
Subtotal National                                 0 0        -      540 8    100 0                       -            -          -       -       540 8     2 0       135 3       405 5
2. Intemational
Shortterm                                       00         -    1,1861      956        550      44         -        -         -        -    1,241 1      46       1,0515       1896
Long term                                      -0 0     -0 0      217 8     19 0      928 5    81 0        -        -         -        -    1,146 3      4 2     1,146 3
Subtotal International                            -0 0    -0 0     1,403 9    58 8      983 5     41 2       -        -          -       -    2,387 4       8 8     2,197 8      189 6
3. Contractual Personnel                            -        -      869.4    67 7       414 7    32 3        -        -          -       -    1,2841        4 7          -    1,2841
Subtotal Other Consultants' Services                -0 0    -0 0     2,814 2    66 8    1,398 2    33 2             -              -       -    4,212 4      15 5     2,3331     1,879 2
F. Tralning
Local                                             00         -      1846      816        411      182      06       03           -       -       2262       08        397        1866
Abroad                                              -        -      513 3    93 4           -        -    36 4      6 6          -       -       549 7      2 0      5497            -
SubtotalTraining                                    00         -       6979     899        41 1      53     370       48           -       -       7759       28       5893        1866
G. Studies & Research                               00         -    4,4303    1000            -        -       -        -          -       -    4,430 3      163      1,029 0    3,401 3
H. FOSAP
Population ActMties                                 -        -      995 6     82 9          -        -       -        -     205 0     171      1,200 6      4 4      600 3       600 3
H. FOSAP                                                       _   3,5533     833           -                               7106      167      4,2639      156     2,131 9     2131 9
Sub Population Actrvities                             -              4,548 9    83 2              -        -            -     915 6     16 8     5,464 4    20 0      2,732 2    2,732 2
I. IEC                                              00                4581      391       6964      595     158       1 4          -       -    1,1704       43        5550        6154
J. Recurrent Costs
1. Operating Costs
O&M of vehicles, matenals, & eq               258 2     12.4     1,169 6    56 3      558 0    26 9     188       0 9      71 5      3 4     2,0761      7 6       979 2     1,096 9
Consumables                                    27 8      2.1      879 4     66 8      358 8    27 3      4 8      0 4      46 0      3 5     1,316 8     4 8       430 6       886 2
Subtotal Operating Costs                        286 0      8 4     2,049.0    60 4      916 9     27 0    23 6      0 7     117 4      3 5     3,392 9    12 4      1,409 8    1,983 1
2. Supervision missions                          15 8      4 3      353 8    950            -        -     2 8      0 8          -       -       372 4      1 4       78 3       294 1
Subtotal RecurrentCosts                           3018       80      2,4028     638       9169      244     264       07       1174      31      3,765 3     138      1,4881     2,2772
K. Ministry Personnel                             9761    100 0            -       -          -        -       -        -          -       -       9761       3 6          -       9761
L PPF                                                 -        -       3501    100 0          -        -       -        -          -       -       3501       1 3      225 0       1251
Total                                            1,277.9      47    20,467.2    751    4,397.7    161        79.2      03    1,033.0      38                1000    14,9944    12,2606
o X



CHAD
Population and AIDS Control Project
Expenditure Accounts Breakdown
(USS '000)                                                        Base Cost              Physical Contingencies      Price Contingencies                 Total Incl. Cont.
Local                         Local                     Local                            Local
(Excl.                For.   (Excl.              For.   (Excl.                          (Excl.
For. Exch.   Taxes)      Total     Exch.  Taxes)   Total   Exch.  Taxes)    Total    For. Exch.   Taxes)           Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                      60.7       20 7        81A4      1 2     0 4       1.7     1.2     0.9         2 1       631         22.0        85 2
B.Goods
1 Equipment                                      2505           -       250.5    22.8        -     22.8      5 4       -        5A4       278.6           -       278.6
2. Materials and furniture                       126.2       437        1699      122      43       16.5     33      2.9         6.2      141 8       508         192.6
3. Vehicles                                      816.1          -       816 1    35.9        -      35.9    34.2       -        34.2      886.3           -       886.3
SubtotalGoods                                    1,1928        43.7      1,2365     70.9     4.3      75.2    42.9     2.9        459      1,306.7       50.8     1,357.5
C.Condoms                                        1,521.7          -      1,521 7       -       -         -   122.8       -       122.8     1,644.5          -     1,644.5
D.Contraceptives                                 2,571.0          -      2571.0   2571         -    257.1   219.9        -      219.9      3,048.0          -     3048.0
E. Consultants' Services
1. National
Shortterm                                      101.2      290.0       391.3      51      14.5     19.6     71     30.0        37.1      113.4       3345        447.9
Long term                                       17.6       564         74.0      0.9     2.8       3.7     1 3     6.0         7.3       19.7        65.2        84 9
Subtotal National                                118 8      346.4       465.2      5.9    17.3      23.3     8.4    36.0        44 3      133.1       399.7       532.8
2. International
Shortterm                                    1,121.1      232.1      1,353.2    45.2     8.7      53.9    51.2    12.8        64.0     1,217.5      253.6     1,471 1
Long term                                    1,030.7          -      1,030 7    51.5       -      51.5    64.1       -        641      1,146 3          -     1,146.3
Subtotal International                         2,151.8      232.1      2,3839     96.8     8.7    105.5   115.3    12.8        128.1    2,363.8       253.6     2,617 4
3. Contractual personnel                             -    1,113.4      1,113.4       -    72.5      72.5       -   118.2       118.2          -     1,3041      1,3041
SubtotalConsultants'Services                     2,270.6    1,691.9      3,9625    1027     98.5    201.2   1236    167.0       290.6      2,4969     1,9574      4,454.4
F. Training
Local                                             353       161 9       197.2      1.8      81       9.9     26      166        192        39.7       186.6       226.2
Abroad                                           500.8          -       500 8    25.0         -     25.0    23.9        -       23.9      549 7           -       549.7
Subtotal Training                                  536.1      161.9       6980      26.8      81     34.9    26.4    16.6        43.0       5893        186.6       775.9
G. Studies & Research                              9164      2,941.6     3,858.0    53.0   170.2    223.2    59.6   2895        349 1      1,029.0    3,401.3     4,430.3
H. FOSAP
Populaton Actvities                              600.3      600.3      1,200 6       -       -         -       -       -           -      600.3       600.3     1,200 6
AIDS Activibes                                 2,131.9     2,131.9     4,263.9       -       -         -       -       -           -    2,131.9     2,131.9     4,263.9
Subtotal FOSAP                                   2,732.2    2,732.2      5,464.4       -            -            -       -           -    2,732.2    2,732.2      5,464 4
I. IEC                                             521.2      559.7      1,080.8     1.4     3.1       4.5    32.4    527        85.1       555.0      615.4      1,170.4
TotallnvestmentCosts                              12,322.7    8,1516      20,474.3   5132    284.7    797.8   628.9   529.6    1,1585    134647         8,965.9    22,430.6
II. Recurrent Costs
1. Operating Costs
O&Mofvehicles, materials, &eq                    903,7      9800       1,883.8    436     474       91.0    633    101.0       164,3     1,010.7    1,1284      2.1391
Consumables                                      393.6      776.3      1,169.9    192      383      57.5    278     816        1094       4406        896.2      1,3368
2 Supervision missions                              69.8      254.3       324.1      3.5    12.7      16.2     5.0    27.1        32.1       78.3       294.1       372.4
Subtotal RecurrentCosts                          1,3671      2,010.6     3,377.8    66.3    98.5    164.7    96.2   209.6        305.8     1,529.6    2,318.7     3,848.3
K. Ministry Personnel                                  -      976.1       976.1        -       -         -       -       -           -          -      976.1        976.1
Total Recurrent Costs                              1,367.1     2,9867      4,353.8    66 3    98 5    164.7    96.2   209.6       3058       1,529.6    3,294 8     4,824 4
Total                                              13,689.8   11,138.3    24,828.2   579.4   383.1    962.6   725.1   739.2    1,464.3    14,994.4   12,260.6    27,255.0
r, =
 1>



63
Annex 4-1
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan
1 .1        IDA Supervision Input. Regular supervision needs are described in Table
I of this Annex. In addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, terms of
reference, annual work plans and audits, and procurement and disbursement actions are
estimated to require eight staffweeks of various specialist inputs a year which are not
included in Table 1.
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    Progress reports would be submitted twice a year, in April and October.
They would include a summary of implementation under each project
component, financial statements on project expenditures, updated project
implementation and procurement schedules, as well as the status of
contract advertising, bidding, awards and completion dates and compliance
with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement. The PCT
would collect inputs from each responsible MOH Directorate and other
implementing agencies and prepare the reports.
(b)   Joint annual reviews. Once a year, no earlier than October, and no later
than December 31, the PCT will organize a joint IDA/Government review
of project implementation based on: (i) the progress report in the above
paragraph which, for the purposes of the annual review, would also include
an annual work program and budget for the next project year; (ii) the AIDS
budget of each of the lead ministries for the next year; (iii) a status report
of the FOSAP projects, and (iv) the status of monitoring indicators.
(c)   Mid-Term Review. In addition, the PCT would carry out, jointly with
IDA, and, to the extent available with other donors affiliated with the
project, not earlier than October 1 and not later than December 31, 1997, a
mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the project. The
review would cover all aspects of the project, and will be made on the basis
of a report prepared 45 days earlier by the PCT. Based on the review, the
MSP shall promptly prepare an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for the
further implementation of the project and shall thereafter implement such
action plan.
(d)   The PCT would be responsible for coordinating IDA supervision missions
and participating in them.
(e)   Project Completion Report. Within six months of the Credit closing
date, a project completion report, and a plan for the future operation of the
project, prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA, would be transmitted to IDA.



64
Annex 4-1
Page 2 of 2
SUPERVISION PLAN
II)A FISCAIL
Yl-AR (FY)                                                                            STAIF
ANI) APPROX                AC'I'IVI'I'Y                  SKILL REQUIREMENTS            WI'EKS
FY 96     CONI)IT'ION OF EIFFECTIVENESS.       I)ROCURJ'ME'N''/IMPlIEMIEN'I'A'I'ION,  6
JILY 95     PROJECTL AUNCII WORKSHOP AND        I)ISI3URSEMI'NT, POPULATION,
FIRST SUPE'RVISION MISSION 'O       AIDS, ANI) I'ROJEI'C'I' MANA(iIEME.N'I'.
REVIEW PROJECT START-UP AND
PROCIURI MEINT
I SI' OIN'I' ANNI JAI REVIEW MISSION:                                     6
OCT. - NOV.   REVIEW PROGRESS OF PAST SIX         POPULATION, AI)S,
1995      MON'I' IS, WORKPILAN ANI) 3UDGI,T    I'OCURE.ME.N'FT/MPI.lEMEFN'I'A''ION,
FIOR NEXT YEAR                      TRAINiNG, IFC
SUPERVISION MISSION                                                        4
APR -MAY                                          SAME AS AB3OVE
1996
6
FY 97     2NI) JOINT ANNUAI RE,VIEW MISSION:   POIPULATION, AIDS,
OCI. -NOV.   RE.VIEW PROGRESS OF) PAST SIX        PR1OCURIEMlENTI'IMPLEMENTFATI'ION,
1996      MONTI IS, WORKPLAN AND BUDGET        T'RAINING, ITC
FOR NEXT YEAR
4
APR. - MAY   SIII'ERVISION MISSION                SAME AS ABOVE
1997
6
I'Y 98    MID-'IERM REVIEW: COMPRE.1E1NSIVE'  SAME AS ABOVE' + FINANCIALI
OCT. - NOV    REVIEW OF PROJECT INPUTS,           ANALYST
1997      OPERAI'IONS AND OUTCOMES AND
RESTRIJCTU'. PROJECT IF
NECESSARY
4
AP'R. - MAY    SUPERVISION MISSION                SAME AS ABOVE'
1998'
6
FY 99     3RD) JOINT ANNUAI. RI`V-i.W MISSION    SAME AS ABOVE
OC'I' -NOV
1998
4
APR]  - MAY   SUPERVISION MISSION                 SAME AS ABOVE
1 999                                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
6
FY 200()   4I-1 JOINT ANNIIAI, REVIEW MISSION    SAME AS ABOVE
OCI. - NOV
1 999
4
APR. - MAY    SUPERVISION MISSION                 SAME AS ABOVE
2000
6
FY 20() I    PROJECI COMI'I.ITION MISSION       TO BE DETERMINED
NOV. - DEC,
2000



CHAD
OPUJtATION AND A106 CONTFo)L PROJCT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS I PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Prn-prol.ct                                          Pr olct Yost                                            Total       Procure          Finn -Ing
1 t__  1  DS__  1994  199"      1998t              19991/9           199991 00                        P.rrne         -4nl            Alloc.tlon
Quarers t.    2 L     2          L 4    3  t4 112t.2. 1 3.14..    ..L.t..2At.3.. 1 L4.  1..2 -3..L4..  ..1.t2.L.3.. L4  USS0         Method           Iutr ooo
Board
Slgfletur.ISIIactlo.n.aaIClo.lng                      KK                                                                ______.__                                   _-_________
A. G0ODS                                                                                                                                        1,334
1. 0fke EquIprmnt & Supptlo-                                                                                                                                       44t
11 Office e   qiprrn A &supple                             ddbzearr~w                                                                                           281   LCBflA<W      IDA =53, KIW  228
1 2 Materios end Furitre                                                                                                                                        167      LCB               IDA
2. Vehkies.1111orlcycclie                                                                                                                                          *8ti
2.1 Veiesknolorcyces                                        debbeanwesmw                                                                                         885   ICBM(I       IDA  578, KIVW  308
22 Mops UD                                                                                                                                                               LCB               IDA
B CONTRACEPTIVES                                 dS_teeancmwww                        r dbeecrnrww             wo          __    3,048 _                                         IDA
C CONDOMS                                                                                           _                                             645   NBFrKNV              IDA
d tWd docs - b biddng period - e ek,eTon - e Hert     p'          t cor*tqdIsIgn    'm b Wr zaebomm 1   n6 g -          ve worrs, 5upIflstoEoweIry
D. SPECiAUSTS SERVICES/STUDIES                                                                                                                             3.174
LOUTORs&Sh L for Approvel   idb
AwardCortdct resiw by IDA    cec
Internatlonal Services                                                                                                                               2387
A, POPULATION POUCY
1. Institutional Stengthening of the                                                                                                                              TD2
Population Divielon
- CERPOD                                                  W  ww  ow   _          _     ww     ww      w _       w-   w                    w                   264      OTH              IDA
- IEC                                                                       ww                ww                                                              136     OTH               IDA
A-coagotytn                       K_w                                      -_                  w                 WW                                           159      OTH              IDA
- Prored rrVd-tebs 0n  .lon                                                                          ---n                                                     134      oTH              IDA
- Pn*rct Preperelon (PPf)                      _W                                                                                                              35      OTH               IDA
BE HNV/AFDSISTDo                                                                                                                                                   194
1. Institutlonal Stmrnglhoing of the
PNLS`DStS
- Assistance Epl4b n PNLSADSIStfCT                                                                                                                            390      OTH               IDA
- STDJAJDS Prognm Management                                                                  w                                    w                           52     OTH                IDA
- OCrgwzton of th bbod 8-ro1non                          w                                                                                                      16     OTH               IDA
neloI sWen
-   Srzrinion of th AIDS coetwnent                       ow                                                                                                    32      OTH              IDA
- Trnitgkesearch AiDS cirrc                               -*                                                                                                    4      OTH              IDA
- Preerrlom PMT2 (PPF)                          w                                                                                                              90      OTH              IDA
C. SOCIAL MARKETiNG PROGRAM                                                                                                                                       1,548
Social rWleln  ac es9                                                                                                                                       1,474     NBF              K1W
- AUL1                                                                                                                                                        74 N4     F               KIW
Locel Sromices                                                                                                                                    540
A, POPULATION POUCY
1. -tiltultonal Strengthening of the                                                                                                                              204
Populatlon Dlvllon
- Procurenern                                              ww                 we                w                                                                 8     OTH               IDA
AuhS1                                                                     w                  w                 w                 w                  w          196     OTH               IDA
B. HiVIAIDS/STDN                                                                                                                                                                                                               O 
1. Institutlonal Strengthening of the                                                                                                                              25
PNLS&DSIt
- DSIS                                                                                                                                                          26     OTH               iDA
C FOSAP                                                                                                                                                             85
* Fund Metne__ w_w                                                           vrw                    vw                                w_ww                     85   OTH                 IDA
dTORs-b b'dorrlod-. cveluton A Bt* tr.                        c Contract sigeure-r exectonos1 erlces



Pre-project                                       Project Year                                               Totb        Procure          Financing
1994           1995196           199W617            1997198           119999            1 999100        Praymnt       -mont           Allocaton
Quarter r .11.2..t3.1A4    . 1..2..1.3_14.4..         1 4                         . 1               .121..2..1.3.14..  UsSooo      Method           (Usvooo
E. TRAINING                                                                                                                                        776
AbroadfRegional                                                                                                                                     550
A. POPULATION POLICY                                                                                                                                                3
1. Instittonal Strengthening of the                                                                                                                               385
Population Division
Sttt date analysis                                            w                                                                                                  11     N8F              UNFPA
- Popuabtronldeelopment                                        w                                                                                                  11     NSF              UNFPA
- Populatiorndevelopnent                                       w                                                                                                  15     NSF              UNFPA
Stucdy k,r to obserm poxpulabon programs                      w                  w                 w                 w                  w                        55     OTH                DA
Denmogrphy                                                         _                  _                 _                                                         4     OTH               JDA
- Demography                                                   w                  w                                                                               99     OTH               IDA
Irnplemerntion of popuibon policy program                     w                  w                 w                  w                 w                        55     OTH               IDA
- internatonal confernce                                          w                  w                 w                 w                 w                     129     OTH               IDA
- Procurement                                                     w                  w                 w                 w                                         4     OTH               IDA
Protect Managenent                                               w                  w                                                                             2     OTH               FDA
S. HIVIAIDSISTDa                                                                                                                                                    164
1. Inatntutanal Strengthening of tie
PNLS1DSIS                                                                                                                                                                                                         0>
- MPH program                                                        _                                                                                             32     OTH               IDA
IEC                                                              w                                                                                                3      OTH               IDA
- Epidemiokogy                                                    w                                                                                                 4     OTH               IDA
Masters in Epidlstist                                                                                                                                            65 es   0TH               IDA
- Other tninng for DSIS                                                                                                                                            ea1  0  OTH              IDA
C. SOCIAL MARKETING PROGRAM                                                                                                                                          13
- Training for Marketing Unit stal                                                                                                                                 1      NBF               NBF
Local                                                                                                                                          226
A. POPULATION POtlCY                                                                                                                                                 55
1. Insttutional Stngthening of the                                                                                                                                 55
Populaton Division
- Seminar on integrabng demog variables                                                           w                 w                 w                            31     OTH                IDA
into planil programs
- Seminar on Populabon & Delopment                                                w                                    w                                           24     OTH               IDA
B. HlVIAIOSISTDO                                                                                                                                                    110
1. InsftrtlonaI Strengthening of the
PNLStDSIS
Worsiops on Nabonal AIDS Pogram                                             w                 w                 w                  w                 w            67     OTH               IDA
- Worshop on STD/AIOS clinic                                                                                        w                                               3     OTH               IDA
- Woslhop on ST70AIDS clinic                                w                  w                                    w                 w                             0     OTH               IDA
C. SOCIL MARKETING PROGRAM
- Training hr Marketing Unit stall                                                                                                                                 55     NBF               KIW
0 1
1-h N)



Prm-project                      ________Project Year                   ________Total                                         Procure           Finvanclng
1994            II995196            1996197           11997198            19913199          11999)00         Payment        ..entn           Allocation
Qualrters  ..1.I.2.1I.3.1.I.  .1i..2.4-.3-11A4..    ...I..2-3..I.  4 I       1 4       . tI..I....         ..2..I..3.1.4..   USS-000      Method            (SOO
F. STUDIES & RESEARCH                                                                        ______________ _______4430   ____
LOITfORs/Sh L br Appr,'                   ddb
AwiirdtConeci re.,I ~byIDA                    eec___________
A. POPULATION POLICY69
*MignifionfJUrtanlzalon                                                                                                                                                216      OTH                IDA
*Cents.4 enalysis                                                                                                                                                       58      OT-I               IDA
* en,og srn"y                                                          w~m423                                                                                                   OTH                IDA
S. HIVIAIC)S/STDs                                                                                                                                                        3.735     0TH                IDA
*Sentinel system                                                                                     w.w#w VW652                                                                0Th                IDA
*Sursys tronswmsales                                                                                                                                                  2727      OTh                IDA
*KAP                                                                   ww~153                                                                                                   OTH                IDA
*Priority prewention indicators measures                                                                                                                                 so     0ThA               IDA
-STDs algoxithms                                                                                                                                                          a     0TH                IDA
*AIDS algornthmns                                                                                                                                                         6     0TH                 IDA
-APMS protocol                                                                                                                                                            a     0TH                 IDA
* llAuberculo. relaionship                                                                                                                                                6     0Th                 IDA
*Epidem. research                                                                w~w6                                                                                           01Th                IDA
-I-Jealth centers mnanagerment lv                                                                                                                                        24    O0TH                 IDA
B eneficiaries ass  iment of1 heath centems                                                                                                                              12     0TH                 IDA
in the sLahelian zore                                                                                                                                                  51     0Th                IDA
*Dislri hospitals mnanagemrent                                                                                           a________'A                                            0TH      I          IDA
13. IEC                                                                                                                                              I I70
A. POPULATION POLICY
11. Public Awareness-Ralslrrg Program                                                                                                                                    102
-Seminars on National Populabion Poiscy                                             -73  OTIAJUNFPA   IDA  8 2, UNFPA  1 i1
-RadoroTV ectr"ties                           ~                                     ~      w    w    ~    ~     *           ~ ~ ~~28  OTI-IJNPA    IDA = 24; UNFPA   5
C. SOCIAL MARKETING PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                Bel
- Pmr.omaonal actretres                                                                                                                    ________881                          NBF                K(1W
H.  FOSAP                                      5__ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _,465
I. Population ActIvtIes                                        vwnv1we1wnww~        vw%               VfV*frN%W~WVW       wa1-w Vey^w*wffww                             1,201 0Th/Commiu  IDA = 1.0, Corn =201
2. AIDS ActlItIes                        ~w w w                                                         ~                   w w w w          w4,284 OTHI-Comnru   IDA = 3,500. Corn =784
I OPERATING COSTS                                    _______                                ______________                                                 5,650,
)DA                                                   w w        w~we ~                                                             W W         #4.451                 OTH
UJNFPA                                                                                                                                                          51     NBF
commurrntres                                                                       v                                  ~    '                                  117      NBF
GOVT                                                  ____________ lwwwwww    lwwwswwwm                          Iw-4www     iw ww.w                         1.279     NBF
J. PPF REFINANCING                 ____________________________________________                                                                               5       0Th
Total IDA                                                                                              1 9,440
Not BanIk-fintancedl: .1(1W                                                                                              4.220
- ovt                                                                                                  1,264
* Communities                                                                                           i,oso
-UNFPA                                                                                                     70
TOTAL COST                                                                                             27 2551_____________
id,TORs- b b.ddingpernod.- .evluation -A.SankinGoxI appr.         c: contrac signature - w. execution eq services
CAD
0I-L



CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Disbursement Profil
Disbursements                 Profile
100% IPopulation ard A.ds Control Project
IDA fiscal years                                           Regiooal                                                                    - Regional Sector Profile 
and quarters      By Quarter   Cumulative   Creddt         Sector                               90%
(US$ -irlion) US$  I011o      1%)          I%E                                 80%
1996          1                                       0%            0%                                         
2                                       0%            0%
3               0.2         0 2         1 %           3%                       et    70%
0 4           4                0 2        0 4         2%            6%
1997          1                0 5        0 9         5%            6%                        t     60%
2               05          1 4         7%           6%
3               0.7         2.1        11%            6%                       trL                                                                                                                                                      0 
2 4           4                07         2 8        14%            6%                        e     50%0
1998          1                0a9        3 6        19%            8%
2               0.8         4 4       23 %           10%                            d4%
3               0 8         5 2       27%            12%                             40%
3.2           4                08         6.0        31%           14%
1999          1                10         7 0        36%           16%                        ?L    30%
2               10          890       41S%           18%
3               1 5         9 S       49%           24%                        .     20%
5 0           4                15        1 1 0       57%           30%                       .2    20%
2000          1                15        125         64%           36%                        E
2               15         140        72%           42%                        Q     10%
3               1.3        15 3       79%           48%
5 6           4                1 3       16 6        86%           54%
2001          1                1 1       177         91%           60%                               0%
2               07         184        95%           66%                                  1996               1997               1998               1999               2000               2001
3               05         18.9       97%           70%
128           4                0.S       19 4       100%           74%                                                                              Fiscal Year (Exercice)
o   -4
dist, els~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



69
Annex 4-4
Page l of3
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
"Plan d'activites 1995-1999", PNLS, Tchad, 1995.
Rapport de Mission "Interventions multisectorielles: I'approche par projets
dynamisateurs", N'Djamena, 1994.
"Programme Travail/Budget r6vise de l'ASTBEF suite a la devaluation du Franc CFA",
N'Djamena, 1994.
"Projet de lettre de politiques sectorielles", Gouvernement du Tchad, 1994.
"Statuts revises"de 1'ASTBEF, N'Djamena, 1994.
"Le CILONG en bref', N'Djamena, 1994.
"Arrete No. 205/PM/MSP/94 portant adoption du Plan a Moyen Terme de lutte contre le
SIDA (1995-1999)", Republique du Tchad, Ministere de la Sante Publique, N'Djamena,
1994.
Rapport final de la "Reunion de mobilisation des ressources pour le financement du Plan a
Moyen terme de lutte contre le SIDA 1995-1999", Republique du Tchad, Ministere du
Plan et de la Cooperation, N'Djamena, Octobre 1994.
"Activity Report 1993" CERPOD, Bamako, Aout 1994.
"Loi No. 025/PR/94 portant adoption de la declaration de politique de population du
Tchad", Republique du Tchad, Presidence de la Republique, N'Djamena, 22 juillet 1994.
"Accord de projet: Appui a l'Unite de Population pour la mise en oeuvre de la Declaration
de Politique de Population", N'Djamena, Juillet 1994.
"Accord de projet: Education a la vie familiale et en matiere de population a l'ecole entre
le gouvernement de la Republique du Tchad et le Fonds des Nations Unies pour la
Population (FNUAP)", N'Djamena, Juin 1994.



70
Annex 4-4
Page 2 of 3
"Note technique relative a l'etude de prevalence des MST/VIH au Tchad", rapport de
consultant, Juin 1994.
"Plan a moyen terme de lutte contre le SIDA (1995-1999), Republique du Tchad,
N'Djamena, Avril-Mai 1994.
"Dossier technique sur la situation de la lutte contre les MST et le SIDA au Tchad",
rapport de consultant, Mars 1994.
"Rapport Annuel d'activites 1993", PNLS, Tchad, Janvier 1994.
"Projet de declaration de la politique de population", Republique du Tchad, Ministere du
Plan et de la Cooperation, N'Djamena, Novembre 1993.
Rapport final de la "Mission d'examen de programme et de developpement de strategies
en matiere de population en Republique du Tchad - Juin 93", N'Djamena, Septembre
1993.
"Recensement general de la population et de l'habitat 1993, r6sultats provisoires",
Republique du Tchad, N'Djamena, Juillet 1993.
"Ordonnance No. 008/PR/93 portant reglementation de la contraception au Tchad",
R1publique du Tchad, Pr6sidence de la R6publique, N'Djamena, Avril 1993.
"Seminaire de sensibilisation sur les problemes de population au Tchad", Republique du
Tchad, Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation, N'Djamena, Janvier 1993.
"Arret& No 0003IMPC/SE/DG/DPDRI93 portant creation d'un comite technique
interministeriel sur la population", N'Djamena, Janvier 1993.
"Note circulaire a l'attention des ministres, des responsables des ONG, des responsables
des associations", Republique du Tchad, Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation,
N'Djamena, Janvier 1993.
"Arrete No. 083/MPC/SE/DG/PDDR/92 portant creation d'une unite de coordination des
activites en matiere de population", Republique du Tchad, Ministere du Plan et de la
Cooperation, N'Djamena, Decembre 1992.
"Rapport de Mission CERPOD de coordination de la formulation de la politique de
population du Tchad", N'Djamena, Decembre 1992.
"Programme Travail/Budget de l'ASTBEF 1993", N'Djamena, Octobre 1992.



71
Annex 4-4
Page 3 of 3
"Seminaire national en vue de definir un programme national de sante maternelle et
infantile et de bien-etre familial", Commission pr6paratoire au seminaire, N'Djamena, Avril
1992.
"Programme national de la sante maternelle et infantile et du bien-etre familial",
N'Djamena, Avril 1992.
"Arrete No. 193/MSPAS/SECASPF/DG/DPF/91 portant creation d'un Comite National
pour l'Integration de la Femme au Developpement", Republique du Tchad, Ministere de la
Sante Publique, N'Djamena, Novembre 1991
"Arrete No. 57/MSPAS/SE/DG/PNLS/91 fixant la composition, les attributions et les
modalites de fonctionnement de la commission technique de lutte contre le SIDA",
Republique du Tchad, Ministere de la Sante Publique, N'Djamena, Mai 1991.
"Family planning data collection project in N'Djamena", Republique du Tchad, Ministere
de la Sante Publique, N'Djam6na, n.d.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26177
Thy boundaries, corors
~~~~' ~ ~ ~~~~  / ~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~den n1otnaon s or t cws
d ,  yornr  numops do,  orf
impliy or) t,h p<it of
The World Bonk  Gicxp,
airy >dg ,enh Or) irre9
stotus of any te-r,h;y
o, anry crndorsc,uerri
CHAD                     !                                                  s                                or acceptance of soLB
CHAD                                                                              boun~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hcrdaries
POPULATION AND
AIDS CONTROL                                          
PROJECT                         K
Main Roads                       (                            ~'
Secondoary Roads
Rivers
Prefecture Boundaries          j                                                                                                 |
Intertiational Boundaries                            t             F
Nokou                          /          A|,,B It ne                                   r
f     oo
Mo,,,SS0        ef 
Bo,'--~            )t^usr
~~'  ~       .                                                                                 SALMA \, '23 1jAl
M'1~~u  Konmia       At n Mags        m
\                    D  aEasszc rM/Mssen.
/         \       >     ~~~~~~Bousso                                      Ame< A     
iBongo,            ->         |            %        /M SALAMAT9j
J   BonGorz   )             JX             k~~~                   ~          ~~~~~~~~~e|/
er       >  <al~~~~ o   n   oy' Keo'                    HA I~\        Kyabe                 
/       \         }.   -+/\i>K~~~~~~~~ounn,a   /         Sail  ,           .
I                  \.          * ,X, )  ,.1     ~~~~~~~~~CMo'ssala>
/                     ~~~~~~Bo bakoum\       
MARCH 1 995



