Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24344
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26920; PPFI-P8590; PPFI-P8591)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.9 MILLION (US$ 20.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
CHAD
FOR A
POPULATION & AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
06/12/02



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = FCFA
744 CFA Franc = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.1344 = 100 FCFA
Exchange Rate Effective March 1st, 1995
514 CFA Franc = US$ 1.00
US$   0.1946      =    100 FCFA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS                    Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AMASOT                  Social Marketing Association of Chad
ASTBEF                  Chadian Association for Farnily Welfare
BA                      Beneficiaries' Assessment
CSW                     Commercial Sex Workers
DCA                     Development Credit Agreement
DHS                     Demographic and Health Survey
EIMT                    Chad Multiple Indicators Survey
EMUT                    Migration and Urbanization Study
FOSAP                   Support Fund for Population Activities
KfW                     Kredieianstaltfir Wiederaujbau
HIV                     Human Inmmunodeficiency Virus
IEC                     Information, Education, and Comnmunication
IPP                     National Survey on Priority Prevention Indicators
KABP                    Knowledge, Attitude, Belief, and Practice
MASOCOT                 Social Marketing of Condoms in Chad (NGO)
MEPD                    Ministry of Economic Promotion and Development (formerly MOPC)
MOPC                    Ministry of Plan and Cooperation (formerly MPD)
MOPH                    Ministry of Public Health
MPD                     Ministry of Plan and Development
MTR                     Mid-Term Review
NPP                     National Population Policy
ORT                     Oral Rehydration Therapy
PAD                     Project Appraisal Document
PAIP                    Program of Priority Investments for Population Activities
PCT                     Project Coordination Team
PNLS                    National AIDS Control Program
QAG                     Quality Assurance Group
SAR                     Staff Appraisal Report
SSA                     Sub-Saharan Africa
STD                     Sexually Transmitted Disease
UNFPA                   United Nations Population Fund
|                          ~~~~~~~~~Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Coulntry Manager/Dlirector:     RobePrt Calde1risi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHAD
POPULATION & AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               12
6. Sustainability                                                                   13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  17
9. Partner Comments                                                                 18
10. Additional Information                                                          19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievem,ent of Objectives/Outputs of Components               30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   31
Annex 7. List of Supporulig Documents                                               32
Annex 8. Comments on the ICR by the Borrower                                        34
Annex 9. HIV/AIDS Equity Anialysis                                                  35
Map No. IBRD-26775
is document has a restricted- distribution and may be used by recipients only in
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
hout World Bank authorization.



Project ID: P035601                                      Project Name: POP. & AIDS CO
l'eam Leader: John F. May                                TL Unit: AFTH2
OtcR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: POP. & AIDS CO                                L/C/TFNumber: IDA-26920;
PPFI-P8590;
PPFI-P8591
Country/Department: CHAD                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: HA - HIV/AIDS; HH - Population, Health &
Nutrition Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/02/94                               Effective: 09/08/95
Appraisal:  10/25/94                                 MTR: 11/15/97
Approval:  03/23/95                               Closing: 06/30/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT OF CHAD/MINISTRY OF PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT,
AND COOPERATION
Other Partners: KfW, UNFPA, NGOs
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Pice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Robert Calderisi                         Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Swctor Manager:      Arvil Van Adams                           David Berk
l eam Leader at ICR:  Michele L. Lioy                         Eva Jarawan
ICR Primary Author:  John F. May
2.. Principal Performance Ratings
(FlS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Uiilikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High. SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L-
Istitutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk ait Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project had two main objectives. First, it aimed to assist the Government of Chad in implementing its
long-term strategy in the areas of population and family planning, the focus being to advance the onset of
fertility decline by increasing the use of modem contraceptive methods. The second objective aimed to
assist the Government in the implementation of its second Medium-Term Plan (MTP) for HIV/AIDS
control and to slow the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic by informing the general population, the decision
makers, and the opinion leaders, as well as by promoting behavioral changes.
The objectives of the project were appropriate for Chad, which figures amongst the poorest countries in the
world. At the time of project preparation, the population was estimated at about 6.8 million (population
census of 1993) and the annual rate of growth was estimated at 2.5% (SSA average: 3%). Fertility was
estimated at 5.7 children per woman (SSA average: 6.6). Four-fifths of the population lived in rural areas,
a fact that was not conducive to a rapid decline in fertility. This situation of rapid population growth taxed
the Government's ability to expand access to human development services such as education, health, and
social protection. Population pressure also contributed to enviromnental degradation and progressive loss
of soil fertility. At the household level, it was also important to encourage the use of modem family
planning (FP) methods in order to space children more effectively and reduce high levels of matemal
mortality. In 1993, Chad had adopted a National Population Policy (NPP) in 1993 to foster those changes
and sought the assistance of the World Bank to help finance its implementation.
The project was also timely in organizing a response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic with the emergence of the
first cases of AIDS in 1986. The HIV infection rate rose quickly among the general population and was
estimated at about 3% among adults (between the ages of 15 and 49) in 1994. The infection rates were the
highest in the southwest regions of the country and were at their lowest levels in the northeastern regions.
The Government recognized the potentially high costs of addressing the epidemic and took decisive action
early on. The Government, along these same lines, also prepared two medium-term plans (MTP) and asked
the World Bank to help finance the second MTP (1995-1999). Strategies proposed in the second MTP to
tackle the emerging HIV/AIDS crisis were innovative, including introducing the promotion of condoms
through social marketing techniques (this had never been done in Chad) as well as a significant effort
toward the communities through a social fund.
Given the specific context of Chad, the project's proposed objectives pertaining to population growth and
the AIDS epidemic were sound. Furthermore, at the time the project was designed, Chad had emerged
from a long, protracted civil war (1979-1990). Virtually nothing had been done in the areas of population,
population policy implementation, reproductive health, and mitigation of HIV/AIDS. The project, in fact,
addressed several of these issues for the first time ever in the country. The project was also fully consistent
with the activities emphasized in the Chad Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of May 1993, which
addressed both basic poverty issues and the need to foster long-term per capita income growth. The project
aimed at doing this by attempting to slow population growth and undertaking efforts to control AIDS,
which affects especially the most productive age-groups and brings widespread misery to families.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The general objectives of the project were not revised during the project life.
However, specific targets pertaining to the project objectives, such as the levels of increased contraceptive
use (modem methods) and the projected course of fertility, were modified during the project. The decision
to change them was made at the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in November 1997, using the newly available
-2 -






1996/97 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) data (the first ever to be conducted in Chad). However,
changes were made only later because revisions were to rely on assistance from a UNFPA (United Nations
Population Fund) consultancy (there were problems with UNFPA financing the consultants for the DHS
arAalysis and to carry out the revision of the population objectives). Eventually, the project provided funds
to undertake the needed analysis.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included four components: implementation of population policy, implementation of the second
MITP on HIV/AIDS/STDs, social marketing of condoms, and a social fund to involve NGOs (to support
the two first components by providing resources to the communities). All of these components supported
the development objectives (DOs) of the project as they were designed: (a) to enhance awareness and
behavior change among the population; and (b) to increase the utilization of services to be provided under
other mechanisms (e.g. the health project) by the Government and its partners.
The four components and their sub-components are reviewed in detail below. All amounts indicated
include contributions to the project by the Government and the co-financiers - Kredietanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW), a Gennan donor, and UNFPA.
Component 1- Reinforcing the National Capacity to Implement the National Population Policy (NPP)
Original Amount: US$8.0 million.
This component aimed at helping the Government to implement its Declaration of Population Policy, also
called the National Population Policy (NPP), which was adopted in 1993 and to execute the NPP Plan of
Action. This component had the following three sub-components:
Sub-component 1.1: Strengthening National Capacity to Undertake Population-related Activities
(VJS$4.2 million).
The scope of this sub-component was: to reinforce the newly created Division of Population (under the
Directorate of Planning) of the Ministry of Economic Promotion and Development (MEPD), so it could
coordinate the implementation of the NPP; to plan, manage, and evaluate population-related activities; to
plan, coordinate, and implement other donor-financed population projects; and to reinforce the capacity of
planning units in key ministries in applying demographic data to the design of their sectoral plans (the
MIEPD replaced the Ministry of Plan and Development (MPD), which itself had replaced the Ministry of
Plan and Cooperation (MOPC); the Division of Population had been created at the time of project design).
I'he project's support was: to provide logistical assistance (computer, office furniture, vehicles, and
audio-visual equipment); to rehabilitate a building that would accommodate the Division of Population; to
provide international technical assistance; to finance the provision of local expertise; to provide in-country
tbaining as well as training abroad to key personnel; to fund participation of Chadian experts to regional
and international population meetings; and to fund a study tour to visit another successful program in
Francophone Africa.
Sub-component 1.2: Implementing a Community Awareness Program and Dissemination of the
Population Policy (US$3.1 million).
T'he scope of this sub-component was to promote awareness of the relationship between population and
development by disseminating the objectives of the NPP.
I'he project's support was: to fund Information, Education, Communication (IEC) activities as part of the
WPP, geared at large audiences and covering census and survey results as well as the Family Code; to
- 3 -



finance monthly radio and TV programs providing infonnation on the NPP; and to supply the Maternal and
Child Health (MCH) program at the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) with contraceptives.
Sub-component 1.3: Supporting Population-Related Research (US$0.7 million).
The scope of this sub-component was to assist the Govemment in setting up a national strategy to collect
and analyze basic demographic data to improve knowledge of relevant socio-demographic indicators and
patterns in Chad. More specifically, the project was to assist in elaborating and conducting applied
research studies, the results of which would be used in the operationalization of the NPP and in the
development of EEC messages.
The project's support was: to fund a program of applied studies on urbanization and migration; to finance
secondary analyses of the 1993 Population and Housing Census data; and to help organize the 1996/97
DHS survey as well as a Migration and Urbanization survey (EMUT).
Component 2 - Strengthening the National Capacity to Contain the Spread of HIV/AIDS/STDs
Original Amount: US$6.6 million.
This component aimed at reinforcing Chad's capacity to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic by reducing
HIlV transmission through an effort to lower the prevalence of STDs, promote behavioral change, and
mitigate the impact of AIDS on individuals, families, and communities. This component had two
sub-components, as follows:
Sub-component 2.1: Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) (US$2.9
million).
The scope of this sub-component was threefold: i) to reinforce the capacity of the National AIDS Control
Program (Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA or PNLS) to manage and coordinate the
HLV/AIDS control program through the implementation of its second MTP; ii) to help build the capacity of
the MOPH in epidemiological surveillance and operational research; and iii) to strengthen the capacity of
the MOPH to coordinate multi-sectoral AIDS-related activities.
The project's support was: to finance a 24-month long-term specialist in epidemiology and management
(this was a Condition of Effectiveness); to provide short-term specialists in various AIDS-related technical
areas; to offer long-term training in epidemiology and management, short-term training in IEC and
epidemiology, and on-the-job training in health information systems (for health personnel in the regions);
and to provide logistical and operational support to the PNLS, including in the area of sero-surveillance
(sentinel sites).
Sub-component 2.2: Supporting Epidemiological, Operational, and Socio-Economic Research (US$3.7
million).
The scope of this sub-component was to improve epidemiological surveillance of HIV/AIDS/STDs and
conduct operational research to improve clinical management of AIDS/STDs patients and the knowledge of
the socio-economic impact of AIDS (very few studies had been done on HIV/AIDS at the time the project
was designed).
The project's support was: to finance the creation of two additional sentinel sites (making a total of 7, but
actually 10 were put in place of which 9 have remained functional to date); to fund five HIV prevalence
studies (one each year of the project) among the vulnerable groups (i.e. commercial sex workers, the young,
truck drivers, and the military); to fund two Knowledge, Attitude, Belief and Practice (KABP) studies; and
to help conduct a study on the priority indicators of prevention (IPP survey). The project was also: to
-4 -



provide funding for operational studies; to establish syndromic algorithms for the management of STDs
and AIDS patients; to design referral protocols to assist seropositives and their families; to evaluate the
clinical definition of AIDS; and to study the linkage between HIV and tuberculosis. Finally, the project
was to finance studies on the accessibility and utilization of health centers and district hospitals as well as
on the socio-economic impact of AIDS at various levels (individual, family, community, and
macro-economic).
Component 3 - Putting in Place a Social Marketing Program for the Promotion of Condom Use
Original Amount: US$7.1 million.
This component aimed at increasing the availability and promoting the use of male condoms in Chad, and
assisting the Government in establishing a social marketing program for condoms as a major strategy for
HIV/AIDS prevention. Increased use of condoms was also to help reduce the incidence and prevalence of
STDs and unwanted pregnancies. The social marketing of oral rehydration therary'(ORT) salts was
undertaken later in the project, after the MTR, when additional funds became available (KIW, a
co-financier which had financed the first phase of Component 3, offered to fund the component until the
end of the project: their funding covered equipment, training, support staff, technical assistance, and
recurrent expenditures).
The project's support was: to fund interational specialist services in social marketing and auditing
techniques; to provide contractual local staff in technical areas (marketing, EEC, accounting, management
information system, and stocks keeping); to finance a training study tour to visit another successful social
marketing program in Africa as well as regional training in IEC and promotion campaigns; to buy
condoms; to provide logistics, transportation, and office equipment; and to fund market studies and focus
group research.
Component 4 - Promoting the Participation of the Private Sector and NGOs in Population, Family
Planning, and HIV/AIDS/STDs Programs
Original Amount: US$5.5 millon.
This component aimed at complementing and enhancing the Government's interventions in the areas of
population and HIV/AIDS mitigation. The scope was to establish a social fund (Fonds de Soutien aux
Activites en Matiere de Population or FOSAP) to provide grant financing for activities and programs that
would contribute to the implementation of the population and HIV/AIDS activities, therefore reinforcing
the first two components of the project by providing resources to the communities. Under the FOSAP,
US$1.2 million was to be used for population activities and US$4.3 million, for HlV/AIDS/STDs
programs. The program was open to other donors for additional financing. Finally, a micro-credit element
was added to this component at the MTR to increase sustainability and cover income generating activities
which were necessary to improve the economic status of women.
Given the weak capacity of a number of NGOs and associations that were to benefit from the FOSAP, the
specific strategy of this component was to support several "resource projects" (projets dynamisateurs), the
operators of which would agree, in retum, to guide applicants to the FOSAP in the preparation, evaluation,
and implementation of their potential projects. The operators' key role' would be in training and transfer of
skills. An important criterion to be used in the selection of the resource projects was their actual record of
success in implementation. In addition to its support to the resource projects, the project was to finance
through the social fund a minimum of 40 AIDS-related sub-projects and 20 population-related
sub-projects. Activities of the sub-projects were to be multi-sectoral, involving 7 line ministries: Defense,
Education, Communication, Health, Finance, Social Affairs, and Youth & Sports (eventually, 1 line
-5 -



ministries participated). Activities were also to be geographically balanced (all provinces would be
covered) as well as equity-driven and targeted towards vulnerable groups (the poorest segments of Chadian
society).
3.4 Revised Components:
The four original components were not revised during the project life.
However, two sub-components were added to the project during the MTR, as per the second amendment to
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) on April 8, 1999. These sub-components were the promotion of
ORT salts, added to the social marketing Component 3, and the micro-credits for women and women
associations, added to Component 4 (FOSAP). The micro-credit element had as an objective to improve
the economic status of women (an objective somewhat different from that of the social fund but
nevertheless linked to the wider population objectives), thereby maling women less vulnerable to both
HIV/STDs infection and unwanted pregnancies.
Funds were reallocated twice between components, as a result of the readiness of KfW to finance the social
marketing program (for condoms) for the remainder of the project life. The funds made available by KfW's
decision to finance the whole Component 3 also covered some of the costs for studies, including additional
support for the 1996/97 DHS. Project funds originally allocated to the purchase of condoms were
reallocated to micro-credit activities, to several studies, and to the promotion of ORT salts.
Despite the difficulties encountered in the execution of project sub-component 1.1 pertaining to the
implementation of the NPP, some progress had nevertheless been achieved in the mainstreaming of
population activities. Continued involvement of the project was moreover justified because demographic
growth remained very high, as substantiated by the DHS results, and something needed to be done. Finally,
the Government did not want population activities cancelled at the MTR (the Government has subsequently
insisted that there be a population component in the follow-up project, Population and AIDS Project II).
The project original closing date of June 2001 was extended by six months (to December, 2001) to fill the
gap that was expected before the follow-up project was to become effective. This decision impacted the
implementation of all of the project components: some activities were slowed down (particularly those in
the FOSAP) and a budget as well as a revised workplan were prepared for the six months extension period.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory for three main reasons.
First, the project was designed without baseline data. Given the breadth of the project and its multiple
activities, having a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) plan only adopted by the Government at the end of
project was a weakness. Although it is recognized that such a plan could not have been in place before
Credit Effectiveness because of the absence of data, it should have been put in place at the MTR. This
would have made the monitoring and evaluation of activities more effective, although progress reporting
took place on a regular basis throughout the project (see Output indicators in Annex 1). The project was
designed in part to obtain reliable data for Chad and strengthen the national data collection and analytical
capabilities. Therefore, the project supported the organization of the first Demographic and Health Survey
(DHS) in 1996. This was followed in 1997 by a Migration and Urbanization Study (EMUT) and, in 2001,
by two- additional nation-wide data collection operations, the Enquete par grappes d indicateurs multiples
(EIMT) and the National Survey on Priority Prevention Indicators (Enquete des Indicateurs Prioritaires
de Prevention - IPP) on HIV/AIDS. The Division of Population at the MEPD was created at the time of
project design in part to have an entity capable of analyzing these data. All these data provided a clearer
picture of the levels and trends of the major variables that were to be addressed by the project. An
HI/AIDS Equity Analysis, based on this infonmation, is presented in Annex 9.
-6 -



Second, the targets set for the project development objectives (DO) were overly ambitious, especially for
the population-related objective, largely because they were estimated without baseline data. The annual
rate of population growth was used as an outcome indicator, but this measure is too crude to assess the
various stages of the demographic transition. The target for the contraceptive prevalence rate (modem
methods) was also too ambitious, and was not established drawing from comparable experiences in similar
countries. In fact, the annual rate of population growth was bound to accelerate and fertility levels were
also bound to increase (currently, the rate of demographic growth in Chad is estimated at over 3% per year
and the total fertility rate is estimated at 6.6 children per woman). These are normal features in countries
which enter the last stage of their demographic transition, characterized by an upsurge in demographic
growth as well as transitory increases in the levels of fertility (because of the lessening effect of the
inhibiting factors on fertility, namely the proximate determinants). The situation might have been worsened
by the post civil war baby boom as well as higher fertility outcomes linked to the improved health status of
women. The AIDS-related DO was less ambitious (i.e. slowing the spread of the epidemic). Nevertheless,
the AIDS epidemic progressed very rapidly in Chad. The current HIV prevalence among adults (15-49) is
estimated at around 7% nationally although the figures vary between different parts of the country ranging,
in the most extreme cases, from 4% and 12% (HIV prevalence levels vary considerably in Chad between
provinces and even within some provinces, making it still difficult to extrapolate local epidemiological data
to obtain national estimates; in addition, sentinel sites are located in urban centers that are relatively more
infected than rural areas and this might bring an upward bias to the estimates). However, it may be argued
that the AIDS epidemic could have spread even faster without the project, as explained below in section
4.1.
Third, during project design the Task Teamn did not assess enough the real level of commitment of the
Government, in particular, their commitment to achieving the objectives outlined in theNPP. A weakness in
project design was that the High Committee on Population and Human Resources was to be chaired by the
President of Chad who never had the time (or interest) in chairing this Committee. Although this
institutional approach was favored and even recommended in intemational fora at the time of project
design, such committees had almost never been chaired by a Head of State in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA).
(An action to correct this situation was taken later by the Task Teamn: see paragraph 4.2). Another factor,
which was not sufficiently taken into account during project design, was the lack of priority given to
popu;ation issues after the end of the civil war. At that time, the main objectives of the key stakeholders
were primarily aimed at reconstructing the social infrastructure of the country (education and health
services) and less at promoting birth spacing. Finally, the widespread and pervasive pro-natalist culture in
Chad (favoring large families) could perhaps have been better addressed during project design, although the
Task Team had received assurances regarding the commitment of the Borrower to encouraging such
change, including the adoption of the NPP and the creation of the Division of Population within the EPD.
Despite these shortcomings, the project design recognized correctly that the central issues confronting the
national population program were in two areas: (a) information dissemination problems as well as weak
service delivery; and (b) weak institutional capacity for management, planning, and coordination of
population and AIDS activities. Consequently, key effectiveness conditions and covenants were included in
an attempt to mitigate these problems. The project preparation team also correctly stressed the need for the
social marketing of condoms as well as the importance of serving communities through the social fund
activities (FOSAP). The latter proved a key instrument for HIV/A1DS mitigation activities. As mentioned
earlier, the project addressed many of the issues of population and AIDS mitigation for the first time ever in
Chad. This project had presented the Government and the Bank with daunting challenges in areas where
both the Borrower and the Bank had limited experience. Finally, the project was coherent with the CAS
objectives and the Bank's safeguard policies were fully adhered to.
-7 -



The original idea of the Borrower and the Bank was to include the Population component in the Health and
Safe Motherhood Project These were split fairly late in the preparation process because it was felt: (i) the
health sector would be overloaded if the population component was to be carried out by the MOPH; and (ii)
it would be better for the implementation of the multi-sectoral aspects if the MEPD had been given the
responsibility of executing the Population component (HIV/AIDS activities were added to the project at the
time it was decided to have two projects). The MOPH was to coordinate HlV/AIDS/STDs health-related
activities and ensure coherence of the messages (training in EEC and HIV/AIDS/STDs), but not to
supervise the social marketing program of condoms and the social fund. This project never included family
planning services and other reproductive health aspects, which were covered by the Health and Safe
Motherhood project as well as the UNFPA program of activities. The Health and Safe Motherhood Project
(Cr. 2636-CD) became effective one week before the Population and AIDS Project was approved.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is moderately satisfactory. Although the development objectives (DOs)
were overly ambitious and a crude indicator (the annual rate of population growth) was used to measure
progress, the project succeeded in: (a) helping advance the onset of fertility decline by increasing the
knowledge and the use of modemn contraceptive methods; and (b) slowing the spread of HIV/AIDS
infection by promoting greater awareness and behavioral change. Progress on the DOs can be measured by
the use of proxy indicators for both population and HIV/AIDS activities.
The first development objective was achieved because: (a) the rate of contraceptive prevalence for modem
method increased, albeit very slowly (see Impact/Outcome indicators in Annex 1); and (b) the use of the
male condom made fairly rapid progress although it was the first time male condoms were introduced on a
large scale in Chad (although condoms are used primarily to prevent the transmission of HIV, they also
help prevent unwanted pregnancies). Furthermore, two sub-components of project Component 1, namely
those concerning population-related EEC and population research, were successful in creating greater
awareness on population issues and making available the needed data and analyses. However, the
fulfillment of this first DO suffered from the lack of a strong commitment on the part of the Borrower
toward the implementation of its NPP.
Regarding the second DO, the mitigation of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the project succeeded on four counts,
it: (i) triggered substantial improvements in the knowledge of HIV/AIDS among the general population,
especially among poorest women (see Annex 9); (ii) created a multi-sectoral response to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic, before it was customary to do so; (iii) launched a social marketing program for male condoms in
a highly traditional culture; and it (iv) achieved an important mobilization of communities and NGOs
through the FOSAP (project Component 4). Despite the fact that the second DO mentioned only slowing
the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the dynamic of the epidemic had been more rapid than initially
assessed, in part because of unforeseen migratory movements. All considered, however, the national level
of prevalence of HIV of 7% in Chad is still lower than national levels in neighboring countries, especially
Cameroon and the Central African Republic. This may suggest that the spread of the epidemic in Chad
would have been even more rapid if this project had not been carried out.
The project implemented successfully all of its planned activities, except for one sub-component of project
Component I pertaining to the implementation of the NPP. The project achievements were obtained despite
the major difficulties already mentioned, which are as follows: (i) the difficult context of Chad, a country
recovering at the time of project design from a long period of civil war, (ii) the absence of baseline data at
the project design stage (a weakness that the project helped to correct); and (iii) the fact that many issues to
- 8 -



be covered by the project were tackled for the first time in the country. The lack of data at project
preparation explains why the initial outcome indicators were sketchy, as opposed to the outputs indicators
vwhich were collected throughout the project duration (see Annex 1).
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1- Reinforcing the National Capacity to Implement the National Population Policy (NPP)
ihis component is rated unsatisfactory for the following reason: it did not succeed in really strengthening
the Division of Population in the MEPD and the NPP was not implemented in a timely fashion (despite the
use of a large amount of resources; see Annex 2). However, sub-component 1.2, in particular due to its
UEC activities, is rated as successful, because it achieved its objectives of raising awareness on population
issues. In addition, sub-component 1.3 is also rated as successful, because it helped complete several
studies in population and migration, including two national surveys, although the analysis of the Migration
and Urbanization Study (EMUT) experienced delays due to a lack of expertise necessary in completing the
analysis.
Nevertheless, despite this overall unsatisfactory rating for this component, it must be stressed that some
progress was achieved toward the implementation of the NPP which was the ultimate objective of
Component 1, as follows: (i) all 15 Prefectoral Population Commnissions were created and made
operational; (ii) the national surveys, which are difficult to carry out in Chad (because of the logistics),
were conducted in time, albeit UNFPA - which was a co-financier of the survey - could not meet its
commitments; (iii) advocacy with religious leaders, opinion leaders, journalists, trade unionists, and others,
was done effectively as demonstrated, for example, by support from the "Grand Imam of N'Djamena" who
now mentions birth spacing in his sermons.
Sub-component 1.1: Strengthening National Capacity to Undertake Population-related Activities
This sub-component had problems from its inception and was never able to achieve its objectives fully.
T'he reasons for this situation were two-fold: the lack of strong commitment on the part of the Government
toward the objectives of its NPP and the paucity of Chadian human resources in the area of population
studies, which created a permnanent challenge. Moreover, five Chadian demographers from the Division of
FPopulation have died either accidentally or from illness since 1994.
Ely September 1999, it became clear that a new attempt at the NPP implementation, namely the Program of
Priority Investments for Population Activities (PAIP), that had not yet been adopted, would not be adopted
quickly enough to utilize Credit funds (it was finally adopted in 2000). The PAI translated the NPP into
concrete actions and projects and identified 10 specific sub-projects in several areas as follows:
rminforcement of service delivery in reproductive health; fight against diarrhea and acute respiratory
infections; advocacy activities; girls' education and professional training (to empower future mothers);
socio-economic insertion of youth; civil registration; socio-economic database; and study on rnigration to
thle capital city. However, the PAIP suffered from a lack of clear priorities.
The Task Team had been proactive in trying to bring about the needed changes to foster the implementation
of the NPP. In particular, steps were taken to change the chairmanship of the High Committee for
E'opulation and Hurnan Resources from the President to the Prime Minister. The necessary law had been
prepared, but the Minister who was championing the change was killed in a plane accident in February
2001.. Although this slowed momentum, the High Committee for Population and Human Resources met for
thle first time shortly thereafter.
Sub-component 1.2: Implementing a Community Awareness Program and Dissemination of the
-9-



Population Policy
EEC activities are considered successful and the Division of Population in the MEPD carried out all IEC
and advocacy activities. These were geared at all segments of Chadian society and they succeeded in
disseminating population and reproductive health information and messages despite resistance that was to
be expected in a traditional culture. In particular, this sub-component helped train large numbers of
journalists, opinion leaders, women leaders, trade-unionists, and administrators (see Output indicators in
Annex 1). The component also helped mainstream population concerns into regular Chadian public
administration activities.
Sub-component 1.3: Supporting Population-Related Research
Most studies that were planned were completed and their impact was important in fostering the policy
dialogue on population and AIDS issues in Chad. However, some studies experienced delays (such as the
analysis of the EMUT). In addition, the Division of Population did not always have the capacity to analyze
in a timely fashion the other data that were collected by the Central Bureau of the Census.
Component 2 - Strengthening the National Capacity to Contain the Spread of HlV/AIDS/STDs
This component and its two sub-components are rated satisfactory. This component succeeded on several
counts: in decentralizing HIV/AIDS/STDs activities; in bringing other sectoral ministries than health in the
fight against HIV/AIDS (therefore creating a truly multi-sectoral response); in setting up epidemiological
sentinel sites for monitoring the HlV/AIDS/STDs epidemic; in conducting most needed sectoral studies;
and in fostering awareness among disenfranchised groups, such as poor rural women (see Annex 9). A
large part of the success of this component was made possible because of the strong support of the social
fund (FOSAP) activities under Component 4 of the project In fact, activities of Component 4 enhanced
the ownership of the objectives of Component 2 at the community and household levels, therefore creating a
strong synergy between the two components. However, as already mentioned, the AIDS epidemic has
spread more rapidly than anticipated over the last five years and has become a generalized epidemic in
some parts of the country (mostly in the Southemn region). More emphasis could perhaps have been put on
the H[V high-transmitter groups in the early stages of the epidemic (these were nevertheless targeted by the
project), although it may also be argued that it would have been difficult to concentrate on behavior change
before people knew about HIV/AIDS. In this respect, it must be stressed that knowledge about the
epidemic and its transmission increased during the project as shown in the Outcome/Impact indicators on
the Prevention of HIV/AIDS presented in Annex 1 (in 1994, when the project was designed, very little was
known about HIV/AIDS among the general population).
Sub-component 2.1: Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH)
HIV/AIDS prevention activities have been decentralized and seven other key ministries were to contribute
to the fight against the AIDS epidemic (actually 11 ministries did so: Defense, Education, Communication,
Health, Finance, Social Affairs, Youth & Sports, Justice, Interior, Agriculture, and Transportation).
Functional sentinel sites for screening pregnant women and STDs patients have been put in place.
However, one may argue that the current sentinel surveillance system does not yet cover the country
sufficiently to provide reliable national HIV prevalence estimates (this issue is being addressed in the
follow-up project). This sub-component also helped train large numbers of doctors and nurses (see Output
indicators in Annex 1).
Sub-component 2.2: Supporting Epidemiological, Operational, and Socio-Economic Research
The project helped to collect and, to a lesser extent, analyze baseline data on the course of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic. Additional research was also conducted on the socio-economic dimensions of population,
reproductive health, and HlV/AIDS issues. This sub-component helped to complete sero-prevalence and
- 10 -



operational studies (see Output indicators in Annex 1).
Component 3 - Putting in Place a Social Marketing Program for the Promotion of Condom Use
This component is rated highly satisfactory for four reasons. The social marketing program for condoms:
(i) introduced the concept of condom use (a sensitive issue) into a highly traditional culture; (ii) used sound
and culturally-adapted IEC messages to do so; (iii) sold a large amount of condoms (more than one-half a
condom per capita per year, usually, extremely successful mature condom social marketing programs sell
about one condom per capita per year - an indicator proposed by Population Services International or
PSI); and (iv) triggered the beginning of measurable behavioral changes. The Survey on Priority
Prevention Indicators (Enquete des Indicateurs Prioritaires de Prevention) of 2001 indicates a greater use
ol male condoms: 10.5% and 12.5% of women and men, respectively, acknowledged having used a
condom, which is substantial given the very recent introduction in Chad of this preventive method. The
social marketing of condoms made an impact at grass-root level in village communities in terms of greater
awvareness, behavior changes, and safer health practices, particularly among youth.
After the MTR, social marketing techniques were also used successfully to promote and sell ORT salts, the
rationale being that decreased infant and child mortality would be conducive to fertility reduction behavior.
The latter ORT effort was supported by the project, not by KfW (which supported the funding of condom
social marketing activities).
Component 4 - Promodng the Participation of the Private Sector and NGOs in Population, Family
Pllanning, and IIV/AIDS/STDs Programs
This comnponent is rated highly satisfactory and is arguably the most successful of the entire project (more
social funds were granted to it than was originally planned: see Output indicators in Annex 1). However, it
should be recognized that FOSAP activities were mostly devoted to the fight against HIV/AIDS (especially
at the end of the project) and less to population and reproductive health activities, the reason being that the
domand for HIV/AIDS activities became much greater as the project evolved. In addition, some projects
ftnded under the FOSAP were meant to support the population policy in the widest sense, including
im3provement of the status of women, urbanization, food security, and other issues which all go beyond
family planning per se. Therefore, these activities had only an indirect connection - albeit an important
oie - with the specific activities initially set out in the project (this was highlighted in the Borrower's final
evaluation of that specific component). FOSAP activities were also facilitated by the availability of a good
M[anual of Procedures.
During the MTl, a micro-finance sub-component was introduced to that component to encourage income
generating activities, increase the economic status of women, and consequently foster the sustainability
prospects for project activities. This worked well as was stressed by the Borrower in its evaluation report
oni Component 4. Finally, this component also had an impact which was not a stated objective of the
project: it contributed to developing and strengthening civil society, an important and beneficial
"side-effect". This was obtained through specific training activities organized by the FOSAP and geared
tcwards civil society.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project has been rated as modest because of the lack of
achievement in the implementation of the NPP, despite major successes obtained in other areas.
Little success was achieved in moving forward with a strong multi-sectoral institutional base to implement
the NPP. Inadequate capacity building and political support meant that neither the Secretariat of the High
Commission for Population and Human Resources nor the Inter-ministerial Commission on Population and
Human Resources were very effective during the project life. As already mentioned, those problems were
compounded by the lack of human resources and the paucity of Chadian expertise in the field of population.
Furthermore, the pro-natalist culture and the poor understanding of demographic problems in Chad (viewed
by many Chadians as a vast and empty country, one that can accommodate many more people) also explain
the lack of strong political support to the objectives of the NPP and hence the poor prospects for the
institutional development impact of Component 1, the largest of the project. These issues are being further
addressed in the follow-up project (Population and AIDS Project II) through a stronger focus on behavior
change and birth-spacing activities as well as the strenghtening of the monitoring and evaluation
requirements.
However, the project has achieved major institutional development successes. First, the social fund (the
FOSAP) proved to be a institutional success, not solely for population and H[V/AIDS/STDs activities, but
also for the wider development agenda. Second, the institutional development impact related to the social
marketing effort includes the creation of a full-fledged, legal NGO (the Association de Marketing Social au
Tchad or AMASOT), registered at the Ministry of Interior. This NGO has been able to sustain the initial
impetus and level of effort in the area of social marketing, not only for ORT salts, but also for condoms. In
addition, the social marketing program attracted other donors (namely KfW), which took on the financing
of this important activity (for condoms).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic and political conditions in the country during the project varied considerably, with periods of
political turbulence, and with serious difficulties in mobilizing government resources for recurrent
expenditures.
Delays were experienced in obtaining revised values for the targets to be reached under the population
objective of the project because, when the first DHS was completed in 1997, the results were to be used to
prepare demographic projections, with the assistance of UNFPA which had committed itself to funding a
consultant. However, this consultant was provided after a considerable delay and, in the end, with funding
from the project.
As mentioned already, the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic was also more rapid than initially assessed, in
part because increased unchecked migratory movements took place between Chad and Cameroon as well as
CAR, two highly HlV-infected countries. These movements were probably linked to the oil boom and the
incursions of CAR rebels within the Southem region of Chad.
Finally, the social marketing program of condoms had to face opposition from traditional segments of
Chadian society in its initial stages. Nevertheless, the social marketing program of condoms achieved a
high level of success as demonstrated in particular by its good use of sound EEC techniques.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
At the highest levels, the Government was not tnmly committed to implementing its NPP. The High
- 12 -



Committee for Population and Human Resources only first met in 2001, and the decree to appoint the
Prime Minister, instead of the President of the Republic, as Chairman of the High Committee had not yet
been signed, despite having been ready for over one year. Clearly population policy and population-related
interventions were not a priority of the Government throughout the project. An interesting insight was
provided during an ICR (Implementation Completion Report) field trip during which a villager mentioned
thlt when population pressure became too severe in one village it was always possible to move away and
establish another village.
As for all other projects in Chad, counterpart commitments were not met in totality, except during the first
year of the project. Consequently, support staff and suppliers were often only paid 90% of the amount due
them until September 1998 and 85%, after that date. In subsequent years, only about 40% of the
counterpart funds due were paid and nothing was paid during the last year of the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project Coordination Team (PCT) has perfomed very well and is still recognized in the country as a
center of managerial excellence. Financial and procurement management was satisfactory. The PCT was
able to provide guidance and technical assistance to its partners (including the FOSAP), or to identify and
obtain such assistance elsewhere when necessary. Finally, the PCT also coordinated the collection of
regular M&E information.
The MEPD did not provide the newly created Division of Population of the Directorate of Planning with
the necessary staff. In fact, the MEPD argued that the structural adjustment program simply precluded the
Ministry from hiring staff. Problematic issues identified at the beginning of project implementation
re:named unresolved, such as staff recruitment and counterpart payments (the latter were made regularly by
the Ministry of Finance only at the beginning of the project). The Migration and Urbanization Study
(EMUT), identified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was only fully analyzed late in the project life
(because it needed to be done after the DHS had been carried out in 1997; both surveys were national and
could not be organized at the same time). Furthermore, the very specialized skills necessary for part of the
migration data analysis were not available.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original project cost estimate was US$27.2 million, of which US$20.4 million was IDA contribution,
US$2.3 million Government and communities contributions, US$4.4 million KfW contribution, and
U3$0.08 million UNFPA contribution. Disbursement levels at closing reached US$18.5 million for IDA,
US$0.84 million for Government and communities, US$ 4.67 million for KfW, and US$ 0.15 for UNFPA
(see Annex 2).
Thne actual cost of project Component 1 was less than anticipated at appraisal since fewer activities took
place than originally planned (76% of IDA's initial amount for that component was used). The actual cost
of project Component 4 was above the initial expectations because of the high demand for services
provided by the social fund (116% of IDA's initial amount for that component was used). The actual costs
of the two other project components were, by and large, in line with initial expectations made at appraisal
(see Annex 2).
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The overall prospect for sustainability of project activities is rated as moderately satisfactory. The
rationale for this rating is that most project activities will continue being implemented by the various
agencies (either from the public or the private sector) that were involved in the execution of the project.
- 13 -



One entity was responsible for each component of the project: the Division of Population for the
Component 1; the National Program for AIDS Control (PNLS) for project Component 2; the team of
MASOCOT (Marketing Social des Condoms au Tchad) (under ASTBEF auspices, now the AMASOT
NGO) for the social marketing; and the Bureau of the FOSAP for the social fund and micro-credits. The
PCT helped organize the multiple inputs of all players. Indeed, it was called, and was truly perceived by its
partners as, the coordination team of the project (equipe de coordination du projet). PCT staff held
regular coordination meetings with all implementing agencies.
When analyzing the specific components and sub-components of the project, the prospects for sustaining
the activities of the social fund (FOSAP), the social marketing, and the more intensive work on
HIV/AIDS/STDs are reasonably high. However, prospects for implementing the NPP and having
Govenmment support in NPP related activities are much more limited.
Although the overall context for population and family planning activities in Chad remains difficult, the
project was able to bring to the fore several key issues and new approaches, such as the activities of the
social fund, the social marketing of condoms, and the need to promote behavioral changes as they relate to
birth spacing and the mitigation of HIV/AIDS/STDs. Public awareness about these issues increased during
the project life, in particular arnong the poorest women (see Annex 9). Furthermore, the population, family
planning, and HIV/AIDS/STDs issues have been to a large extent institutionalized and they are being
addressed fully in the subsequent operation (Population and AIDS Project II). The main challenge of that
new operation will be to narrow the gap between improved awareness and knowledge, and actual behavior
change.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Activities in most components are being continued through the follow-up IDA project (Population and
AIDS Project II, which was appraised in April 2001 and became effective in April 2002). The follow-up
project has paid particular attention to the strengthening of the M&E capacity.
Other activities, such as the condom social marketing efforts, are being continued with other donor support
(namely KfW). In this respect, the MASOCOT, the institution in charge of social marketing, has
transformed itself into a full-fledged, legal NGO (the AMASOT) in 2001. However, the Government needs
to tackle more aggressively the implementation of its NPP. This will require a new approach, with less
emphasis on population growth and demographic numbers, a stronger focus on the changing age structures
and shifting dependency ratios, and a greater emphasis on the linkages between demnographic trends and
other sectoral issues, such as environment, food security, and urbanization.
In addition, policies and programs geared to individual and household aspirations will be needed in order to
mainstream project activities into the regular health and social services provided by the Govenmment and its
partners. Although this project (and its successor) focused on multi-sectoral activities, civil society, and
social marketing (non-profit private sector), health services will be needed to match activities in the policy
arena (this is being done through the IDA-financed ongoing Health Sector Support Project (Cr. 3342-CD)
and the Eighth European Development Fund Health Project). Probably more should be done also at the
level of the schools (for tomorrow's mothers), and for women's groups. Alphabetization and women's
education activities would also help.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Project preparation is rated unsatisfactory, mainly because the project development objectives (DOs) were
- 14 -



overly ambitious.
However, the Task Team should be commended for having been able to prepare this operation despite three
problems which made preparatory activities very challenging. First, at the time of project preparation, as
mentioned before, the Borrower and Bank were relatively inexperienced in what was needed to bring
forward a comprehensive, multi-sectoral population and development policy. Second, multi-sectoral
approaches to deal with the HIV/AIDS epidemic were also new and had not yet been tested in large-scale
programs. Finally, as also mentioned before, the project was prepared without baseline data (actually, the
project was instrumental in establishing these much needed baseline data). The post-conflict context in
Chad at the time also explains, in part, why the focus of the Government was to rebuild basic social
infrastructures and services and, therefore, also why issues pertaining to population growth may have been
deemed less urgent
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance is rated overall as highly satisfactory, for three major reasons.
First, during a World Bank Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review in FY 98, supervision of the project
was rated as Highly Satisfactory or Best Practice (Rating 1). The QAG report noted that "the Chad
Population and AIDS Control Project ... was the only HNP samnpled project which was rated highly
satisfactory in QAG's FY 98 Rapid Supervision Quality Assessment (...). The project is being
implemented in the context of extreme poverty, substantial ongoing political unrest, and many competing
health problems. Implementation capacity is very limited. Despite these obstacles, the project was
exceptionally well supervised." The rationale for this high rating was based on five criteria: resolute focus
on development impact; timely and thorough supervision of fiduciary aspects; consistent and high quality
supervision of inputs and processes; realistic project performance ratings; and innovative ways of dealing
with the Borrower's limited capacity.
Second, the same Task Team Leader (TTL) supervised the project throughout its duration and worked
closely with the Chadian counterparts: this has made a major difference. Project IDA supervision missions
were also perceived by the Borrower as being of high technical quality. Bank professionals were seen by
the client as constant and reliable partners in the overall effort and Bank staff were also able to mentor their
Chadian counterparts.
Third, regular supervision missions were conducted in conjunction with the Bank's supervision missions of
the Health and Safe Motherhood Project and this provided substantial economies of scale.
However, as it was clear from the design phase that the Division of Population was weak and would need
close attention and support if it were to fulfill its mandate and carry out the largest project component; it
may be argued that insufficient Bank influence was used in the initial stages to aggressively get the
Division of Population in MEPD on track for the tasks described in the DCA (although the Task Team had
spent a lot of time and devoted many efforts to speed up the implementation of that sub-component). The
supervision of the component handled by the MOPH was done in parallel with the supervision of the new
Health and Safe Motherhood Project. Concerning the social marketing program, the contractor (ASTBEF,
an affiliate of the IPPF) had very limited prior experience and received close and effective supervision
attention from the Task Team in the early stages. The launching of the social marketing effort for ORT
salts after the MTR also required extensive supervision and guidance. With respect to the social fund
(FOSAP), it was effectively initiated, managed, and implemented. As such, it proved to be one of the most
successful components of the project.
- 15 -



Finally, the ICR Team felt that the Project Status Reports (PSRs) of this project generally focused on
project problem areas whilst the Aide-Memoires were more balanced with regard to project achievements.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory and was carried out under difficult circumstances.
Given government attitudes at the start of the process, Bank supervision and presence contributed
significantly in moving the action agenda forward. It laid the groundwork for more rapidly addressing
HIV/AIDS/STDs issues and in providing the framework for community and non-public sector grant
financing and micro-credit activities, at a time when this was not yet emphasized to the degree it is now.
The project had a Supervision Plan which it adhered to, for the most part, in terms of frequency of missions
and timing of the MTR However, more attention to M&E, particularly looking at qualitative aspects
rather than disbursement levels and quantitative achievements, would have benefited the Bank's
performance and project outcomes. This aspect had been emphasized in the subsequent project, the
Population and AIDS Project II.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's participation is rated satisfactory because components 2, 3, and 4 of the project were well
prepared. However, the preparation of Component I was not optimal and-a fairly large share of the
preparation of that component was left to the Bank. Furthermore, the Government had not fully thought
through what precisely it would take to implement its NPP (the implementation of any population policy is
a rather difficult task).
The detailed list of Conditions of Effectiveness and the difficulties in depositing the initial counterpart
amount into the Project Account (linked to recurrent problems of funds availability in Chad) suggest that
the Government was less than optimally ready to enter into the DCA at the time of signing. (Tus ts
reinforced by the extensive list of Government assurances related to project perfonnance which are set forth
in the SAR).
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, the Govermment unplementation performance is rated satisfactory, despite problems in Component
1, as the three other project components were implemented in a satisfactory way.
The Government was not fully committed to the implementation of its NPP. This was reflected in its lack
of support of the high level body it created, essentially on paper for most of the project life; and its
unwillingness to take actions, such as signing a decree to establish the Prime Minister, instead of the
President, as head of the key body (that body was to approve the PAEP, or the priority investment plan, that
was to translate the NPP into more concrete actions and interventions). The Government also experienced
difficulties in paying counterpart funds, a problem affecting virtually all projects in Chad. When such
issues were raised by the Bank, as they were after the MTR, the impact was neglible. The implementation
of the three other components of the project, however, was satisfactory (and highly satisfactory for the last
two components) because of the existence of a strong commitment (from the decision makers, the opinion
leaders, and the beneficiairies) toward those components' activities. In addition, the implementing agencies
for these components were more proactive and not plagued by human resources issues as was the Division
of Population.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing entities varied by entity, but taken as a whole, is rated satisfactory.
There were four implementing entities, of which three were public sector bodies (MEPD, MOPH, and the
- 16 -



office of the FOSAP) and one was non-public (ASTBEF). The project was under the auspices of the
MEPD, with the MOPH acting as a technical ministry. Each component was managed and implemented by
one entity: respectively, for each component, the Division of Population at the MEPD; the National AIDS
Control Program (PNLS) at the MOPH; the MASOCOT team, under the auspices of ASTBEF, now the
AMASOT; and finally the FOSAP. The FOSAP is a public entity, now an office which was created when
the project became effective. However, it is autonomous and has acted as a para-statal entity.
The General Directorate (Direction generale) of the MEPD coordinated and reported timely on the other
agencies' activities, through the Project Coordination Team (PCI). Therefore, real coordination and
oversight of activities took place at the project level and was done in tandem by the General Directorate of
the MEPD and the PCT. ASTBEF and the FOSAP were competent in implementing their respective
programs, and the MOPH performed rather adequately in carrying out its reponsibilities under difficult
circumstances. The PCT did manage to coordinate all of the inputs of the implementing agencies,
monitoring effectively their fiduciary responsibilities. It performed its task in an efficient and
non-authoritarian way.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Despite adverse conditions, the unwelcoming
environment related to execution of the NPP, and poor institutional capacity in a number of areas
(especially of the Division of Population), the Borrower was able to implement the project with a fair
amount of success.
8. Lessons Learned
Several of the lessons learned from this project concem the lack of leadership commitment toward key
basic objectives of the project, the need to clarify institutional arrangements during project design, and the
importance of baseline data for proper project design and monitoring.
The five specific lessons that can be leamed from this project are as follows:
*   Policy Dialogue: There is a great need in Francophone SSA for enhanced policy dialogue in
population and reproductive health. The lack of leadership commitment is a major stumbling block
in any effort to address these pressing issues. Therefore, Task teams must be particularly
pro-active in assessing and addressing leadership commitment and ownership, even during the
preliminary stages of project design. For example, the NPP had only modest results in Chad,
precisely because of the lack of leadership commitment which then translated into weak support for
the institutions needed to implement the NPP. A greater involvement of the Borrower in project
preparation would help to increase its commitment to achieving the development objectives of the
project (the follow-up project was prepared in a much more participatory way).
* Policy Focus: Policy dialogue needs to be focused and strengthened in the following specific areas:
dissemination of population and reproductive health data; advocacy of family planning modem
methods as a way to reinstate traditional birth spacing mechanisms and improve maternal health
outcomes; linkage of population trends and dynamics to multi-sectoral issues, such as the
environment, agriculture, and urbanization patterns; advocacy of population issues with an
emphasis on changing age structures and dependency ratios; and the need to address reproductive
health requirements of adolescents and youth.
*   Project Design: Task teams need to better recognize that results in the area of population,
reproductive health, and HIV/AIDS/STDs take time to materialize in the SSA context because they
involve tackling sensitive issues in traditional cultures. Therefore, task teams need to lower
- 17 -



expectations in terms of outcome/impact indicators when preparing such projects. In addition, task
teams need also to strengthen the linkages between the initial steps of awareness creation, increased
knowledge and the behavioral change activities in order to minimize the gap between raised
awareness and behavioral change and in order to maximize project design outcomes (this is the
main challenge of the Population and AIDS 11 Project). The split between.urban and nrual areas
for some indicators, such as the contraceptive prevalence rate (modem methods), need also to be
addressed and narrowed, probably using innovative strategies (e.g. outreach mechanisms such as
community-based distribution of contraceptives). Finally, task teams should be more realistic as to
the level of leadership required to chair the population institutions. In the case of Chad, it appears
that the choice of the Head of State to chair the High Committee on Population and Human
Resources hampered the smooth implementation of project Component 1.
*   Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation systems and baseline data are a priority,
particularly in population and HlV/AIDS/STDs projects, given the nature of the activities and the
rapid evolution of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. These need to be designed and installed very early in
the project life and, furthermore, regularly assessed by both the Borrower and the Bank The
follow-up project is paying particular attention to this problem and is supporting the conduct of a
new Demographic and Health Survey (DHS).
*   Social Change: Another lesson from the project points to the adaptability of traditional societies to
embrace new methods and attitudes. The project demonstrated that even in highly traditional and
religious cultures where mentioning condoms and HlV/AIDS/STDs and/or talking about sexual
behavior are taboo, it is possible to bring about social change through the use of good EEC
messages and social marketing techniques, and to get the population to leam fairly rapidly about
HIV/AIDS/STDs. Of course, this is easier to achieve when personal interests (e.g. avoidance of
I-V) are at stake and more difficult to obtain when it comes to changing long-standing traditional
attitudes (e.g. high fertility and the demand for large families).
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Bank ICR Team received from the Government an overall end-of-project evaluation report, as well as
several component-specific end-of-project reports, namely the population policy component (two evaluation
reports), the HIV/AIDS activities (one evaluation report), and the social fund (one evaluation report). In
addition, the Government commissioned a Beneficiaries Assessment (BA) study to assess the project
impact ex post. These evaluation reports are listed in Annex 7, and were used extensively in the
preparation of this ICR.
The PCT commented on two drafts of the ICR, and these comments were taken into consideration during
subsequent revisions. The Borrower also asked the PCT of the project to assess the ICR. These comments
are presented in English in Annex 8, to distinguish thern from the Bank team's inputs. They can be
summarized as follows: the PCT endorses the main conclusions of the ICR analysis and stresses the
following aspects mentioned in the ICR, namely the lack of human resources, especially at the Division of
Population, and the difficulty in obtaining project counterpart funding in Chad. However, the PCT does
not agree with the view that the lack of progress in the implementation of the NPP should be construed as
an absence of political commitment. The PCT gives specific reasons, mostly of an administrative nature,
to explain the delays in carrying out the NPP. Finally, the PCT also suggests that the additional data,
collected in 2001 and made available in 2002, should be utilized to complement the analysis provided in
Annex 9 of the ICR report (these data were used in the core text of the report).
- 18 -



A Beneficiaries' Assessment (BA) report, also listed in Annex 7, was completed in the urban and rural
zones of NDjamena and Bongor following project completion. This BA report focused: (a) on the target
groups of the population component of the project, namely the decision makers, the opinion leaders, and the
religious authorities; and (b) on the target groups for the HIV/AIDS activities of the project as they are
most vulnerable/at high risk, e.g. commercial sex workers, truck drivers, young women, military personnel,
and other groups.
This BA survey provided interesting insights into the positive impact of the project at the community level.
In particular, it demonstrated that many "new" behaviors related to family planning and HIV/AIDS
avoidance have developed in most urban and rural communities, but are referred to in a specific, coded
language. This underscores the need to carefully address issues related to communication on these topics.
Such findings are corroborated'by the results of the National Survey on Priority Prevention Indicators
(IPP) conducted in 2001. For example, 68% of the women and 73% of the men interviewed for the survey
revealed that they had modified their sexual behavior.
The persons surveyed in the BA survey also indicated the need to expand the support provided through the
activities of the FOSAP and, in particular, to expand their geographical coverage. Finally, the report
stressed the need to strengthen the control mechanisms within the FOSAP to make sure that services
offered can be accessed easily by everyone.
(b) Cofinanciers:
KfW produced several evaluation reports, which have been used by the World Bank ICR team. The most
important of these reports, the Aide-Memoire of the March 2001 Evaluation Mission, is listed in Annex 7.
This report provides the rationale for the involvement of KfW in the social marketing efforts of condoms in
Chad.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NGOs and the other private sector partners of the project have always rated highly the support received
from the project, namely under Component 4 (FOSAP). This is highlighted in the evaluation report on the
social fund (FOSAP) component (see under (a) above).
10. Additional Information
Not Applicable
19



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Note: There was no Log Frame Matrx in the SAR in 1994 when this project was appraised. In addition,
because there were no baseline data available at the time the project was designed (the civil war had only
recently ended), only a few outcome/impact indicators can be presented. The initial values are posterior to
the date of effectiveness of the project and have been obtained through the DHS in 1996-1997.
Outcome/Impac: Indicators
Key Indicators        SAR          Latest Information           Comments
End of Project
_________              TargetN
Population Component
Decrease the annual Annual population  Annual population  The annual population growth rate is
population growth  growth rate of 2.2%  growth rate of 3.0% in a crude indicator and it should not
rate from its level of by 2001 (estimation) 2001 (estimation)  yave been used in the SAR,
.4% in 1995      and of 2.0% by 2005                  especially for a population starting
its fertility transition and
experiencing inevitably an
acceleration of its annual rate of
.__ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _      grow th
Increase of       Contraceptive    Contraceptive       Objective was too ambitious and
ontraceptive     prevalence rate of  prevalence rate  should also have been differentiated
prevalence rate   10% (modern      (modem methods) of  in SAR by urban and rural strata
(modem methods)   methods) in 2000  1.3% in 1997/97
from 1% in 1990                    (source: DHS) and of
3.3% in 2001
(estimation)
Prevention of HIV/AEDS Component
Percentage of adults 100% of adults know 60% of women and  Objective was too ambitious and
(ages 15-49) who  at least two means o 88% of men knew in  should also have been differentiated
mow at least two  avoiding HIV     1996/97 about       in the SAR by gender
means of avoiding  trasmission by 1999 HIV/AIDS (source:
HV transmission                      HS) and the
percentage has
increased to 79% and
81%, respectively, in
2001 (source: IPP
Survey)
Number of adults  No target set     Social marketing    Objective was not defined in SAR,
(ages 15-49) who                    program for condoms but has been achieved partly
would be able to                    sold more than 1.5  through social marketing methods
obtain or buy a male                condoms per adult
condom at an                        (ages 15-49) per year
affordable price                    in 2000, in addition
to condoms
distributed elsewhere
(health centers and
pharmacies)
-20 -



Output Indicators               _
Key Indicators        SAR          Latest Information          Comments
End of Project
Target
Population Component
Publication of an  Publication of one  One issue published
Iformation         issue per year   every year, except in
Bulletin on        (1995 -2000)     1999 when two were
Population                          published
Development
Infornation        50 journalists,  760 persons trained,  2 NGOs workshops (1994, 1996)
/Education         200 NGO reps.,   including 240       2 workshops for
workshops for      100 opinion      traditional leaders  opinion/traditional leaders in 1995
ournalists, NGOs,  leaders, and                        and 1996
opinion leaders,   200 women                            1 workshop for women leaders
women             leaders                               2 workshops for journalists
Regular seminars for religious
leaders
Information       100 trade-union   120 trade-union     The National Population
/Education        leaders,          leaders & 20 trainers  Commission supervised the
workshops for.    28 prefects and   for peer training  seminars at the prefectoral level
trade-unionists and  deputy prefects  28 prefects & deputy
administrators                      prefects
Having personnel in  Having one focal  One focal point per  During preparation of the PAIP,
ministries        point for         ministry for two    each key mimstry had identified
understanding the  population in key  years             one focal point, but these persons
Population Policy  ministries                           did not continue working together
once the plan was completed and
awaiting approval
Preparation and   Plan was to be    Plan finalized in'  The Plan needed to be adopted by
adoption of the first finalized     1997 and adopted in  the High Committee for
PAIP in 1995      December 31,      2000                Population that met only once in
1995                                 2000
Creation of a     Committee to be   Committee created
technical IEC     created before    on September 30,
Committee for     December 31,      1997
Population         1995
Demographic anc'  DHS results       Preliminary report  First DHS ever undertaken in
Health Survey     available in March  available in      Chad. The Final Report
(DHS)             1997              November 1997 and   disseminated in June 1998.
final report in May  Secondary analysis and regional
1998                analysis have been carried out
Migration and     Survey results    Final report        EMUT started late because it had
Urbanization survey available in    published in       to be done after the DHS. There
in Chad (EMUT)    February 1998    mnid-2001            were also some problems in
completing the analysis as the
necessary competencies were not
available in Chad
-21 -



Key Indicators         SAR       1 Latest Information           Comments
End of Project
. Target
Prevention of HIV/AI[DS Component
Training of medical  30 medical doctors  90 medical doctors  Guides were developed and have
personnel in STDs  100 nurses        60 nurses           been distributed at the prefecture
management                                               and district level
Training of medical  30 doctors      80 doctors          Guides were developed and have
personnel for                        30 nurses           been distributed at the prefecture
HIV/AIDS clinical                                        and district level
management        _
Setting up at least  7 sites         9 sites             A tenth site was set up in Faya,
seven sentinel sites                                     but it is not always functional
Sero-prevalence    5 studies in 5    5 studies carried out  In addition, two transversal
specific groups    years                                 studies carried out (1995 & 2000)
Knowledge, Attitude, 2 KABP studies  3 studies were      One study was carried out by
Belief, Practice                     carried out         MASOCOT and 2 by the National
(KABP) studies                                           AIDS Control Program
Operational studies  5 studies       Two studies for     5 tuining modules are available
production of       and have been disseminated
Sstudies for production of
____ _  .algorithms for HIV/AIDS & IST
Study on HIV/AIDS  One study         Study carried out and
socio-economic                       published in June
impact                               2001
Social fund Cornnent
Education and      10 IEC/ youths    59 EC/ youths
prevention         5 EEC/CSW         6 IEC/CSW
sub-projects       2 IEC/            6 lEC/migrants/truck
migrants/drivers  drivers
Sub-projects       7 social sector   6 social sector     The integrated prefectoral
providing          4 community       4 community-based   sub-projects were carried out by
medico-social      based APMS        APMS                the Prefectoral Health Committee
support            15 integrated     15 integrated       of each of the prefecture
prefectoral       prefectoral
Sub-projects aiming  3 IEC/Population  21 IEC/Population in  The prefectoral sub-projects were
at encouraging the  3 study/research  ten prefectures   implemented by the Prefectoral
use of contraception  3 service providing  2 research    Population Commissions
and birth spacing                    7 service providing
15 prefectoral
Recruitment of     4 NGOs            6 NGOs              Two additional NGOs with
NGOs to assist in                                       recognized capacities were
sub-project                                              recruited to ensure better national
preparation and                                          coverage
supervision
-22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuaULatest    Percentage of
,,   ,   ,,,xl      ll.lEstimate,', E stimate , - ,Appraisal
-','         JeC'By Component'.'piet             US$ million -  US$ million.
A. Reinforcing the national capacity to implement the  7.04          6.08           89.14
national population policy
B. Strengthening the national capacity to contain the spread  5.86   5.58            97.8
of HIV/AIDS/STDs
C. Putting in place a social marketing program for the  6.38         6.93          109.22
promotion of condoms
D. Promoting the participation of the private sector and  5.54       5.58          104.36
NGO in population, Family Planning, and
HIV/AIDS/STDs programs
Total Baseline Cost                                  24.82          24.17
Physical Contingencies                               1.00
Prce Contingencies                                   1.38
Total Project Costs             27.20           24.17
Total Financing Required              27.20          24.17
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB          NC8         OTHER         N.B.F      Total Cost
1. Goods
a) Contraceptives             3.0                                                  3.0
(3.0)                                                (3.0)
b) Other Goods                1.5          0.2                       1.2 a/        2.9
(1.5)         (0.2)                                  (1.7)
2. Civil Works                                            0.1         0.l a/        0.2
(0.1)
3. Consultant's Services                                  2.8         1.4 a/        4.2
(2.8)                    (2.80)
4. Training                                               1.1        0.8 a/b/       1.9
.               (1.1)                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1.1)
5. Studies/Survey                                         4.4                       4.4
___ ___ __ ___ ___ __   __ __ _ _  (4.4)    (4.4)
6. FOSAP Grants                                           4.5         0.9 c/        5.4
(4.5)                     (4.5)
7. Incremental Operating                                  2.4      2.4 a/b/c/d/     4.8
Costs                                                    (2.4)                     (2.4)
8. Refinancing PPFs                                       0.4                       0.4
(0-4)                     (0.4)
Total                       4.5           0.2          15.7         6.8          27.2
(4.5)        (0.2)        (15.7)                     (20.4)
Notes: Figures In parentheses are amounts financed by IDA credit.
a/ Parallel financing by KfW.
b/ Parallel financing by UNFPA.
c/ Communities' participation of 20 percent for FOSAP's activities and project's recurrent costs.
d/ Govemment's contribution to project's recurrent costs. Includes salaries of civil servants partIcipating in
project execution
and flnanced 100 percent by Govemment.
-24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB        OTHER         N.B.F     Total Cost
1. Goods
a) Contraceptives           0.88                     0.04                      0.92
(0.88)        -           (0.01)                   (0.89)
b) Other Goods              1.46         0.40                     0.67        2.33
(1.46)       (0.20)                               (1.66)
2. Civil Works                                        0.11                      0.11
(0.10)                   (0.10)
3. Services consultants                               2.74         1.10         3.84
(2.74)                   (2.74)
4. Training                                            1.95        0.42         2.37
(1.95)                   (1.95)
5. Studies/Survey                                     2.74         0.15         2.89
(2.74)                   (2.74)
6. FOSAP Grants                                       4.72         0.10         4.82
(4.72)                   (4.72)
7. Incremental Operating                              2.97         2.47         5.44
Costs                                                (2.34)                    (2.34)
8. Reflnancing PPFs                                    0.35                     0.35
(0.35)                   (0.35)
9. FOSAP Microcredlts                                  1.03        0.10         1.13
(1.03)                   (1.03)
Total                     2.34         0.40         16.63        5.01        24.20
(2.34)       (0.20)      (15.96)                  (18.50)
Note: Figures in parentheses are amount paid by IDA Credit.
-25 -



Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
-                                          J!erccutage ~~~~~~~~of Appraida
Compone    -: 1,      -praCoal Estinite   -       = Al/   t tEstimat&  r            -    ,
-~ -                   iDA       Govt.     Cj     r      InDA! 1GV              JO ,TAA,  G4ovt. a i,CoF.
A. Reinforce the National  7.36    0.61     0.08      5.56       037      0.15    75.5    60.7  187.5
capacity to Implement the
NPP
B. Strengthen the national  6.06   0.52     0.00      5.31       0.27     0.00     87.6   51.9   0.0
capacity to contain the
spread of HlV/AIDS/STDs
C. Put In place a social  2.42     0.14     4.40      2.26       0.00     4.67     93.4   0.0   106.1
marketing program for the
promotion of condoms
D. Promote the           4.63      0.92     0.00      5.38       0.20     0.00    116.2   21.7   0.0
participation of the private
sector and NGOs in
population, Family
Planning, and
HIV/AIDS/STDs programs
Total                   20.50      2.19     4.48      18.50      0.84     4.82     90.2   38.4   107.6
-26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not include an economnic analysis of the proposed project (it was not
customary to do so for health operations at the time the project was prepared) and the ICR team did not
attenpt to make a retrospective evaluation. However, the team concluded that, on a general note, the
project appeared to have contnbuted to improved equity in access to HIV/AIDS information and services,
especially for the, poorest women. This HIV/AIDS Equity Analysis is presented in Annex 9.
-27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation:
Most of the preparation was           6    1 Division Chief/Economist,
done as part of a "Health and              1 Population Spec.,
Population Project" which was              I Community-Development
split in two (See Note below               Spec., I Public Health Spec., I
Table on Staff)                           IEC/Pop. Spec, I Consultant
FY 1994
FY1995                     4    1 Population Spec.,
I Community-Development
Spec., I Public Health Spec., I
IEC/Pop. Spec.
Appraisal/Negotiation
FY1995                     7    1 Sr. Pop. Spec., I
Architect, I Pharmacist, I
STD Spec. I Implementation
Spec., I Community Dev.,
Spec., I Public Health Spec.
Supervision
FY1995                      4   1 Sr. Pop. Spec., I Public       S            S
Health/AIDS Control Spec.,
I Division Chief, I Sr. Staff
Assist.
FY1996                      3   1 IEC/Pop. Spec.,                S            S
I Implementation Spec., I Proc.
Spec.
FY1997                     4    1 AIDS control Spec., I IEC/Pop.  S           S
Spec., I Sr. Procurement Spec.,
1 consultant
FY1998                     10   I IEC/Pop. Spec.,                S            S
I Sr. Procurement Spec.,
I Architect, I Sr.
Implementation Spec., I Public
Health/STD Spec., 1 AIDS
Control Spec., I Pop. Spec., I
Economist/Social Fund Spec., I
Senior AIDS Adviser,
I Consultant.
FY1999                     11   1 IEC/Pop. Spec.,                S            S
2 Sr. Procurement Spec.,
I Sr. Implementation Spec.,
I Population Spec., 1 Sr. Public
Health Spec., I AIDS Control
Spec., I Social Protection Spec.,
Sr. AIDS Control Adviser,
I Economist/Social Fund Spec.,
-28 -



I Financial analyst, I Spec. in
Community Participation.
FY2000                      5   I EC/POP Spec.,                  S            S
I implementation Spec., I Public
Health Spec., I Demographer &
Economist, I Financial
Management Specialist.
FY2001                     5    1 IEC/POP Spec.,                 S            S
I implementation Spec., I Public
Health Spec., I Demographer &
Economist, I Financial
Management Specialist.
FY2002                      5   1 IEC/POP Spec.,                 S            S
I implementation Spec., I Public
Health Spec., I Demographer &
Economist, I Financial
Management Specialist.
ICR
FY2002                     3    1 Sr Population Spec.,
I Public Health Spec.,
I Implementation Spec.
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation: Most       23.3                       63.7
of the preparation was done as
part of a "Health and Population
Project" which was split in two
(See Note below Table on Staff)
Appraisal/Negotiation                  16.6                      66.6
Supervision                           101.8                     418.5
ICR                                     7.2                      33.1
Total                                 148.9                      581.9
Note: The low number of staff, w!eeks for project preparation and appraisal is related to the fact that most
of the project was prepared as part of a "Health and Population" operation. However, during the appraisal
mission of the Health and Populbation project (November 1993), it was decided to divide the project into
two separate projects and to add AIDS mitigation activities to the Population activities. The Health and
Safe Motherhood Project included all the health aspects of the prepared project and was to be implemnented
by the MOPH. The Population- and AIDS Project was to be implemented by the then Ministry of Planning
(now the MEPD). In fact there was only one project preparation mission in May 1994 when the AIDS
component was prepared. The.project appraisal was carried out in November 1994, at the same time as the
first supervision mission for thejHealth and Safe Motherhood Project. With regard to supervision, the
number of staff weeks is also 4l9,v in comparison with similar projects because the supervision always took
place at the same time as the supervision of the Health and Safe Motherhood project.
-29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
OSector Policies                    O H O SU * M O N O NA
F Physical                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Financial                          O H OSUOM ON * NA
O Institutional Development          O H O SU *M O N 0 NA
O Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N O NA
Gender                        OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)       OH OSUOM ON * NA
IS Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
F Public sector management           0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N * NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
OI Lending                                         OHS OS       *U     OHU
rI Supervision                                     OHS OS       O U    O HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
LI Government implementation performance           O HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
C Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       O U    O HU
OI Overall                                         OHS OS       O U    O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Population & AIDS Project: Borrower's Evaluation Reports
Republique du Tchad, Ministere de la Promotion Economique et du Developpement, Evaluation du Fond
de Soutien aux Activites en matiere de Population (FOSAP), Projet PPLS, by Hillary A. MILLER and
John JEPSEN (Development Alteratives, Inc., DAI), April 2001.
Republique du Tchad, Ministere de la Promotion Economique et du Developpement, Rapport Final du
Projet Population et Lutte contre le Sida, February 2002.
Republique du Tchad, Ministere de la Promotion Economique et du Developpement, Projet PPLS, Rapport
d'Evaluation du Volet Population, Premiere Partie: Niveau d'Application de la Declaration de la
Politique de Population et Contribution du PPLS a sa mise en oeuvre, by Jean WAKAM, April 2001.
Republique du Tchad, Ministere de la Promotion Economique et du Developpement, Projet PPLS, Rapport
d'Evaluation du Volet Population, Deuxieme Partie: Analyse des Organes et Mecanismes de Mise en
Oeuvre de la Declaration de la Politique de Population du Tchad et Assistance Technique, by Kuakuvi
GBENYON, April 2001.
Republique du Tchad, Ministere de la Promotion Economique et du Developpement, Evaluation du Projet
PPLS, Volet SIDA. Rapport Final. Mission au Tchad du 17 avril au 14 mai 2001, by Dr. Chi NGUYEN,
May 2001.
Official Documents, Sources of Data, and Analytical Reports for Chad
Association Tchadienne pour lEtude de la Population (ATEP), Various secondary analytical reports, either
thematic or regional, of the 1996-97 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), 1999-2000.
Documents on the Analysis of the HIV/AIDS Situation and on the Analysis of the Response (1999), PNLS
and UNAIDS.
National HIV/AIDS Control Program, Mid-Term Plans (1998 and 1993).
Republique du Tchad, Bureau Central du Recensement, Direction de la Statistique, des Etudes
Economiques et Demographiques, Ministere du Plan et de l'Amenagement du Territoire & Macro
International Inc., Enquete Dbmographique et de Sante, 1996-97 (Demographic and Health Survey, DHS),
NTjam6na & Calverton, Maryland USA.
Republique du Tchad, Enquete par grappes ti indicateurs multiples. Rapport complet (EIMT7), Ministry of
Economic Promotion and Development (MEPD), 2001.
Republique du Tchad, Ministere du Plan et de l'Amenagement du Territoire, Etat de la Population du
Tchad en 1997, December 1998.
Republique du Tchad, Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation, Politique de Population, January 1993.
Republique du Tchad, Ministere de la Promotion Economique et du Developpement, Enquete aupres des
- 32 -



b6n6ficiaires, PPLS 1, by Cadman Bedaou OUMAR, February 2002.
It6publique du Tchad, Ministere de la Promotion Economique et du Developpement, Projet Population et
Lutte contre le SIDA, Enquete Comportemnent, Attitude, Croyance, Pratiques/Indicateurs Prioritaires de
l'revention (CACP/IPP). Rapport provisoire, by CAMAN BEDAOU OUMAR, N'Djamnna, October
2001.
ERepublique du Tchad, Ministere de la Promotion Economique et du D6veloppement, Secretariat d'Etat,
I)irection g6nerale, Direction de la planification du developpement, Division de la Population, Population
du Tchad de 2000 d 2050, by Ngakoutou NINGAM, Ngoniri NODJIMBATEM, and Jean-Pierre
(IUENGANT, N'Djamena, November 2001.
WVorld Bank Documents
CHAD - Population and AIDS Control. Minutes of the Pre-appraisal Review Meeting, October 14, 1994.
StaffAppraisal Report (SAR), Population and AIDS Control Project, March 1995.
Development Credit Agreement (DICA), Population and AIDS Control Project, 1995.
Project Status Reports (PSR), 17 'Sequences.
EDA Aide-Memoires of Supervision and Mid-Term Review (MTR) Missions.
KfW Aide-Memoire of Evaluation Mission, March 2001.
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Second Population and AIDS Project, June 2001.
7chad. Le secteur de la sante au Tl chad: analyse et perspectives dans le cadre de la strategie de
reduction de la pauvrete, Washington, D.C.: International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
Health and Poverty Thematic Group, February 2002.
Other Analytical Reports
GUENGANT, J.-P. and J.F. MAY, Impact ot the proximate determinants on the tuture course of fertility
in sub-Saharan Africa", Populatiobn Bulletin of the United Nations, Special Issue (forthcoming).
Socio-Economic Impact of HIViA,IDS Report, prepared by the Swiss Tropical Institute.
-33 -



Additional Annex 8.Comments on the ICR by the Borrower
Note: This is the English translation of the comments on the ICR by the Borrower that were
originally written in French.
The ICR provides a comprehensive and in-depth analysis of all of the areas covered by the Population and
AIDS Project and its components, as well as the extent to which the Project succeeded despite its
constraints. The World Bank's involvement in its supervision was appreciated as can be seen, inter alia, in
the reactions of the partners. Similarly, the ICR analysis concerning the impact on institutional
development and on the PCT is both interesting and objective.
Nevertheless, it is worth noting that at the time of the preparation of the Population and AIDS Project, one
of the problems was the lack of qualified human resources, especially at the Division of Population (DP)
within the Ministry of Economic Promotion and Development (MEPD). This was mainly due to the fact
that the DP had just been established with the old staff from the initial Population Unit. Besides, the freeze
on integrating staff into the civil service did not help matters. All this was compounded by the deaths of
officials working in the DP and the Central Census Office. The recruitment of consultants by the
Population and AIDS Project and UNFPA did help to an extent, but the problem remains and needs to be
resolved. This is what has really hindered the performance of the DP, which has however made a great
deal of progress with regards to the two other sub-components of Component 1 - a point that has been
highlighted in the ICR.
Furthermore, the Govenment's apparent lack of commitrnent cannot be interpreted as implying a lack of
political will. In fact, the political will is clearly there - concrete expression of it was reflected in the
adoption of the Population Policy Declaration in 1993 and in the preparation of the Population and AIDS
Project The difficulties instead would flow from the fact that the mechanisms instituted during the drafting
of the National Population Policy (NPP) were not properly designed and were based more on theory than
on the ground realities. It is for this reason that the revised NPP should examnine this aspect of the question
in detail. Moreover, the refusal to sign the decree overhauling the High Committee for Population and
Human Resources (Haut Conseil de la Population et des Ressources Humaines) does not stem from a lack
of political will but is linked to a decision taken by the National Commission for Population and Human
Resources. The Commission decided at the time of the presentation of the Population and AIDS Project
appraisal report on the institutional aspect of the NPP's implementation, that this body should remain under
the authority of the State.
It is also necessary to point out that the non-disbursement of counterpart funds is a recurring problem
besetting all projects in Chad and is not just attributable to a lack of political will.
Lastly, as regards the graphs and table presented in Annex 9, it is also possible to use other data gleaned
from the National Survey on Priority Prevention Indicators (IPP) collected in 2001 and released in 2002.
- 34 -



Udditional Annex 9.HIV/AI DS Equity Analysis
A study of the Chad's health sector analyzed in the context of the poverty reduction strategy that was
carried out by the Bank in Febniary 2002 provides some insights into the equity issues for women,
especiallypoor women, in the area of health awareness outcomes (the study is listed in Annex 7).
The study showed that: (a) women's relative ignorance of HIVIAIDS (compared to what men know) has
decreased between 1996 and 2000; and (b) the increase in knowledge has been greatest among the poorest
women. Although this reflects the fact that there was more room for improvement among those groups, it
is nonetheless a sign that the project succeeded in reaching them; and that (c) the increased knowledge does
not seem to have made much, if any, impact on behavior. The first two changes are equity-enhancing, as it
nakes sense here to identify equity with equality. Both the gender and the wealth inequalities appear to
have decreased in Chad. However, it should be stressed that some of the evidence presented below refers
only to women and that this does not imply that there was no change between 1996 and 2000 in what men
knew about HIV/AlDS. Another conceptual difficulty, as with much health-related behavior, is to know
ivhat "knowledge" really means. Do people understand that they personally are vulnerable to HIV/AIDS?
Io they believe some misconceptions, that they think will protect them? When supposed knowledge does
riot appear to affect behavior, "aware of' or "heard of' may hardly amount to really knowing something.
This is however a common bias for all measurements of HIV/AIDS awareness.
Another difficulty in assessing the actual change of behavior among the women is attributable to the fact
tlhat the data pertain only to one point in time (1996) and one does not know whether in 2000 people were
protecting themselves any better than four years earlier. Furthermore, the condom use data here refer to the
"use of condoms" by the male sexual partners of the women. However, it is not clear whether it refers to
women's insistence on men using condoms when men have not taken the initiative. If the latter is true, the
problem is entirely with men, and "inequity" may then be measuring the difference between men who do use
condoms and men who do not, even when women know enough to think they should.
T'he other behavior measure, knowing about HIV tests and taking themn, is even harder to interpret, because
ii people have almost no chance at effective treatment, it is not surprising that they do not get tested. What
is needed is more information as to why they do not get tested, and especially about how they behave once
they have had a test. Do those who test positive reveal this and protect their partners? The behavior that
matters most, for which there are no available data, is the number of partners per unit of time. In
conclusion, it is probably correct that increased awareness is helping to reduce HIV/AIDS transmission, yet
this awareness has not translated yet into major behavioral changes in Chad.
Nonetheless, the data presented below show overall that the knowledge about HIV/AIDS grew among
women in the poorest groups in Chad between 1996 and 2000. Such evidence on growing health-related
awareness among poorest groups, especially among the poorest women, are rather uncommon for SSA
during recent years. In the case of Chad, these results should in all likelihood be ascribed to the activities
ofthis project. However, the changes in HIV/AIDS-related behavior could not be measured with any
degree of confidence given the data currently available.
The following are excerpts from the above-mentioned study.
Knowledge about HIV/AIDS was already relatively high among Chadian men in 1996: 90.3% had heard of
HIV/AIDS and 63% were aware of it being sexually transmitted. The knowledge was greater among men in
higher socio-economic groups (analysis carried out by quintiles, based on the household assets method). The more
serious issue at the time was the scarce knowledge about HIV/AIDS among Chadian women in general, especially
- 35 -



among the poorest, least educated, and those who were Muslim. The difference in knowledge levels between males
and females was particularly high in the poorest groups, clearly underlining their vulnerability due to a lack of
health-related knowledge (see Graph 9.1).
Graph 9- 1: Knowledge of HIV/AIDS according to socio-economic groups (quintiles) and gender. Chad 1996
100 -
80I
60' EEuI                                                          ;
40                                                        - _   W
20''
Poor         Q2         Q3         Q4        Rich
Source: Chad Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), 1996.
In 1996, when looking at the influence of knowledge on behavior-- particularly with respect to the use of condoms
-- the gap was even wider between males and females and between rich and poor women. Although the use of
condoms was low across all groups of women, it was fourteen times lower in the poorest group as compared to the
richest group (see Graph 9.2).
- 36 -



Graph 9-2: Knowledge and use of condoms according to socio-economic groups and gender. Chad 1996
100
80
60_M Poor
* 02
%           *      '                                                             Q32
3043
40
* Rich
20
0N
Knowledge of                         Use of condoms
co sMen       Women           Men                Women
Source: Chad Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), 1996.
Over the past few years, major progress has been achieved. The level of knowledge among rural women increased
significantly between 1996 and 2000 especially with regard to HIV transmission from mother to foetus. Yet,
knowledge about the principal mean of HIV transmission in Chad- sexual transmission - still remains low.
Even so, the increase in the level of knowledge has been highly positive, mainly women in the poorest groups
having benefitted from IEC and social marketing activities in recent years (see Graph 9-3 and Graph 9-4).
- 37 -



Graph 9-3: Change in the level of HIV/AIDS knowledge among women in rural areas.
Chad 1996-2000
*1996         *00
0 40
20
Have heard of AIDS       Aware of the sexual    Aware of mother-child
transmission of AIDS   transmission
Source: Chad Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) 1996 & Chad Multiple Indicators Survey 2000 (EIMT).
Graph 9-4: Change in the levels of knowledge among women according to socio-economic groups. Chad
1996-2000.
100
80
60  _=S|                                     >        |     t 
40
20
Poor              02               Q3              Q4              Rich
Knowieoge OT AIlUS: I95             n I KnowIeage oT Alub:20u
Knowledge of sexual transmission 1996  la Knowledge of transmission through sex 2000
Aware of the transmission from mother to child  p3 Aware of mother-child transmission 2000
1996
Source: Chad Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) 1996 & Chad Multiple Indicators Survey 2000 (EIMT).
Improvement in the levels of knowledge might not have resulted in a major behavioral changes and/or in actions
that might have had an impact on the transmission of HIV/AIDS. Unfortunately, available data are inconclusive
in making this determination. In 2000, according to the Chad Multiple Indicators Survey of 2000 (EIMT), only
-38 -



9% of women knew where to go to obtain the recommended HIV test and less than 1% took a voluntary HIV test.
Differences between socio-economic groups with regard to this kind of change in behavior are very pronounced.
Almost five times more women in the highest socio-economic group know where to go to obtain the recommended
HIV test, as compared to the lowest socio-economic group (see Table 9-1).
Table 9-1: Behavior in terms of the recommended HIV test. Chad 2000
Quintile of Wealth            Know where to obtain the     Have been tested for HIV
recommended HIV test
Poor                          5.2                          0.3
Q2                            4.7                          0.4
Q3                            10.0                          1.0
Q4                            14.2                          1.3
Q5                            25.6                         3.5
Source: Chad Multiple Indicators Survey 2000 (EIMT).
- 39 -



MAP SECTION



IBRD 26775
The  boundaries, colo,s,
denominations and any
other informotion shos.n
or) this map do not
imply, on  the  port of
The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legol
status  of  any  territory,
or any endorsement
LIBv,A     or acceptonce of such
CHADbonais
POPULATION AND \
AIDS CONTROL 
PROJECT
-- Main Roads
-- Secondary Roads       ,                                                             2
' Rivers               |
Prefecture Boundaries
|              BORKOU - ENNEDI - TIBESTI
ILOMETER5 0 5  00  IS  200  250                                                          i
L  J      I  I
MILES 0  50  10    SO0 
r1e i/r 
NIGER
KANEM                                 BILTINE       r            S'DA
iv \ ~~~~~CENTRAL AE-.t\
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n
|Moussi ^ ^Fi00   7yW  tgMoro soloM                      1995
t      BolbakoU>@           2   \             20-~~~~~~~~~~~glm
Ati~ ~~~~~~~~~~MRH19









IMAGING
Report No.:         24344
Type:     lCR



