                                    Documentof
                                 The WorldBank




                                                     ReportNo.: 31746




              PROJECTPERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTREPORT

                                       CHAD

                 POPULATIONAND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
                                (CREDIT NO. 2692)


                                   March7,2005




Sector, Tlzematicand Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

 Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
 Currency Unit = FCFA
 ExchangeRateEffectiveAugust           ExchangeRate Effective          Exchange Rate EffectiveMarch
 2004                                  December 31,2001                 lst,1995
 53 1CFA Francs = U S 1.OO             744 CFA Francs= US$l.OO         5 14 CFA Francs= USSl.OO
 US$0.1883= 100CFA Francs              US$O.1344= 100CFA Francs        USSO. 1946= 100 CFA Francs

 Abbreviations and Acronyms

 AIDS        Acquired ImmuneDeficiency                 IEC       information, education, and
              Syndrome                                           communication
AMASOT       Association pour le Marketing             KAP       knowledge, attitudes, and practices
             Social au Tchad (Social Marketing         KfW       KreditanstaltFur Wiederaufbau
             Association o f Chad                      M&E       monitoring and evaluation
ARV          anti-retroviral                           MASACOT Project Social Marketing Unit
ASTBEF       Association Tchadiennepour le             M C H     Maternal and child health
             Bien-Etre Familiale (Chadian              MoPC      MinistryofPlanningand
             Association for FamilyWell-being)                   Cooperation
 CERPOD      Centre de Recherche sur la                MoPH      MinistryofPublic Health
             Populationpour le Ddveloppement           MTR       Mid-termreview
             (Center for Researchon Population         NGO       nongovernmental organization
             and Development)                          OED       Operations EvaluationDepartment
 CNLS        ComitdNational deLutte contre le          PAIP      Programme d 'Action et
             SIDA (National AIDS Committee)                      d 'InvestissementPrioritaire en
 CNPRH       CommissionNationale de                              mati8re de Population (Program for
             Population et des Ressources                        Priority Actions and Investmentin
             Humaines (National Population and                   Population)
             HumanResources Commission)                PCT       project coordinationteam
CPR          contraceptive prevalence rate             PLWHA     people living with HIV/AIDS
CPPRH        Commission Preyectorale de                PNLS      ProgrammeNational deLutte
             Population et des Ressources                        Contre le SIDA (National Program
             Humaines (Prefectoral Commission                    ofAIDS Control)
             on Populationand Human                    PPAR      Project Perfonnance Assessment
             Resources)                                          Report
CTLS         Comite' Technique deLutte Contre          PPLS      Projetpopulation et Lutte contre le
             le SIDA (Technical Committee for                    SIDA (Population and AIDS
             AIDS Control)                                       Control Project)
DHS          demographic and healthsurvey              PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
FOSAP       Fonds de Soutien aux Activitis en          STD       sexually transmitted disease
            mati2re de Population (Social Fund)        TB        tuberculosis
HCPRH       Haut Conseil de la Population et           TOR       terms o freference
            des RessourcesHumaines (High               UNFPA     UnitedNations PopulationFund
            Council on Populationand Human             UNICEF    UnitedNations Children's Fund
            Resources)                                 USAID     UnitedStates Agency for
HIV         HumanImmunodeficiency Virus                          InternationalDevelopment
ICR         ImplementationCompletion Report            VCT       Voluntary counseling and testing


FiscalYear:
Government:               January 1-December     3I



Director-General, Operations Evaluation                     : Mr.GregoryK.Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department                  : Mr.Ajay Chlxbber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global EvaluationGroup        : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                                : MsDenise Vaillancourt

                                                            i


    OED Mission: Enhancing developmenteffectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programs and activities of the World Bankfor two
 purposes:first,to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessandto verify that the Bank's work is
 producingthe expected results,andsecond, to helpdevelopimproveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis givento those that are
 innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhaverequestedassessments; and those that are likely to generate
 importantlessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport largerevaluation
 studies.
       A ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is basedon a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department)and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing countryfor onsitediscussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
 validateand augment the informationprovided in the ICR, as well as examine issuesof special interestto broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subjectto a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsibleBank department and amended as necessary.The completedPPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review;the borrowers' commentsare attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment reporthas beensent to the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


 About the OED Rating System
      The time-testedevaluationmethods used by OED are suited to the broad rangeof the World Bank's work.
 The methods offer bothrigorand a necessary levelof flexibilityto adapt to lendinginstrument, projectdesign, or
 sectoralapproach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluation criterion (more informationis availableon the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectivesare consistentwith the country's
currentdevelopment prioritiesandwith current Bank countryand sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporate
goals (expressedin PovertyReduction Strategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies,SectorStrategy Papers,
OperationalPolicies).Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expectedto be achieved,taking into
account their relativeimportance.Possibleratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extentto which the projectachieved, or is expectedto achieve,a return higherthan the
opportunitycost of capitaland benefits at leastcost compared to alternatives.Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generallyapplied to adjustmentoperations.
      Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, HighlyUnlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improvesthe abilityof a countryor region
to make more efficient,equitableand sustainableuse of its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a)
betterdefinition,stability,transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsand/or (b)
better alignment of the missionand capacityof an organizationwith its mandate, which derivesfrom these
institutionalarrangements.InstitutionalDevelopment Impactincludesbothintendedand unintendedeffects of a
project.Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved,or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently.Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     BankPerformance: The extent to which services providedby the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supportedimplementationthrough appropriatesupervision(includingensuringadequatetransitionarrangements
for regularoperationof the project).Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrowerassumedownershipand responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements,towards the
achievement of development objectivesand sustainability.Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory.Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                        ...
                                                                        111




 Contents

 Principal Ratings         ................................................................................................................       v

Key Staff Responsible               ........................................................................................................      v

Preface    ..............................................................................................................................         ..
                                                                                                                                                 vi1

Summary       ...........................................................................................................................        ix

1 BackgroundandContext
  .                                              ............................................................................................     1

2 .  Objectives and Design                ..................................................................................................      7

3 Implementation and Costs
  .                                                ..........................................................................................     9

         Implementation Experience .....................................................................................                          9
         Planned VersusActual Costs and Financing......................................................... 13
4 Outputs and Outcomes by Objective
 .                                                                    ........................... ...........................................    14

         Population..............................................................................................................                14
         HIV/AIDS...............................................................................................................                 17
5.  Ratings     ............................................................. ..........................................................
                                                                                    ,                                                            25

6 Findings and Lessons
 .                                       .................................................................................................       30

References     .........................................................................................................................         37

Annex A    .Basic      Data Sheet           ..............................................................................................       41

Annex B    .Personsand             Organizations Consulted                           .......................................................... 43

Annex C    .Population           and AIDS Control Project (Credit No 2692) ..Presentation of
    Project Components                ...................................................................................................
                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                                 51

Annex D Program and Project Data
           .                                                  .............................................................................     54

Annex E    .Key     Targets and Indicators Supported UnderPopulation and AIDS
    Project   .........................................................................................................................         64

Annex F   .Borrower's            Comments             ....................................................................................      67



Ths reportwas preparedbyDenise Vaillancourt. who assessedthe project inFebruary 2004.The report
was edited by William B.Hurlbut. and Pilar Barquero provided admmistrative support.

                                                                 iv


Boxes

Box 1. 1994 PopulationPolicy Objectives: ........................................................................                      2
Box 2. Second Medium-TermPlanfor AIDS Control- Strategic Orientations (1995-
     1999) ........................................................................................................................... 4

Tables

Table 1.Summary OED Ratings by Objective.................................................................                             25

Figures

Figure 1.ReportedAIDS Cases 1986. .....................................................................
                                                         2002                                                                          3
Figure2.Useo fcontraception amongmarriedwomen andthose inconsensual union,
     1996 and2000........................................................................................................... 16
Figure3.Condom Sales. 1996-2002.................................................................................                      19
Figure4.Percent ofmenandwomen surveyed declaring they have heardofAIDS.......22
Figure5 Percent ofmen andwomenwho know condoms are ameans ofprotection.....22
        .
Figure 6.Percent o fmenand women who know that fidelity i s a means ofprotection...22
Figure7.EvolutioninLevels o fKnowledgeofWomen by Socioeconomic Group. 1996-
    2000........................................................................................................................... 23
Figure 8.Ever-Use o f Condoms (percent). 1996 and 2003 ..............................................                                 23
Figure9.Trends inAdult PrevalenceinThree Cities ......................................................                                24
Figure 10.HIVPrevalenceAmong Women UsingPrenatal Services inFour Urban Sites.
    1999-2002 .................................................................................................................       25

                                                          V




 PrincipalRatings
                                                 ICR *                                      PPAR                 ~-
 Outcome                                    Satisfactory                           ModeratelySatisfactory
 Sustainability                                 Likely                                      Likely
 InstitutionalDevelopment                      Modest                                     Substantial
 Impact
 Bank Performance                           Satisfactory                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                        Satisfactory                                  Satisfactory

* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleoperational division of the Bank.



Key StaffResponsible
-Project                        Task Manager/Leader                  SectorManager              CountryDirector
                                                                                    --I
 Appraisal                             Eva Jarawan                       David Berk             FranciscoAguirre-
                                                                                                      Sacasa
  Completion                         MicheleL. Lioy                  Arvil Van Adams             RobertCalderisi


                                            vii




 Preface

         This is theProject Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the First
 Population andAIDS Control Project inChad. This project was financed through IDA
 Credit No. 2692 inthe amount o fUS$20.4 millionequivalent (13.9 million SDR) with a
 plannedgovernment and community contributions o fUS$1.3 million andUS$l.O
 million, respectively, andprojected cofinancingby KfW and UNFPA inthe respective
 amounts o fUS$4.4 million andUS$O. 1million for a total cost o fUS$27.2 million. The
 credit was approved on March 23, 1995, became effective on September 8, 1995, and
 closed on December 31,2001, after a six-month extension. The credit was fully
 disbursed.

         The findings o fthis assessmentare basedon an Operations Evaluation
 Department(OED) missionto ChadinFebruary 2004. Themissionmet inN'Djamena
 with: authorities andstaffo fthe Ministryo fPlan, Developmentand Cooperation
 (including the Project CoordinationTeam); the Ministryo fPublic Health; other public
 sector agencies implementing population andHIV/AIDSactivities; the Social Marketing
Association (AMASOT); the Social Fund(FOSAP); representatives o f civil society; and
keydonors supporting population andHW/AIDS activities inChad. The mission also
visitedthe cities (andprefectures) o fMongo (Guera), Mao (Kanem), Bongor (Mayo-
Kebbi), andMoundou(Logone Occidental), interviewingpublic sector andcivil society
actors andbeneficiaries and visiting selected facilities, researcwacademic institutions,
andcommunity-based projects. Keydocumentary sources consultedinclude: (a) World
Bankproject files; and(b) project-related reporting andevaluation, epidemiological data,
studies andresearch on populationandHIV/AIDS, much o fit generated inChad.

        This PPARis one o f six conducted on the "first generation" o fthe Bank's
HIV/AIDS projects, as background for a larger OED evaluation of the development
effectiveness of World Bank's assistance for fighting the AIDS epidemic. Inlight o fthat
purpose, relatively more material has beenpresented inthis "enhanced" PPARthan i s the
OED standard.

        The OED mission gratefully acknowledges all those who made time for
interviews andprovided documents and information.

        Following standard OED procedures, copies o fthe draft PPARwill be sent to the
relevant government officials andagencies for their review and comments. Comments
received are incorporated into the PPAR andpresented inAnnex F.


                                              i x




 Summary
         The objectives o fthe PopulationandAIDS Control Project (Credit No. 2692 of
 13.9 million SDR) were to advance the onset o f fertility decline by increasing the modern
 contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) from 1percent in 1990to 10percent by 2000, andto
 slow the spread o f HlV infectionbypromotingbehavioral change. The project was
managed and implementedefficiently overall; and the credit was fully disbursed.
Implementation, however, was constrained bythe lack o f Government counterpart
financing andweak capacity o fpublic sector implementing agencies.

        In1992 Chadwas oneofthe few Saheliancountries that didnothave a
populationpolicy. However, deteriorating socioeconomic conditions and analysis o f
populationissues, supported bythe World Bank, prompted in 1994the preparation o f a
nationalpopulationpolicy and the repeal o f the 1920law which prohibited
contraceptives. Populationprogram efforts were constrainedbypoor coverage and
quality o f family planning andweak capacity for the coordination o f activities and for the
collectionand analysis o f data. Strong disincentives for decreasing fertility includedhigh
levels o fpoverty and highdependence on childrento supplement family income and
provide old age social security, and very highinfant and child mortality.

        The first cases o f AIDS were reported in 1986, with a total accumulation o f2,866
reported cases by 1994, 97 percent o fwhich were attributed to heterosexual transmission.
Government's earliest response under its short-term plan(1988-89) and first medium-
term plan(1990-93) for AIDS control focused onprogram start-up, capacity-building,
surveillance andpreventionactivities. Denial and stigmawithin the Government and in
society at large were pervasive.

        Population. Project assistancedidnot succeedinraisingthe modernCPR to 10
percent. Bythe project's end, CPR was estimated at 2 percent. Available data indicate
that the total fertility rate inChad has remained constant over the life o fthe project at
around 6.6 children. At the time o fthe project's mid-term review, the Bank and the
Borrower acknowledged that the objectives were, inretrospect, not realistic andwould
not be achieved. UNFPA hiredconsultants to set new targets on the basis o fthe DHS
data, but their work progressed slowly andthe project objectives were not amended.

        HIV/AIDS. Epidemiologicalandbehavioralsurveillance was improvedunder the
project and helpeddocument the seriousness and scope o fthe epidemic. The project was
successful inestablishing a social marketingprogram that has increased the availability
o f condoms inChad at an affordable price. Against a target o f 14 million, a total o f 19.9
million condoms were sold, o fwhich about 3 million are estimated to have been sold in
neighboring countries. While condoms were taboo at the start o fthe project, they are
now sold openly inshops, market stands, inns and hotels across the country. There i s
considerably less stigma today associatedwith the purchase and use o f condoms. The
project has mobilized and financed a wide response from civil society organizations, and
a response from various sectors inthe public sector at central and decentralized levels.

                                                 X




        Theproject has succeededinincreasing awarenessandknowledge o fHIV/AIDS
andininciting safer behavior. The most significant improvements inawarenessand
behavior are found among women, rural residents, and the poorest income quintiles with
consequent reductions indisparities between men andwomen, urbanandrural residents
andthepoorest andrichest segments o fthe population. Condomusehas increased
among menandwomen, although levels are still relatively low. Inthe absence o f
baseline data, it i s difficult to evaluate the extent to which the project has slowed the
spread o f HIVinfection. Available data revealthat HIVprevalence has risenover the
past decade inthe general populationand that it may have stabilized amongpregnant
women usingprenatal services inurbanareas. However, the HIVprevalence rate does
not yield insights into the change inthe rate o fnew infection.

        Ratings. This project i sjudgedto have had a moderately satisfactory outcome
overall, based on an unsatisfactory outcome o fthe population objective and a satisfactory
outcome o f the HN/AIDS objective. Institutionaldevelopment is rated as substantial;
andsustainability o fproject efforts is likely. BothBankandBorrowerperformance was
satisfactory.

LESSONS

    The Bankcan be instrumental instimulating government commitment with regardto
    populationand HIVIAIDSthrough policy dialogue, advocacy, technical support and
    lending,butthat support is insufficientto consolidate and sustain the commitment.
    Other factors that are critical to raisingand sustaining Government commitment are
   the relevance o fthe objective (determined by the availability o f local evidence and
   data) andthe degree o fmobilization o f civil society.
   The stimulation and nurturingo f broad-based nationalcommitment requires
   continuous andmultiple efforts, givenpopulationmobility and turnover inpublic
   sector positions.
   Eveninthe context o f a multisectoral approach to the achievement o fHIV/AIDS and
   populationobjectives, the role o f the health sector i s pivotal.
   The absence o fbaseline data for keyindicators and o f a monitoring and evaluation
   planundermines opportunities to track and fine-tune the performance andimpact o f
   national populationandHIVIAIDS efforts.
   Intensiveinformation campaigns inthe early years o fthe project followed by the
   recruitment o f intermediaryNGOsto build capacity onsite andto stimulate the
   formation o fnew associations, provedto be very effective inengaging civil society in
   populationand HIVIAIDS activities.




                                                                          Gregory K.Ingram
                                                                           Director-General
                                                                        Operations Evaluation

                                                      1


 1.        Backgroundand Context

 1.1       This is the sixth o fa series o fPPARsthat are beingundertaken onthe "first
 generation" o f completed Bank-financed HIV/AIDSprojects, as background for a larger
 OED evaluation o f the development effectiveness o fthe World Bank's AIDS assistance.'
 Inlight ofthat purpose, relativelymorematerialhasbeenpresentedinthis "enhanced"
 PPAR thanis the OED standard. Thisproject was chosen for assessment to provide the
 main study with lessons and insight on the experience o fthe Bank's HIV/AIDS
 assistanceto a West African country, prior to the design and approval o fthe MAP.2

 1.2       GeneralContext3Chad is one ofthe poorest countries inthe world with an
 estimated four-fifths o f its population o f 8.1 million livingon less than a dollar a day, and
 halfo fthe populationlivingon less than 50 cents per day. More than 50 percent o f
 Chadians over the age o f 15 are illiterate and only about 30 percent o f the populationhas
 access to potable water. Epidemic and endemic diseases are prevalent inall regions o f the
 country andthere i s only one doctor for every 29,000 inhabitants. Infant and child
 mortality were estimated at 102.6 and 194.3, respectively, andmaternalmortality was
 estimated at 827 per 100,000 live birthsin2000.4 Life expectancy i s estimated at 50
 years. Genderdisparities are acute andhighlycorrelated to poverty inChad.

 1.3      Chad is a vast territory (over 1.2million squarehlometers) with only about 550
 kilometers o fpaved road. Geographc isolationandhtghtransport costs undermine the
 viability o feconomic activity andconstrain accessto basic social services andinformation.
Development efforts are further challengedbythe broadcultural diversity o fthe country
with about 200 ethnic groups and 120distinct languages. Followingdecadeso fcivil war, a
 democratization process has taken hold since the mid-1990s, butpolitical stability
remains fragile.

 1.4      Chad's recent macroeconomic performance has been satisfactory with an increase
inthe rate ofrealgrowthofGDP from anaverageof3.1 percent for theperiod 1997-
2000 to 8.5 percent in2001, 9.7 percent in2002 and 11.2 percent in2003, largely due to
investments inthe Chad-Cameroon pipeline, completed inearly 2003. With full
productionachieved in2004, it i s estimated that some US$lOO millioninoil revenues




1. The other projectsassessedto date includethe Kenya SexuallyTransmitted Infections Project,the
Zimbabwe Sexually Transmitted InfectionsPrevention and Care Project, the First India NationalAIDS
ControlProject, the first and second BrazilAIDS and SexuallyTransmitted DiseaseControl Projects,and
the Kingdom of Cambodia Disease Control and Health DevelopmentProject.
2. The first Multi-CountryHlVlAlDS Program(MAP), a horizontalAdaptable ProgramLoan (APL)for Africa
Region's intensifiedassistanceto the fight against HIV/AIDS, in the amountof US$500 million, was
approvedon September 12,2000. MAP I1for an additionalUS$500millionwas approvedon December 20,
2001.
3. Data and informationcited inthis section are drawn from Chad's Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper
(PRSP)of October 7,2003, andfrom the World Bank's CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS)for Chadof
November 12,2003.       '

4. Ministerede la Sante et des Affaires Socialeset Banque Mondiale, March2004.

                                                         2


 will be generated this year, aportionofwhich is supposedto be earmarked for
 expenditures inpriority sector~.~

 1.5       Population.The first populationcensusestimated Chad's populationto be about
 6.2 million inApril 1993 and growing at an annual rate o f2.5 percent. The total fertility
 rate was estimated at 5.7 live birthsper women, lower than the average o f 6.6 for Sub-
 SaharanAfrica. The population o fN'Djamena increased fivefold between 1960 and
 1990.

 1.6       In1992Chadwas one o fthe                 Box 1.1994 Population Policy Objectives:
 few Sahelian countries that didnot
have a populationpolicy, inpart                     A Summary

because o f the large size o fthe                   1 Improve coverage and access to basic health and nutrition

country and low population density.                   services (including reproductivehealth services) and education
                                                      services
However, deteriorating                              1 Decrease annual population growth from 2.5 percent to 2
socioeconomic conditions and                          percentby 2005

analysis o fpopulationissues                        m Strengthenunderstanding of the relationship between popula-
                                                      tion anddevelopment
increased Government awareness o f                  m Promote women's rights, social status and participation in
population growth as a development                    development

issue, andpromptedtwo key actions:                  m Promote and ensure the rights and well-being o f children and
                                                      vouth.
(a) the preparationo f a national
populationpolicy andthe creation o f institutions for its oversight andmanagement; and
(b) the repeal ofthe 1920law whichprohibitedthe importation, distribution anduse of
contraceptives. In 1994,the Government o f Chad adopted its Declarationo fPopulation
Policy (DPP), which outlined nationalpriorities and strategies inpopulation and family
planning(see Box 1).

1.7       Receptivityto the notiono fcontrolling family size was very weak inChad. First,
extremely highlevels o fpovertyinChadpromptedcouples to have manychildren as a
means o f supplementing family income andproviding social security intheir old age.
Second, civil conflict was another deterrent to limitingfamily size inthe face o fcontinued
tensions among ethnic groups. Third, infant andchildmortalitywere very high(estimated,
respectively, at 132and222 per thousand in 19936),incitinghghfertility levels as women
triedto compensatefor the loss o f children. Furthermore, religious leadershavehad a very
strong influenceon Chadian society andmanytook aposition against the use o fmodern
contraception.

1.8       At thetimeofproject preparationthe MinistryofPlanandCooperation (MoPC)
was responsible for populationpolicy implementationandoversight, with the Ministry o f
Public Health (MoPH) havingprimaryresponsibilityfor family planning.Within MoPC a
Population Division (Division de la Population) was created to facilitate the coordination
o fpopulationpolicy implementation and a Directorate o f Statistics ando fEconomic



5. Prioritysectors include: health,social affairs, education, infrastructure,ruraldevelopment,and
environmentand water resources.
6. Ministryof Healthstatistics.

 Studies' was responsible for demographc researchandanalysis. Giventhe multi-sectoral
nature o fthe populationagenda, ahgh-level council onpopulation(Haut Conseil de la
Population et des Ressources Humaines ,HCPRII),chairedbythe President o fthe
Republic, was set up to define the general orientations o fpopulationpolicy andto adopt
recommendations o f aninter-ministerial populationcommittee (Comission Nationalepour
la Population et les RessourcesHumaines, CNPRH,),chaired bythe Minister o fPlanand
Cooperation. Themandate o fthe CNPRIIwas to preparepolicy andcoordinate its
implementation. The mainissues constraining population programefforts in 1994were (a)
poor coverage andquality o f familyplanninginformationand services'; (b) limiteddemand
for these services; and (c) weak capacity for the planningandcoordination o fpopulation
activities and for the collection and analysis o fsocia1and demographc data through
research, studies and surveys (World Bank 1995).

 1.9      Health andHIV/AIDS.The leading causes o f illness and death inChad
(infectious andparasitic diseases,' pregnancy-related conditions, andmalnutrition) are all
preventable and amenable to the effective delivery o f a basic package o fhealth services
(including communicable disease control and family planning). Health system
performance inthe early 1990s suffered from low coverage, poor access, limited and
inefficiently allocated resources, lack o f qualified health personnel, lack o f strategic
management capacity and an overly centralized organization, An indicator o fthe health
sector's inadequateperformance inChad i s the extremely low child immunization
coverage o f 3 percent inthe early 1990s(World Bank 1992).

Figure 1.ReportedAIDS Cases 1986-2002


                3000                                                 2748

                2500

        I s5t
           @    2000

                1500
          v)    1000

          It    500

                  0




                                Source: MoPH/PNLS EpidemiologicalData




7. Directionde la Statistiquedes Etudes konomiques et Demographiques - DSEED.
8. Weak capacity was due bothto a lack of qualified health personnelandto a lack of prioritizationof family
planninginformationand serviceswithin the minimumpackage of services.
9. Diarrhea,tuberculosis,malaria, trypanosomiaisis,onchocerciaisis,meningitis,cholera, measles,
STDs/AIDS.

                                                      4


  1.10    The first cases o fAIDS were reported in 1986, with a total accumulationo f 2,866
 reported cases by 1994 (Figure 1). At the time o fproject preparation, adult prevalence for
 HWOwas estimatedbyMoPHat 3percentwiththehighestratesinthe south andwest of
 the country." Ninety-sevenpercent o freported AIDS cases were estimated to have been
 causedby sexual transmission, a result o fmultiplepartners, lack o f education and
 information, and difficult accessto condoms.l2Poverty, conflict, and successive droughts
 have contributedto this phenomenon by encouraging significant migration and
 commercial sex.

 1.11 In1988, the                      Box 2. Second Medium-Term Plan for AIDS Control-
 Government set up an                  Strategic Orientations (1995-1999)

 institutional framework for           Prevention of:
 the fight against                         a.   sexual transmission

 HIVIAIDS,13andprepared                    b. transmission through unsafeblood
                                           c.   mother-to-child transmission
 and launched a short-term             Mitigation of:
 planfor AIDS control                      a.   the health impact of sero-positive patients with or without AIDS
 coveringthe period 1988-                  b. the social impact ofAIDS on patientsand their families
 89, followed by the first                 c.   the impact on public expenditure, especially for the health sector

 medium-termplancovering                   d.   the impoverishing effects o f the disease through income-
                                                -generation activities.
 the period 1990-93. Early          I                                                                             I
 activities focused on
 program start-up, capacity building, early surveillance activitie~,'~               andpreventionfor the
 general public, and for prostitutes, youth, andthe military.A second medium-termplan,
prepared duringproject preparation, accorded highest priority to prevention (see Box 2),
 at a cost o f about US$9 million(excluding social marketingand social fund).

 1.12    Despitethe institutional andpolicy framework established for HIV/AIDS by the
Government o f Chad, there was still widespread denial and stigmawithin Government
andinsociety at large. Manyinterviewsrevealthat HIV/AIDS was not referredto byits
name, but instead referredto as "the sickness" or "the syndrome." There was reported to
be widespread denial among Government officials at central and decentralized levels o f
administration, many stating that this was a creation o f donors. Religious leaders were
also reported to be strongly resistant inthe early 1990s to the promotion o f condoms and


10. The percentof adults infectedwith HIV at a given time.
11. In 1993,88 percentof all reportedcases camefrom Ndjamenaand Moundou.
12. Mother-to-childtransmissionwas also acknowledged as a means of infection,with some4,800 children
estimatedto be infected in 1994, alongwith the transfusionof unsafe blood supplies (WorldBank 1995).
13. Consisting of: (a)the NationalAIDS Committee (ComiteNationalde Lutte contre le SIDA, CNLS),
chairedby the Ministerof Health and composedof six ministers,responsiblefor oversight of all HIWAIDS
controlactivities,(b) the TechnicalCommittee for AIDS Control (ComiteTechniquede Lutte Contrele SIDA,
CTLS), chaired by the DirectorGeneralof Health, and (c) the NationalAIDS Control Program(Programme
Nationalde Lutte Contre le SIDA, PNLS)within MoPH, responsiblefor day-to-day implementationand
follow-upof AIDS activities.
14. Surveillanceactivities includedseroprevalencesurveys in selected prefectures(Abeche,Sarh,
Moundou, Bongor and Ndjamena) and limitedsurveillanceof pregnantwomen, blood donors and TB
patients.

                                                        5


 interventions with commercial sex workers, whch they considered to be inconflict with
 religious principles. Strongly influencedbyreligious and traditional leaders, and lacking
 basic facts about HIV/AIDS andhow to prevent its transmission, Chadian society at large
 exhibited great discomfort with discussion o f the disease itself andwithways andmeans
 o f controlling it. Societal resistance to early HIVIAIDS control efforts was reportedby
 many o fthose interviewed, who cited billboards set up inmajor cities beingtorn down
 and destruction o f equipment after informationand social marketingcampaigns.

 1.13     PreviousBank Support. The Bank's first support to Chad's health sector was
 through a US$7 millionhealthcomponent under the Social DevelopmentAction Project,
 approved inJune 1991,15w h c h sought to improve basic social services inthe city of
 N'Djamena andinthe southern regiono f Tandjilk (the only regionnot covered by donor
 t up port).'^ The Bank's engagement inhumandevelopment inChad was intensifiedin
 1992 with the preparation and discussion o f an in-depth analysis o fthe population, health
 and nutrition sectors." This report highlightedthe negative consequenceso f highfertility
 on the healtho fmothers and children, on poverty at the household level, and on the
 socio-economic development prospects o fthe country at large." With regard to health,
 the report recommended steps to improve the quality, coverage and cost-effectiveness of
 healthservices through decentralization, capacity buildingandthe control o f key
 diseases, highlightingAIDS, inparticular."

 1.14     This dialogue culminatedinthe preparation o f a proposedHealth and Population
 project, which was ultimately split into two projects: (a) the Healthand Safe Motherhood
 Project, approved inJune 1994, the Bank's first freestandinghealth sector investment;"
 and (b) the PopulationandAIDS Controlproject, the subject o fthis review. The decision
to split support into two projects was based on a number o f factors. First, the population
component was not sufficiently prepared inrelationto the rest o fthe original project

 15. Credit2156-CD in the amount of SDR 10.4 million (USfi13.4 million equivalent)was approvedon June
 14, 1990, and madeeffectiveon April 14, 1991.A supplementalcredit (Credit No. 21561-CD) in the amount
of SDR 6.8 million(US9.8 millionequivalent)was approved on November IO, 1994,and made effective on
September 6, 1995.Both creditswere closed on April 30, 1998.
16. The Bank's final evaluation report(WorldBank 1998)acknowledgedthis component`s success in
improvingutilizationof health facilities, but also notedthat the projectdid notfully achieve its objectivesto
expand infrastructureand to develop sustainableinstitutionalcapacity.
17. World Bank Report No. IDP-122,"Population, Healthand NutritionSector Report," December 1992.
18. Itcalledfor actionto slow down populationgrowth through: (a) the establishmentof a government
coordinatingbodyfor populationpolicydevelopment and the creationof a populationunitfor program
development and coordination; (b) the development of a nationalfamily planningstrategy and action planto
increaseaccess to family planningservices, with an emphasis on childspacing;and (c) intensified
information,educationand communication (IEC) by promoting a multi-mediaapproachand involving NGOs.
19. This report notedthat the scale and urgency of HIV/AIDSwere growing rapidlyand were possibly
grossly underestimated.At that time the ratesof infectionof HIV, accordingto sentinel site data, were 1.6%
in Moundou, 0.5% in Sarh and 0.2% in N'djamena. Low awareness,inadequateskills of health personnel
and shortageof resources and logisticalsupport all were cited as importantimpedimentsto program
effectiveness.
20. Credit2626-CD in the amount of SDR 31.Imillion (US$18.5 millionequivalent),providedsupportto
three componentsaimed at: (a) strengthening central MoPHcapapcityto support regional healthservices:
(b) improvinghealth, nutritionandfamily planningservices in Guera and Tandjile regions;and (c) developing
and implementinga nationaldrug policy. 2/24/95, closing 6/30/01.

                                                    6


 concept at the time o fits appraisal," andthere was incentiveboth not to delay the health
 operation and not to compromise on the quality o f the populationcomponent. Second, it
 was considered critical to address the spread o fHIV/AIDS, which was recognizedas a
 threat to Chad's economic and social development prospects.22The rationale for
 combiningpopulationandAIDS efforts under one operation was to exploit synergies o f
 efforts inthe provision o f family planning andHIV/AIDS services and information for
 behavior change, and inthe social marketingo f commodities. Third, a combined health
 andpopulationproject was thought to be too complex for the limitedmanagement
 capacity o f MoPH. Given the multi-sectoralapproach o fpopulation andHIV/AIDS, the
 management o fthis project was placedunder the auspices o fthe MoPC.

  1.15    Support by Other Donors to populationandAIDS inthe early 1990s fell short
 o fneeds. Populationsupport was providedprimarilyby UNFPA (US$3.5 million for the
 population census, policy formulation, and family planningprogrammanagement) and
 USAID (USS8.5 million for maternal and child health andfamily planning [MCHDP]
 service delivery intwo regions, andprovision o f contraceptives). Other support to
 M C H F P was providedby donors inthe context o fbasic health services support23.A
 major gap inthe financing o fcontraceptives was imminent with the plannedwithdrawal
 o fUSAIDfrom Chad in 1995. Donorsprovided about US$4.3 millionto support
 implementationo f Chad's first short-term (1988-89) andmedium-term (1990-93)
 HIVIAIDS plans. WHO'SGlobal Programme on AIDS (GPA) was the main source o f
 financial and technical assistance, with support also beingprovidedbyUNDP, USAID,
 France andthe EuropeanUnion(World Bank 1995).




21. Slow progressin the preparationof the populationcomponent is largelyattributableto the weak capacity
of the demographic unitwithin MoPC.
22. Buildingon the analysisof the Population,Health and Nutrition Report(World Bank 1992),the Regional
AIDS Strategyfor the Sahel (World Bank January 1995)providedupdates on the progressionof the
HIV/AIDS epidemicin Chad and guidancefor Bank support, most notably: strengtheningand expansionof
communication; expanding clinical management, epidemiologicalsurveillanceand laboratorycapacity;
support for NGO and community initiatives:supportfor multisectoralinterventions;and policy analysis,
research, monitoringand evaluation.
23. WHO, UNICEF,Swiss Tropical Institute,EuropeanUnion, France, Switzerland. In addition,the
InternationalPlanned ParenthoodFederation(IPPF) provided supportto its local affiliate in Chad, the
Association for FamilyWell-being (ASTBEF).

                                                 7


 2.       Objectives and Design

 2.1      The Populationand AIDS ControlProject was financed through an IDA credit o f
 US$20.4 million equivalentz4,approved on March 23, 1995, and a plannedgovernment
 contributiono f US$1.3 million. Inaddition, cofinancingbyKfW andUNFPA inthe
 respective amounts o fUS$4.4 million andUS$O.l million, brought the total estimated
 project cost to US$27.2million. This first free-standing population and AIDS project in
 Chad became effective on September 8, 1995.

 2.2      ObjectivesandComponents.The projectwas designed to assist the Government
 inimplementingits long-term strategy inpopulationandfamily planningandits medium-
 term plan 1995-99 (MPT 2) for AIDS control. Its overall objectives were to advance the
 onset o f fertility decline by increasing the use o f modernmethods o f contraception (from
 1percent in 1990to 10percent by2000), andslow the spreado fHIV infectionby
promotingbehavioral change. Project assistancewas channeled through four components
aimed at: (a) strengthening o fnational capacity to implement the populationpolicy; (b)
strengthening o fnational capacity to contain the spread o f HIV/AIDS/STDs; (c)
establishment o f a social marketingprogram for condoms; and (d) promoting the
participationo f the nongovernmental sector inpopulation, family planning, and
HIV/AIDS/STD programs. See Annex C for a presentation o f project components.

2.3      ImplementationArrangements.The MoPCwas responsible for overallproject
coordination, management and oversight. To this end a project coordination team (PCT)
was established andplacedunder the direct supervision o fthe General Directorate o fthe
MoPC. The PCT was responsible for the day-to-day coordination ofproject activities,
administrative and financial matters, and for the coordination o fmonitoring and
evaluation. Itwas also responsible for maintaining an effective dialoguewith key donors
and agencies inthe population andhealth sectors. The PCT consisted o fa project
coordinator appointed by Government, local contractual staff (including aproject
administrator, anaccountant, the FOSAPadministrator, and support staff), and a long-
term international specialist inepidemiology andprogram management. Inaddition to the
cost o fthese staff, the project financed short-term technical assistance inprocurement,
accounting and audits, training, logistical support, and operational costs.

2.4      The management ofproject activities was assigned to institutional structures with
respect to their traditional mandates. The populationpolicy component was to be
managedby the Division o fPopulationat the MoPC; andthe HIVlAIDS component was
assigned to the PNLS within the MoPH. Management and implementation arrangements
for the social marketing and social fund components are presented below.

2.5      Social Marketing. Responsibility for the management and implementation o fthe
social marketingcomponent was givento ASTBEF and (initially to) an internationalfirm
specialized insocial marketing, together underthe general supervisiono fMoPC and in
collaborationwith the PNLS/MoPH (for technical aspects). Transfer o f skills was the
main objective o ft h s technical assistance, which was to beprovided on apermanent

24. All US$amounts representthe US$equivalentof SDRs or other currencies.

                                                     8


 basis duringthe first three years o fthe project, andthrough short-term assistancefor the
 remainingtwo years o fthe project. The Government, World Bank, and KfW signed an
 agreement to support this program. KfW was to finance the first three years o f the
 program and IDA the remaining two years; they sharedthe expenses o f an auditor.

 2.6      Social Fund. The PCT was given responsibility for management o fthe social
 fund, with a social fund administrator includedamong its core staff. Fundswere to be
 made available for subprojects prepared and implementedby: (a) NGOs and civil society
 organizations; (b) selected sector ministries (health, education, defense, justice, social
 affairs, communications, and interior); and (c) decentralized, multisectoral entities
responsible for populationand HIV/AIDS.'' The social fundwas designed to finance 80
percent o fthe subproject costs, the remaining20 percent to beprovided as counterpart
 from the implementing organizations.26A procedures manual and contract prototypes
were developed and agreedbythe borrower and IDA, providing for IDA review of
contracts larger than CFAF 30 million (about US$60,000) before signature. Under the
"resource projects" experienced NGOswere given a geographical zone to operate in,
withinwhich they would (a) provide capacity-building support to local associations that
would preparelimplement subprojects; and (b) stimulate the development o fnew
associations and additional subprojects to further strengthen civil society. The role o f
these experienced NGOs was limitedto technical assistance and capacity building; they
neither signed contracts with the implementingagencies nor disbursed funds, these tasks
beingthe responsibilityo fthe social fund.

2.7      MonitoringandEvaluationo fproject performance was the responsibilityo fthe
implementingunits, inline with indicators specified innational policies and strategic
documents onpopulationandHIV/AIDS, under the overallcoordination o f the PCT.
Baselines didnot exist for most HIV/AIDS indicators andmanytargets were not quantified
before effectiveness. Research, studies andother data collectionactivities were expected to
refine and complete baseline data andtargets.27There was no monitoring and evaluation
planother thanthe expectationthat indicatorswouldbereviewedasrequired bythe second
medium-term planreview process (not defined). Standard Bankreportingrequirements on
implementation included: (a) semi-annual progress reports to IDA; (b) annualjoint
(IDA/Government) reviews; and(c) a mid-termreview.




25. RegionalCommissionsfor Population and Human Resources,created in 1994;and PrefectoralHealth
Councils,created inthe late 1980s.
26. Duringnegotiationsthe Government gave assurancesthat it would maintainin the budgetof the
ministriesinvolvedinAIDS control a separatebudgetaryitemfor AIDS activitiesto meettheir counterpart
obligations.
27. While it providedcriticalinformationon both populationand HIVIAIDS,the 1996 DHS did not provide
neededdata on many of the projecttargets and indicators.

                                                        9


 3.        Implementationand Costs

 ImplementationExperience

 3.1       After an initial three-month delay ineffectiveness,28the project was implemented
 over six years and three months (including a six-month extension*') and closed on
 December 31,2001, with the credit fully disbursed.

 3.2       CounterpartFinancing.At the start oftheproject Government made its
 counterpart funds available, although frequently later thanthe agreedschedule. However,
 Government's failure to budget the 20 percent counterpart funding for key sectoral
 ministries in 1998 causedtheir activities to come to ahalt3' Chronic unavailability o f
 counterpart financing duringthe secondhalfo fthe project life causedthe working
 relationship and trust between the project andits suppliersto deteriorate seriously, because
 the latter werebeingpaidonly 80percent oftheir invoices (the Bank's share). Support
 staffwere only receiving 80 percent o ftheir salaries andtelephone andelectricity were cut.
 The Bankwaspersistent inraisingthis issue with Ministers o fFinance and o fPlan,
 Development and Cooperation, but this issue was not resolved prior to the project's
 closing.

 3.3      Population.The two major studies startedwith some delays but were eventually
 completed. The Demographic andHealth Survey was delayed by elections andthe initial
 unavailabilityo f logistics to support field work. The Migration andUrbanization Survey
 was delayed because UNFPA was unable to provide all o fthe fbnds it had initially
 committed and CERPODrestructuringcaused a disruption inits technical support. IDA
 agreedto finance the gap andcost overruns given the importance o fthis study.

 3.4      Lack o f government commitment and heavybureaucratic processes causedmajor
 delays inkeyproject activities. The Government decree creatingthree key population
 entities -- the HCPRH, CiVPRHand C P P W -- was signed on November 23,1995, and
the legal texts definingthe composition andoperations o f these entities were signed on
April 10, 1996. The preparation andapproval o fthe Programfor Priority Actions and

~           ~




28. Projecteffectivenessslippedfrom July to September 1995 because of extra time taken for the Conseil
Superieurde la Transitionto ratifythe credit.
29. The projectwas extendedto bridge a financinggap pending the delayed start of the follow-onproject.
30. The 1999approved budgetdid providefor this counterpartfunding, thus permitting implementationof
sectoralactivitiesthat year.
31. The Bank's internalsupervisionreportingdowngraded its ratingof counterpartfunding from
"unsatisfactory" to "highly unsatisfactory"duringthe latter years of implementation.
32. HCPRH (Haut Conseilde la Populationet des RessourcesHumaines)is the High Councilon Population
and Human Resources,chaired by the Headof State, with membershipcomprisedof Ministers, responsible
for setting and enforcingpopulationpolicy. CNPRH (CommissionNationalede la Populationet des
Ressources Humaines) is the NationalCommission on Populationand Human Resources),chaired by the
MoPCwith membership comprisedof representativesof public sector and civil society, responsiblefor
coordinationand oversightof policy implementation.CRPRH (CommissionRegionalede la Populationet
des Ressources Humaines) isthe RegionalCommission on Populationand Human Resources,chairedby
the Governor, with membershipcomprisedof regionalrepresentativesof the publicsector and civil society,
responsiblefor regional-levelpolicyimplementation.

                                                    10


 Investments (Programmed'Actionet d'InvestissementsPrioritaire, PAIP), which was the
 framework for populationpolicy implementation, was delayed as a consequence. It was
 transmitted to the HCPRHfor its review and approval on January 23, 1998,nearly three
 years later thanplanned. Furthermore, the HCPRHmet for the first and only time on
 November 17,2000 to approve the PAIP almost three years after it was received. A draft
 decree was prepared in 1998 proposingthat the HCPRHbe chairedby the Prime
 Minister, rather than the Heado f State, to make it more operational, but the decree was
 never signed. Ina meeting o f September 7,2001,the CNPRHinsisted that the President
 continue to chair the HCPRH.

 3.5      Six seminars for journalists, NGOs, opinion leaders, and leaders o fwomen's
 organizations were carriedout as planned. Some 140unionleaders (against 100planned)
 were trained inpopulationinformationworkshops and the majority o fprefects and
 subprefects were trained inpopulation, as planned. The messageso fthese seminars and
 training sessionswere tailored to the specific target groups, but by and large included
 dissemination o f the Declarationo fPopulationPolicy andthe social and economic
 consequences o frapidpopulation growth and highfertility for the country at large, the
 local level, the family, as well as individuals. Themes discussed included: poverty,
 allocation o f scarce resources, the status androle o fwomen indevelopment, andmaternal
 and child health and the benefits o f child spacing.

3.6      W h l e the PopulationUnitwas given a higher profile inMoPC -promoted first to
the level o f a division and subsequentlyto the level o f a full directorate -the number o f
populationprofessionals was diminishing due to death and attrition.33Some o f them were
replacedwith contractual staff and others not at all. Capacity-building efforts were also
undermined by the reorganization o f CERPOD in2000, with whom the Division of
Populationhad signed a contract for technical assistance and capacity building. With
manystaffleavingCERPODafter thereorganization, the quality andquantityo fsupport
fell short o f levels providedinthe initial years o f the project.

3.7      HIVIAIDS.Implementationofthis component was constrainedbyweak capacity
within the PNLSinthe MoPHthroughout the life o ftheproject. Attemptsto strengthen
PNLSwere made inthe early years ofthe project with the appointment ofa new
coordinator and a few other qualified staff However, inadequacies innumbers and skills
o f staffhave persisted. Difficulties ineliminating shortages o f qualified personnel were
due both to paucity o f available qualified staff andto the reluctance o f decision-makers to
dismissweak, non-performing staff.

3.8      There were tensions betweenthe PNLS coordinator and the long-term technical
assistant, hired to buildPNLS capacity inepidemiology andprogrammanagement. One
source o ftension was the extent to which the technical assistant was perceivedto have
substituted for PNLS skills gaps instead o f developing the capacity o fPNLS. Interviews
revealed many strong and divergent opinions, some expressing that the technical-assistant


33. Five demographershave died sincethe start of the project, includingone who was trained overseas
under the project. A numberof other staff trainedunderthe projectwere hired by multilateralagencies (e.g.,
UNDP and UNICEF).

                                                       11


  encroached on the responsibilities o fthe PNLS coordinator, while others notingthat
 management andtechnical skills were so scarce and demands so great onPNLSthat there
 was no other alternative andthat support at the technical level was appreciated.
 Additionally, the terms o freference o f this technical assistant included significant,
 additional responsibilities that extendedbeyondthe support to PNLS:technical assistance
 andguidance to the PCT inproject management andinthe set-up, launch and oversight
 of the social fund. These resp~nsibilities,~~        combined with the fact that his office was
 located with the PCT, reduced his availability to the PNLS.A final evaluationo f this
 technical assistance was not undertakenby the Borrower.

 3.9       Despite these constraints, most planned activities were implemented. Progressively,
 A I D S planswere developed and implemented at the prefecture levelby prefectoral health
 councils. Byproject close, prevention activities were beingundertaken inall 14
 prefectures, as planned.Two hundredeighty three healthpersonnel (against 300 planned)
 were givenHN/STD-related training. The project providedtechnical and financial support
 to five existingsentinel surveillance sites already existing at the project's outset and
 established four additional sentinel sites (versus two planned) bringingthe total o f hlly
 functional sites to nine (versus seven~lanned).~'FiveHlVsero-prevalence studies focusing
 on specific groups were carried out as planned;36andtwo population-based HIV sero-
 prevalence studies were carried out in 199737(versus none planned). Inaddition, three KAP
 studieswere carried out (versus two planned); and aplanned study on the socio-economic
 impact o fHIV/AIDS was also carried out. However, ofthe five plannedoperational studies
 to improve health servicesquality, only one was carried

 3.10      Social Marketing. At the project design stage KfW cofinancing was slated to
 cover the costs o fthe first three years ofimplementation o fthis component (including the
 cost o f condoms), and IDA the remaining two. However, duringimplementationKfW
 decided to extend its support, includingthe social marketingtechnical assistance, through
 2001 (the end of the pr~ject).~'

 3.11 Despite initial delays instart-up activities, implementation o fthis component was
highlysuccessful. Earlier activities focused onthe setting up o fMASACOT (the project
social marketingunit),promotional activities, professional training, and networking.

34. It is interestingto note that this projectwas designedduring a time when the Bank sought to reduce
long-termtechnicalassistancefinanced underprojects,given client countries'expressed resistanceto the
highcost of such assistanceas well as to the idea of borrowingfor this purpose. Projectfiles do provide
evidenceof the needto stronglyjustiQ the inclusionof technicalassistance.Some interviewedindicated
that, in retrospect, the TOR for this assistancewere too broad and ambitiousfor one personto fulfill.
35. A 10thsite in Faya-Largeau was establishedwith projectsupport, but its operationswere limitedto
notificationof AIDS cases and not HIV surveillanceat the end of the project.
36. Sero-prevalencestudiesfocusedon: prostitutesand militaryin Ndjamena(1995), militaryin N'djamena
(1997), militaryin Moundou (1997), prostitutesin Sarh (1997), migrantsin Logone Occidental (1997).
37. Inthe prefectures of Abeche and Amtiman.
38. Study completed was on the managementof STDs and AIDS patients. Plannedstudies not carriedout
focused on: referralprotocolsfor AIDS patientsand families: evaluationof the clinicaldefinitionof AIDS;
relationshipof HIV and TB; and accessibilityand utilizationof healthcenters and district hospitals.
39. KfW'stechnicalandfinancial continuestoday inthe contextof the follow-onproject.

                                                12


 Condom sales soon exceededproject targets and increased duringthe first years o f the
 project untilthe year 2000. Inthat year it was decided to replace the technical assistant
 for this component, who was not considered bythe Bank, KfW, or the borrower to be
 fulfillingcapacity buildingresponsibilities specified inthe terms o freference. The time
 anddisruption ofreplacingthis expert hadanegative effect oncondom sales. Also, at the
 end o f 1999the Government and its partners decided to transform MASACOT, which
 had a temporary (or project) legal status, into a permanent NGO, the Association for
 Social Marketing o f Chad (I'Associationpour le Marketing Social au Tchad,AMASOT).
 Time and effort were thus spent onthe preparation anddiscussion o fdraft legaltexts.
 The first General Assembly for this new entity met on October 17,2001. AMASOT was
 formally recognized bythe Ministryo f Interior and Security inJanuary 2002 andthe
 following month regional branches o fAMASOT were established inAbkch6, Mongo,
 Moundou, N'Djamena, Pala, and Sarh. The dip inthe sale o f condoms was only
 temporary and continued to climb thereafter.

 3.12    Around the time ofthe M T R itwas decided to diversifj social marketingefforts to
 include oral rehydrationsalts for home treatment o fdiarrhea anddehydration. The rationale
 for this decision was to contribute to reductions inchildmortality, which is recognized to
bea strong determinant o ffertility. The financingofthis initiativeunder the project was
madepossible after KfW financing of socially marketedcondoms was extended to the end
o fthe project, thus liberatingIDA funds for this newcommodity. The first packets were
ordered andmarketed in2000 with great success and increasing sales over time.

3.13     Social Fund. This component was slow to start becauseo t (a) the weakness o f
civil society organizations; (b) Government mistrust o f civil society organizations inthe
wake o f civil conflicts; and (c) a general lack o f informationand discomfort about
population issues and HIVlAIDSacross civil society. The preparationand approval o f a
social fund procedures manual havingbeen a condition o f effectiveness, the first two
years o f activity were devoted primarilyto informationand outreach with potential
partners (NGOs, associations, key sector ministries) to informthem o fthe availability o f
h d s and the projectpreparation andapproval cycle.

3.14     Early efforts also focused, as planned, onthe recruitment o f experienced NGOs to
carry out capacity buildingandoutreach with civil society groups to guide them in
subproject preparation and implementation, incite the development o fnew subprojects
andcontribute to the strengthening ofpublic-private partnershipsat decentralized levels.
The social fundfinanced six NGOsto carry out these technical support capacity-building
initiatives, two more thanplanned.

3.15     Inresponseto acall duringthe MTRfor microfinance for women as ameans of
fightingHIV/AIDS andaddressing determinants o freproductivebehavior andfamily
well-being, the Development Credit Agreement was amended and funds reallocated to
support this initiative. Duringthe secondhalfo fthe project this new subcomponent

                                                     13


 providedUS$800,000 to 12 field-based agencie~,~'which providedmicrocredit to
 women's groupsthroughout the country.

 3.16     Despite successes inexceeding implementationtargets, lack of FOSAP capacity
 inmicrofinance causedadifferentiationinthe quality andappropriateness ofapproaches
 andresults across the 12field-based agencies. Implementationo fthe populationand
 HIV/AIDSsubprojects was constrainedbothby slow disbursements (caused inpartby
 failure to replenishthe Special Account due to delays instatements o f expenses
 submission) andby the fact that someNGOsresponsible for capacity buildingand
 outreach had a growing clientele that was exceeding their budgets and staff capacity.

 3.17     FOSAP carried out independent evaluations and audits o f all subprojects. Many o f
 the local associations interviewed duringfield visits notedthat FOSAP andPCT staff and
 senior NGOs (underthe capacity buildingprojects) provided critical technical guidance
 andsupport.

 3.18     Originally FOSAP was conceived as an organ o f the project with no life
 anticipated after the project's closing. However, it was later acknowledged that an
 important dynamic hadbeen initiatedthat should continue beyondthe project's closing.
 In1998, the legalstatusofFOSAPwas revisedto giveitapermanent legalstatus. As
 such, its management was detached from the project and given full autonomy. Two
 management committees, eachmade up ofpublic sector and civil society representatives,
 oversee, respectively, the subproject grant andmicrofinance components. Since FOSAP
 achieved this autonomy, co-signature of projects by PCT was no longernecessary; and
 FOSAP acquired its own Special Account, which greatly facilitated disbursements.

 PlannedVersusActual Costs andFinancing

 3.19     The total project cost was US$26.1 million equivalent, or 96 percent o fthe cost
 estimated at appraisal (US$27.2 million, see Annex D). While the IDA credit o f 13.9
million SDR was fully disbursed, its dollar value decreasedover the life of the project
from US$20.4 millionto US$18.7 million at closing (see Annex D). KfW financing was
greater thaninitially plannedbecause o fits decisionto extend its support o fthe social
marketing component. Government counterpart financing fell short o f its commitments
and the actual contribution bycivil society (under the social fund) was inline with
appraisal estimates.

3.20      Annex Dpresentsplannedversus actual disbursements. While grants under the
social fund were initially estimated at 2.70 million SDR or 19percent ofthe total credit
amount, actual disbursements under the social fund amounted to 3.55 million SDR or 25
percent ofthe total credit. An additional 5 percent o f the credit (0.8 million SDR) was
disbursed to support microcredit for women.



40. Many of these agencies were NGOsthat did not necessarilyhave microfinanceexperience,as this was
very rareon the ground. They were chosenfor their overall experienceinworkingwith communitiesand for
their managementand organizationalskills.The operationalmanualwas a means of guidingthese agencies
in carrying out microfinanceactivitiesand in developingmicrofinancecapacityin the country.

                                                 14


 4.       Outputsand OutcomesbyObjective

 4.1      Annex Eprovides an overview o fkey targets andindicators for population and
 HIV/AIDS supported under the project. It shows that for most o f these indicators baseline
 data were not established, targets were not quantified, data as o fthe end o f the project
 were not compiled. This beingsaid, progress against a few ofthese indicatorshas been
 measured. In addition, the project supported the generation o fuseful demographic, social,
 epidemiologicalandbehavioraldata that provide additional indication o f the outcomes o f
 this investment. This chapter highlightsthe major achievements ofthe project andthe
 outcome for eachpopulationand HN/AIDS.

 Population

 4.2     The capacity of theDivision of Population was strengthened with overseas
 training, study tours, and on-the-job technical assistance, but this Department remains
 understaffed relative to the scope of its mandate. Technical training was providedin
 demography, the use o f demographic data indevelopment planning andthe
 implementation, management, andmonitoringand evaluation o f the population policy
 andprogram. However, the amount o fdemographic training (both innumbers o fpeople
trained and lengtho ftraining) was inadequate for the needs (Wakam 2001). The
 effectiveness o ftraining delivered was not evaluated. Participationat the 1994 Cairo
Conference on Population and study tours to BurkinaFaso, Mali, Senegal, and Tunisia
increased the exposure o f staff to intemational goodpractices. Training was also
providedto over 60 public sector officials inthe use o f demographic data indevelopment
planningbyall ministries, bututilizationofdemographic datahasremainedweak
(Wakam 2001).

4.3      Theproject wasgenerally successful in raising community awareness and
disseminating thepopulation policy, but attitudes are slow to change. At the MTRand
again at the close o fthe project it was acknowledged that it takes considerable time to
change attitudes. Nevertheless, duringits field visits the mission was told about and also
observed evolutioninknowledge and attitudes across a wide range o f groups.41For
example, religious leaders (Muslimand Christian) are involved members o f local-level
population commissions and are highlycommitted to populationpolicy objectives that
aim to improve mother and child healthandwellbeing and girls'schooling. National and
international informants noted that some (initially resistant) imams are now sufficiently
convinced about the benefits o fbirthspacing that they are promoting this practice inrural
populations. This being said, there i s still ambivalence andeven resistance to the idea o f
limitingfamily size, whereas other components o fthe populationpolicy (child spacingto
promote ofmatemal and child health, improvement o f women's status, and expansion o f
women's economic opportunities) are more widely supported. m l e the coverage targets
o fpopulationIEC were essentially met, the efficiency o f efforts was compromisedby the




41. Opinion and religiousleaders,women, NGOs,journalists, youth, unionworkers and localleaders.

                                                   15


 delay inthe creationo f a technical coordinationcommittee for IEC4*andthe failure of
 this committee to meet regularly.

 4.4      Theproject was successful in generating relevant socio-demographicdata and
 information in Chad, but it is notfully exploited. The three mainresearch outputs o fthe
 project were: (a) the first Demographic andHealth Survey (1996197); (b) a study on
 migration and urbanization; and (c) the preparation o f 15 monographs that provide for
 eachprefecture regional-leveldata drawn from the 1993 census, five in-depth analyses o f
 census data, and seven regional-levelanalyses ofDHS data. The extent to which this data
 i s used indevelopment planning and evaluation has beenreviewed andjudged to be very
 weak (Wakam2001). Inaddition, delays inthe publicationo fcompleted studies
 undermine efforts to disseminate anduse them. A case inpoint was the migration and
 urbanizationstudy, which was publishedthree years after its completion.

 4.5      Theproject strengthenedMCWfamily well-being services at all levels of the
public health system, most notably through the supply of contraceptivesfor these
 services throughout the life of theproject. As a complement to the ongoingHealthand
 Safe MotherhoodProject, which sought to strengthen basic health services, the project
 averted a major gap incontraceptive supplies when USAIDwithdrew support to Chad in
 1995. USAIDhadbeenthe main supplier o f contraceptives inChad; inthe absence o f
project support, there would likely have beena severe shortage o f contraceptives inthe
 country. Close coordinationbetween these two projects, includingjoint supervision,
 ensured a coherence inthe provision o f inputs for M C H and family well-being. Other
 supports to M C H and family well-being included: (a) subprojects supported bythe social
fundto improveM C Handfamily well-being; (b) the productionofcriticalbaseline data
on M C Hand family well-being (DHS 1996197); and (c) the improved availability and
affordability o f oral rehydrationtherapy throughout the country.

4.6      Thesocialfund was successful in mobilizing andfinancing a responsefrom
civil society organizations in addressingpopulation issues and in inciting and
supporting an integratedpublic sector responseat decentralized levels of the
administration. Forty-five population subprojects (against 20 planned) were carried out.
Ofthese, 30 were executedby local associations supporting a variety o f activities
(maternal and child healthand family well-being, promotiono fwomen and youth, and
studies), and 15 integrated projects (addressing direct andindirect determinants of
population andreproductivehealth) were implementedby the 15 CRPRH.

4.7     Evaluations o f subprojects commissioned by the social fund focused more on
implementationrates than onresults. However, field discussions highlighted results
reported by implementers andbeneficiaries, including an increase inthe use o fprenatal
services, improved economic opportunities for youth, increased enrollment o f girls in
school, increases inexclusive breastfeeding, and a reduction insevere cases o f
malnutritionamong children.




42. Createdin September 1997, almost two years afterthe initialtarget date.

                                                        16


 4.8       Theprovision of microfinancefor poor women achievedpositive changes in
 important, inter-related determinantsof fertility: (a) increased incomegeneration and
 economic opportunitiesfor women; (b) increased investmentsin the health, nutrition
 and education of their children; (c) improved social and economic status of women;
 and (d) improved information on reproductivehealth andfamily health. These
 achievements, relative to the counterfactual o f no support, are documentedboth inthe
 final evaluation o fthe microfinance component (Miller2001) andindiscussions with
 about 50 beneficiaries o f this support the cities o fMao, Bongor, Moundou andMongo.
 Informed questions posedby these women about the relative safety andrisks o f different
 methods o fcontraception provided an indication o ftheir basic knowledge and
 internalizationo fmessages about reproductive health and family planningchoices.
 However, as i s documented later inthis chapter, these achievements have not yet
 translated into increases inthe CPR.

 4.9       Theintroduction of oral rehydrationpackets into the social marketingportfolio
 of AMASOT tofight diarrhea in children underfive addressedyet another critical
 determinant of fertility -that of high child mortality. Sales thus far have exceeded
 initial expectations due to a very highdemand for this product. The potentialimpact o f
 this activityon childmortalityis significant, but ithasnot yet beenevaluated.

 4.10      Project                   Figure 2. Use of contraception among married women and
 assistance did not                  those in consensualunion, 1996 and 2000
 succeed in increasing
 the modern                                 9

 contraceptive                              8

prevalence rate (CPR)                       7

                                            6
from an estimated 1                         5
percent in 1990 to the                  ae  4
target of 10 percent by                     3

2000.43As illustratedin                    :
                                      I     2

Figure 2, Chad achieved               1
a modem CPR                                             Any method            Modern method

prevalence rate o f 2.0
percent in2000 (UNICEF               Note:The differences between 1996and 2000, are statisticallysignificant
2001), a statistically              at p~ .05.
                                    Source: DHS 1996197and UNICEF Multiple IndicatorSurvey 2001; Reproduced
significant increase over           from Country Status Report (World Bank 2004).
the 1996 level o f 1.2percent (DHS 1996/97),but, nevertheless, considerably lower than
the target. The figure also shows that the CPR for modemandtraditionalcontraception
combined increased fiom 4.2 percent to 7.9 percent over the same period. Table 3 in
Annex Dshows a breakdownincontraceptive use by level o f education andplace of
residence in2000. The modem CPR i s significantly higher amongwomen with
secondary school education (12.3 percent) as opposed to those with primary education


43. While it was acknowledgedat the MTRthat the program's (and project's) originalobjectives and targets
were, in retrospect,unrealisticand would not be met,there was no formal revisionof objectives. UNFPA
was working on revisingthe objectives,buttheir consultantsare reportedto haveworked very slowly and
realistic data were availableonly for the 2nd project.

                                                          17


 (2.8 percent) or some education (1.4 percent); and modem CPR i s also higher among
 women livinginurbanareas (6.6 percent), especially inN'Djamena (9.0 percent), as
 opposed to their m a l counterparts (0.8 percent).

 4.11 Available data indicatethat the total fertility rate (TFR) inChadhas remained
 constant over the life o fthe project. The DHS revealed a TFR o f 6.6 children in 1996/97;
 recent analytic work suggests this same rate for 2000 (CSR 2004).

 4.12     The population strategy also aimed, through an anticipated increase inthe CPR, to
 reducethe annual rate o fpopulationgrowth from 2.4 percent in 1990to 2 percent by 1999.
 According to the most recent Government estimates, the actual rate o fpopulationgrowthi s
 about 3.1 percent.44

 4.13     Itis important to note that at the time ofthe MTR(1997), whenthe results ofthe
 first-ever DHS inChad became available, it was acknowledged bythe Bank andthe
 borrower that the objectives o f increasingthe use o fmoderncontraceptives anddecreasing
 fertility andthe populationgrowthratewere, inretrospect, not realistic andwould not be
 achieved. They expressedthe intentiono f setting new targets on the basis ofthe DHS data.
 UNFPAhiredconsultants to this end, but the work o fthese consultants progressed slowly;
 andthe Development Credit Agreement was not formally amendedto set morerealistic
 objectives against which the projectwouldbemeasured.

 HIVIAIDS

 4.14     Epidemiological and behavioral surveillancewas improved under theproject and
 documentedthe seriousness and scope of the epidemic. The project supported the
 strengthening and functioning ofthe epidemiological surveillance system for HIV,
comprised o fnine fully functional sentinel                     bythe endo fthe project (versus seven
planned), two o fwhich were set upwithproject assistance (see list inAnnex D).This
systemcollects andreports annual dataonHIVprevalence amongpregnantwomenusing
prenatal services, blooddonors, STD patients, andTB patients.46Sentinel sites also monitor
andreport onprevalence ofsyphilis amongwomen usingprenatal services. Techmcal
supervision and support o f sentinel sites was somewhat constrained by staff t~mover,~'
but compensated inpartbythe support ofthe long-term technical assistants4*


44. Source: Directorateof Coordinationof Population-RelatedActivities, Ministryof Planning, Development
and Cooperation (MPDC), 2004 data.
45. At the time of the project`s closing, a tenth site (Faya) is only reportingAIDS cases (and not HIV
prevalence)for the moment.
46. At the time of the mission's visit, four annual statistical reportshad been produced, providinga series of
data for the years 1999,2000, 2001, and2002. While the projectfinanced training and other support to the
functioningof the surveillancesites, the quality and completenessof the data are still in need of
improvement.
47. PNLSstaff personresponsiblefor epidemiologicalsurveillanceat the project`soutset receivedtraining in
epidemiology,but was transferredto another postupon his returnto Chad. Hewas replacedby a non-
specialistwho receivednotechnicaltraining in epidemiology.
48. The long-terminternationaltechnical assistant, who is an epidemiologist,did not providefull-time
supportto this effort, becausehis terms of referencewere very broad. Inadditionto epidemiological

                                                     18


  4.15     HIVprevalenceandbehavioralstudieshavesupportedthe documentation of
  trends, issues, and consequenceso f the epidemic andthe development o f strategies on
  how best to fight it. HIV seroprevalence studies indifferent geographical regions, some
  focusing onthe general populationothers focusing on specific high-riskgroups, have
 permittedinsome cases an assessment o ftrends inthe epidemic (see Annex D). Sentinel
  sites and studies data were often cited byregional authorities and actors andmaywell be
 motivatinglocalcommitment and, to a lesser extent, the design andtargeting o f activities.
 Also contributing to improvedknowledge and insightwere: knowledge, attitude and
 practice (KAP) surveys and sociological studies on high-risk groups (such as prostitutes)
 anda studyto assessthe economic and social impacto fthe epidemic.

 4.16      The IECUnitwithinPNLSproducedmaterials andcarried out campaigns to
 inform the general population andtarget groups and enhancetheir ability to protect
 themselves. These efforts were complemented bythe numerous andwidespread IEC
 efforts carried out by other nationalpartners (such as the Ministryo f Communication, the
 IEC division o fMoPH, andpublic andnon-public actors at the local level) targeting
 many groups across the country. Many actors encountered during field visits
 acknowledged the good quality andutility o f IEC material produced by the IEC unit in
 PNLS.Manyalso calledfor more locally appropriate material inlocal languages, better
 coordinationo f IEC, and moreresearch for adjusting interventions andtarget groups.
 There was consensus among the majority o f informants that evolutionhas occurred inthe
 knowledge and attitudes o f a range o f actors and stakeholders. HIV/AIDS i s no longer
 taboo, but rather recognized for what it is: a threat to the development o f Chad andthe
well-being o fits populationthat requires urgent andpersistent action. While IEC efforts
 do seem to have had some impact, their coordination and efficiency are inneed o f
 improvement.

4.17      Theproject supported the strengthening of thepublic health system's capacity
in: the diagnosis of H I V infection (including equipment of laboratories), thepsycho-
medico-social care of HIV/AIDSpatients, the diagnosis and treatment of opportunistic
infections, and STD syndromic treatment.49The project providedtechnicaltraining and
consumables for laboratories and established a national laboratory referral center for
HIVlAIDS diagnosis. It also financed a CD4 count instrument andthe establishment o f
Enzyme-LinkedImmuno Sorbent Assay (ELISA) chains infive hospitals. Support for
improved STD services includedthe training o f over 2000 service providers andthe
preparation o f STD treatment guidelines. Some training on the use o f anti-retroviral
drugs (ARV) and triple therapy was also provided." No evaluationhasbeen carriedout



technical support, his terms of referencealso includedthe provisionof technicallmanagerialsupportto the
PCT/MoPC in coordinating HIV/AIDS activitiesand to the socialfund entity, FOSAP.
49. The syndromic approachto STD patient management bases diagnosisand treatmenton the presenceof
symptoms, generallywithout resortto confirmatorylaboratorytests. This approach is recommendedby
WHO in developing countrysettings as it allows treatmentwith a single visit and away from a laboratory
setting.
50. The projectdid not financethe purchaseof ARVs. In 1994when the projectwas designedARVs were
very expensiveand notwidely available;and Chad's second medium-termplanfor HIV/AIDSplaced highest
priority on preventionactivities.

                                                      19


 to assess the extent to which these investments culminated inmore andhigher-quality
  services. A number o fthose interviewednotedthat HIV/AIDS and STD patients are still
 not well managed andthat there are still considerable gaps between facility-based and
 community-based care. Datawere not available to check progress against the project
 target o f 12,000 AIDS patients beingtreated bythe healthsystem. The project also
 invested inthe strengthening and expansion o f counseling andtesting services; at the end
 o f the project some 13 centers were functioning (target not specified inproject
 documentation), with more slated to be established.

 4.18     Thesocial                  Figure 3. CondomSales, 1996-2002
 marketingprogram has
 significantly increasedthe
 availability of condoms in                    7

 Chad at an affordable                         6

price. A total o f 19.9                                            4.0
 million condoms were sold
 duringthe lifeoftheproject
 (1996-2001) througha
 network o fover 1,200
 points o f sale throughout
 the country, against the                          1996    1997     1998      1999    2000   2001 2002

 initialtarget o f 14million.                                        Project Implementation
 The annual salestarget set
 for the last year o fthe            Source: AMASOT statistics,2004

project (4.8 millioncondoms) was exceededinthe third full year o fthe project (6.5 million
 in1999). ForreasonsexplainedinChapter 3, annualsales declinedtemporarily in2000,
then steadily increasedover the following two years, achieving 4.0 millionin2002. Figure
 3 shows trends inannual sales over the life o fthe project andduringthe first year after the
close o fthe project (2002). Annex Dshows a further breakdowno fthese sales bymonth
andaveragemonthlysales for eachyear (just under 300,000 condoms).

4.19     The very low price o f less thanUS$0.02 per unit (50 CFA fi-ancs for a packet o f
four) has made condoms widely accessible to the general population. It has also
promptedthe sale o fthese condoms inneighboring countries o f Cameroon and Central
African Republic, where the price o f condoms i s higher. A study o f social marketing
programs inthe three countries estimated that up to 20 percent o fAMASOT condoms
(about 4 millionunits) may have beenresoldinthese countries (Lehmann et al. 2003).
Net o f estimated sales inneighboring countries, the total number o f condoms sold in
Chadover the life o fthe project (15.9 million) still exceeded the project target o f 14
million. InOctober 2003, AMASOTincreased the price o f condoms to 100 CFA




51, In October 2003, AMASOT doubledthe priceof condoms (from 50 to 100CFA francs for a packetof 4)
to discourage their cross-bordersales, still keepingthe priceaffordablefor most Chadians. Sales data in
late2003 and early 2004 reveal a decline in overall sales, attributableby AMASOT both to a reductionin
cross-bordersales andto a temporary declinein in-countrysales becauseof the price increase.

                                                   20


 4.20     While condoms were taboo at the start o f the project, they are now sold openly in
 shops, market stands, inns, andhotels across the country. The Bank evaluation mission
 was told by the majority o f those interviewedthat condoms are usedmore frequently
 duringcasual sexual enco~nters.~~       There are now some 25 billboardswithHIV/AIDS
 messagesprominently displayed inmajor cities. Messages abound as well innewspapers
 and onposters placedinmanypublic venues: workplace, stadium, restaurants, hotels, and
 public transport. Religious institutions and leaderswho were vehemently against condom
 promotion at the project's outset have tempered their opinions andhave a laissez-faire
 demeanor, with some tacitly promotingtheir use as a means o fpreserving family health
 andwell-being. As a consequence, there seems to beconsiderably less stigma associated
 withthe purchase o fcondoms.

 4.21 Thesocialfund has been complementary toAIDS interventions carried out by
 Government. A total o f 97 HIV/AIDS subprojects were prepared and implemented
 throughout the country (against 40 planned), o fwhich 68 by local associations
 (prevention targeted at youth, prostitutes, andpsycho-social-medical care), three by
 regionalIslamic associations (inthree prefectures), 15 integrated projectsunder the
 coordinationo fPrefecture Health Councils, and 11by eight sector ministries.53 The
 impact o f these efforts has not beenevaluated, but the social fimdhas achieved an
 expansion o fnationalcapacity to respond to HIV/AIDS andhas broadened the rangeo f
 actors and scope o f activities.

 4.22    Thesocialfund has nurtured and supported a responsefrom civil society
organizations in addressingHIV/AIDS: Civil society projects covered a range o f
 advocacy, IEC, behavior change interventions, and community-based efforts to provide
care and social support to people livingwith HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). Fielddiscussions
withimplementers andbeneficiaries pointedto improvedawareness andknowledge,
better quality o f life for PLWHA andtheir families, and greater civil society pressure on
public sector leaders to be accountable for addressing HIV/AIDS.

4.23     Thesocialfund has also strengthened the capacity of civil society to conceive
and implement activities in support of HIV/AIDS. Six experienced NGOs carried out
capacity development activities, basedin, andcovering, different geographical zones
across the territory o f Chad. Assistance included subproject design, proposalwriting,
implementation, andmonitoring and evaluation. Thrs approach putneeded technical
assistance and support within immediate access o f a relativelyinexperiencedandweak
civil society. A significant majority o f the numerous local associations interviewed
duringthe evaluation missionconsideredthis assistanceto bepivotal intheir ability to
access funds and implement subprojects successfully. Another outcome o fthe efforts o f
the capacity buildingefforts i s the development o f new local associations, inparticular
associations o fprostitutes and associations o f PLWHA. This is an important
accomplishment, given taboos prevalent at the project's outset and given the great
potential o fthese two groups to contribute to HIV/AIDS preventionefforts. A number o f

52. Unfortunatelyavailabledata is inadequate to document this trend.
53. SocialAction and Family; NationalEducation; Defense; Finance;Justice; Communiation;Health:and
Interior.

                                                    21


 experienced NGOsraised concern about the limits o ftheir ability to provide effective
 support to the increasing numbero f local associations with limitsinfinancial andhuman
 resources defined intheir contracts.

 4.24     Improved capacity ofpoor women to earn income under the microfinance
 component, combined with theprovision of practical information on HIV/AIDS
 decreasedthe vulnerability of women toHIV infection. An evaluation o f this
 subcomponent was undertaken (Miller 2001)s4and corroborates the findings o fthe
 mission, derivedthrough interviewswith microfinance agencies and about 50 women
 beneficiaries infour prefectures. The large majority o fwomen's groups succeeded in
 usingmicrofinanceresources to start or expand economic activities that resultedin
 increased income used for investmentsinfamily well-being. Together, the extra income
 andthe informationonHIV/AIDS were reported to have givenwomen an equal
 partnershipwith their husbands, higher self esteem and dignity, andthe knowledgeto
 protect themselves from HIVinfection. Women benefiting from this assistancereported
 that it protected them informalprostitution for income and equippedthemto reduce
 vulnerabilities o ftheir daughters and other women. Inshort, they expressed a strong
 sense o f economic, socia1andpersonal empowerment.

 4.25     Thesocialfund mobilized andfinanced the involvement of key sector ministries
 in HIV/AIDS efforts. The social fundhas supported HIV/AIDS activities o f eight key
 ministries, who have designated a focal person and, insome cases HIV/AIDS units, to
 addressHIVIAIDS issues, targeted at staff and clients. Among activities supported are:
 HIVlAIDS training and IEC inschools (Ministryo fEducation), social support o f
 PLWHA andtheir families (Ministryo fSocialAction andFamily), medical andsocial
 support o f HIV/AIDS patients (Ministry o f Public Health), training ofjournalists, and
 radio andtelevision media campaigns (Ministry of Communications), sensitization o f
militaryandpreventiono fcontamination inhealthfacilities (MinistryofDefense),
protection o fprisoners (Ministryo fJustice), informationandmobilization o f local
officials andtraditional leaders (Ministry o f Interior). However, the effectiveness o f
these activities has not been evaluated.

4.26     The socialfund launched and supported the decentralization of HIV/AIDS
activitiesin all 14prefectures. Carried out under the auspices o f inter-sectoral
Prefecture HealthCouncils, the effectiveness o fthe subprojects, focusing on a range o f
prevention, care, andmitigation activities, has not beenevaluated. Over and above the
financing o fthese activities at the regional and subregional level, project support
provided a dynamic for local-level, inter-sectoral deliberationand action on HIV/AIDS.




54. This evaluationfocused more on the processand efficiency of the microfinancescheme than on the
impact of this investment. Nevertheless, the methodologydid includeinterviewswith beneficiariesinfive
prefecturesto assess the impactof this investmenton their lives and on the lives of their families. While the
reportprovides usefulinsightson impact, the authors notethat their evaluationof impactwas not sufficiently
systematic or rigorous,and recommend that an in-depthevaluation be undertaken.

                                                      22


 4.27      Awareness and knowledge of     - .          Figure 4. Percent of men andwomen surveyed
 HIUAIDS, among men and women,                         declaring they have heardof AIDS
 both urban and rural, have increased
 during the life of theproje~t.~'         The           1 10O%l       88.1.-I
 most significantimprovements found                        80%

 amongwomen, ruralresidentsandthe                          60%
 poorestincomequintiles (see text                                                                 Women 1
                                                           40%
 Figures4, 5,6, and7; andAnnex D).
 Improvementshavethus reduced                              20%


 importantdisparities inknowledgeand                    I
 awarenessbetweenmenandwomen,                                     1996197        2000      2003


 urbanandruralresidents, andthe                       Source: DHS 1996/97; UNICEF2001; KAP 2003

 poorest andrichest segments ofthe population. Trends inknowledgeofhighrisk groups
 are not




        Figure 5. Percent of men and women who               Figure 6. Percent of men andwomen who
        know condoms are a means of protection               know that fidelity is a means of protection


                                                             100%
        80%
                                                              80%

                                                                                                   j..enl
                                                              BOY0
                                                                                                   ClWomen
                                                              40%

                                                              20%

                                                               0%

                                                                    1996197        2000    2003

                199WS7     2000          2003




                                  Source: DHS 1996/97; UNICEF2001; KAP 2003.




55. Trends on awareness and knowledge presentedin this reportare derivedfrom three nationalstudies: (a)
the 1996/97 Demographic and HealthSurvey; (b) the 2001 UNICEF MultipleIndicator Survey: and (c) a
2003 KAP survey commissioned by Government. All three surveys are national in coverageand based on
the zones definedduring the 1993populationcensus. All three coverwomen in the same (15-49 year) age
group; and the first and third surveys also include men in the same (15-59 year) age group. DHSquestions
relatedto knowledge and awarenesswere open-ended,whereas the UNICEF and KAP survey questions
were prompted. All three surveys coveredboth urbanand rural populationsand properlyweighted the data
to reflectthe urbanlruralpopulationdistribution. Sample size for the DHS included 7,454women and 2,320
men. UNICEF's sample size covered5,865 women; and the KAP samplewas comprisedof 1,148 women
and 1,332 men. Differentquestionswere posedacross the three surveyswith regardto condom utilization,
thus limitingthe possibilityof derivingtrends on behavior.
56. A nationwidestudy of prostitutesin Chad found that 96 percentof prostitutesliving in urban areas and
74 percent in ruralareas were aware of HIVIAIDSand possessedthe knowledgeof sexualtransmission and
howto protectthemselves (Ngoniri2001). No baselinedata on knowledgeof prostituteswas established,
against whichthese levelscan be compared. Prostituteswere a prioritytarget group for HIV awarenessand
prevention of the first medium-termHIV/AIDSplan (1990-1993).

                                                                        23


       Figure 7. Evolution inLevels of Knowledge of Women by Socioeconomic Group,
       1996-2000


                                100   ,

                                                                                        HKnowledgeofAIDS
                                                                                         1996


                                                                                        HKnowledgeofAIDS
                                                                                         2000




                                            Poorest                  RichestQuintile
                                            Quintile



       Source: DHS 1996-97 and Unicef Multiple IndicatorSurvey. Reproducedfrom CountryStatus
       Report (WorldBank2004).


4.28     The proportiono f adults reporting that they have ever used a condoms has risen
over the period 1996-2003,with the most significant increase amongwomen (Figure 8).
While urban-rural and gender differentials are still evident in2003, they have been
reduced since 1996197.

4.29     In2003,6.6 percent ofwomen surveyedreported usingcondoms regularly and
another 6.5 percent o f women reported usingthem occasionally. higher than in 1996/97,
when 0.7 percent o fwomenhavingknowledgeo fAIDS andhaving sexual relations
withinthe last 12monthsreported usinga condom intheir most recent sexual encounter

Figure 8. Ever-Use of Condoms (percent),
1996 and 2003                                                               (DHS 1997).Menalso reportedhigher
                                                                            levels o f condom use thanwomen in2003
                                                                            than in 1996/97:8.7 percent reported
                                                                            regular use and9.1 percent reported
                                                                            occasional use in2003, up fiom 2.2
                                                                            'percent o fmenknowing about AIDS and
                                                                            having sexual relations within the past 12
                                                                            months reportedusing a condom intheir
                                                                            most recent sexual encounter (DHS 1997).
                                                                            Trends incondom use by high-riskgroups
         All Urban Rural A11 Urban Rum1 All Urbm R U I ~ Ail Urban Rural

                    R96197                             2009                 have not been systematically tracked, but

Source: DHS 1996197: KAP2003                                                a recent study reveals highrates of
                                                                            condom use by prostitute^.^^

57. The Ngoniristudy ( 2001) revealsthat use of condoms by prostitutes is highest in urbanareas, where 82
percentof professional prostitutes and 52 percentof those engaged in clandestine prostitution report that they
regularlyusethem. In ruralareas an estimated 55 percentof professional prostitutesreport regular useof
condoms, while regular use among clandestine prostitutes is much lower at 20 percent.While there is no
baseline against which to comparethesefindings, discussionswith a wide rangeof actors and stakeholders,
and consultation of project designdocumentation,revealthat condomswere both unavailableandtaboo inthe
early 1990s.

                                                    24



 4.30     I n the absence of incidence data, it is difficult to evaluate the extent to which
 theproject has slowed the spread of HIVinfe~tion.'~              At the time ofproject design 2,865
 AIDS cases hadbeenreported over the 9-year period 1986-1994. Duringthe following
 eight-year period (1995-2002) an additional 14,108 cases were reported, a fivefold
 increase. However, even the most recentlyreported cases were most likely the result o f
 infections which occurred before the start o fthe project andAIDS cases are
 underreported.

 4.3 1    A series ofpopulation-based                Figure9. Trends inAdult Prevalencein
 surveys o f general and specific                    Three Cities
 populations reveal HIVprevalence rates
 for different geographical regions,                       10

 different population groups, and different              :: 8


 periods (Annex D). These data for the                   8  6

                                                         a 4
                                                         0)

 most part show snapshots o f rates o f                  h z
                                                         B

 certain groups andor regions at a certain                  0
 time. The only trends that these datashow                     1989   2000         I989   1997         1989   2000

 are (a) an increase inthe prevalence rates                      Sarh              Abechb               Bongor

 inthe cities ofSarh, AbechCandBongor                Source: Populationbased studycovering6 cities (N'Djamena,
 (see Figure 9), and (b) a slight decline in         Moundou, Sarh, BongorandAbechB. (Organizationfor the
                                                     Coordinationof Epidemics of CentralAfrica, OCEAC, 1989); and
the prevalence among militarypersonnel               populationbasedsurveys onAbBche, Bongor, and Sarh (PNLS)
                                                     1997and2000
inN'Djamena (from 10.2 percent in1995
to 8.40 percent in 1997).59




58. The objectiveof the projectwas to slow the spread of HIV,which means reducingthe numberof new
infections. Prevalence is affectedby the numberof new infections,the numberof past infectionsand the
AIDS mortalityrate and therefore masks the rate of new infections (incidence). Becauseof the delay in the
onsetof AIDS of 10 years or more, HIV prevalencecan rise quicklyearly in an epidemic, beforeAIDS
mortalityaffects HIV prevalence. Subsequentdeclinesin prevalencewill be attributablein partto AIDS
mortalityand may not necessarilyreflectdeclines in new infections.
59. The samplesize of these studies is not known.

                                                               25


 4.32       Figure 10shows                     Figure 10. HIV PrevalenceAmong Women Using Prenatal
 that prevalence among                         Services inFour UrbanSites, 1999-2002
 women usingprenatal
 services infour urban                                 10%
 sites6"has increased from
 4.0 percent in 1999to 7.5                          8C  8%

 percent in2001 andthen                            f> 6%
 decreasedto 6.4 percent
 in2002.61While                                    I!   4%

 available data reveal that                        =1   2%

 HIVprevalence hasrisen                                 0%
 over the past decade in                                       1999              2000             2001        2002
 the general population                         I
 andthat itmayhave
 stabilized among                              Source:MOPH 1999-2002 sentinel site data from: Bol,N'Djamena,   Bongor, and

 pregnant women using                          Sarh.

 prenatal services inurbanareas, these data do not reveal the extent to which changes in
 prevalence are due, on the one hand, to risingmortality due to AIDS, and, on the other
 hand, to reductions innewinfections.

 5.        Ratings
 5.1       Outcome. The outcome of the Populationand AIDS Control Project i s rated
 moderately satisfactory overall, basedon an unsatisfactory outcome o fthe population
objective and a satisfactory outcome o fthe HIV/AIDS objective (see Table 1). The final
ratingwas derived from a heavier weighting o fthe outcome o fthe HIV/AIDS objective,
commensurate with its highrelevance and its share o fthe total project cost (about two-
thirds).

Table 1. Summary OEDRatings" by Objective

                                                     ~     -Relevance
                                                                   -           Efieacy            Efficiency      Outcome     -
To advance the onset o f fertility decline by increasing
the use o fmodern methods of contraception                   Modest           Negligible           Modest       Unsatisfactory


To slow the spreadof HIVinfection bypromoting
behavioral change                                             High            Substantial        Substantial     Satisfactory

* See insidecover of this report for definitionsof relevance,efficacy, efficiency and outcome.



60. The only four sentinel sites for which data is availableevery year during the period 1999-2002are the
urbansites of Bol, N'djambna,Bongorand Sarh. Two other urbansites (Abecheand Moundou)did not
have complete data sets over this time periodand so were eliminatedfrom this trend analysis.
61. Data from all 11sentinel sites reporting in 2002 (ofwhich seven classifiedas urban and four classified
as rural) indicatean overallprevalencerate among pregnantwomen usingprenatalservices of 5.82 percent
(seeAnnex Dfor details). Given that seven of the 11sites are urban, national prevalenceamong this group
is likely to be lower when weightedfor the urbanhuralpopulationdistribution.These data should be
interpretedwith caution as capacitiesfor the collectionand analysisof epidemiologicaldata are still
consideredto beweak; and ruraldata are too recent to revealtrends. Furthermorethe representativityof
these data is notsure as less than halfof all women utilize prenatalservices (AnnexD).

                                                 26


 PopulationOutcome

 5.2     Based on assessments of its relevance, efficacy and efficiency, the overall rating
 of the outcome of thepopulation objective is unsatisfactory. The fundamental
 objectives o freducing fertility andreducingpopulationgrowth are not articulated inthe
 Government's PRSP (October 2003), nor does it mention family planningfor birth
 spacing andfamily well-being. The document's treatment o fpopulationi s to note that
 demographic factors (including population growth) call for strong economic growth to
 ensure sufficientjobs and access to services for a growing population, and a
 redistribution o fthe h i t s o f economic growth to those most inneed. Neither are the
 control o f populationgrowth or the reduction o f fertility specified among the Bank's
 CAS objectives (November 2003). Under the umbrella o f the MDGs, however, a number
 o f determinants o f fertility are highlightedinthe CAS, including: reductioninthe poverty
 andvulnerability o fwomen, increased girls' enrollment inschool, and reductions in
 maternal and child mortality. Relevance o f the population objective i s thus ratedas
 modest.

 5.3     Efficacy inachieving the objective o fraisingthe moderncontraceptive
 prevalence rate to 10percent by the year 2000 is negligible. Population-related behavior
 change is progressing slowly, at best, with only very modest increases incontraceptive
 prevalence rates documented between 1996and2000. Efficiency o f efforts to reach the
populationobjectives is modest. Because o f staffing shortages, a shortfall inUNFPA
 financing, andupheaval causedby a reorganization o f CERPOD,62the Department o f
Populationwas late inproducingmajor research and studies, althoughthe quality o fthese
 studies i s high.Absence o f effective coordination o fthe multiplicity o f IEC initiatives
 andIEC unitsacrosshave causedeffortsto be fragmented anduncoordinated. The
institutional framework for populationpolicy approval and oversight was highly
inefficient. At the decentralized level initial efficiency o fthe newly established CRPRH
was low, but improved over time.

HIV/AIDSOutcome

5.4      Theoverall outcomeof theHIV/AIDS objective is satisfactory, based on the
following ratings of its relevance, efficacy and efficiency. The relevance ofthe
HIVlAJDSobjectiveis high. BoththePRSP andCAS are articulated around the MDGs,
which specify the goal o f controlling the spread o f HIVand a three-year outcome
indicator o freductions inhigh-riskbehavior for HIV/AIDS prevention. The project's
efficacy inachievingthe HIV/AIDSobjective i s substantial. Overall, goodprogress has
beenmade inincreasing levels of, and decreasing inequities in, awareness andknowledge
o fthe population about HIV/AIDS. The social marketingprogramhas significantly
increasedthe availability o fcondoms throughout Chad at an affordable price. Taboos
associatedwith the purchase anduse o f condoms have decreasedconsiderably. Available
data indicatemodest, butpositive, changes inbehavior, a trend which is likely to
continue, and which contributes directly to reductions ininfection. There i s inadequate



62. With whom a majorcontract was signedto providetechnical assistanceand capacitybuilding.

                                                     27


 evidence available on trends inthe number o fnew infections (incidence) inthe general
 population and among high-riskgroups.

 5.5       The efficiency inachieving HIV/AIDS objectives isjudged to be substantial
 overall. Morethanhalfthe project resources were ultimately channeled through the
 nongovernmental sector to two autonomous agencies, which provedto be efficient in
 their operations. First, FOSAP (responsible for the social fund) disbursed 133 percent o f
 funds initially allocated for civil society and decentralized subprojects. The microfinance
 subcomponent achieved a reimbursement rate that exceeded90 percent, inspite o fthe
 fact that itrelied onthe few microfinance organizations that existed inChad, whose
 capacity was weak. Challenges remainto improvethe coordinationo f subprojects so as to
 minimize duplicationor gaps inessential interventions. Second, MASOT, incharge o f
 the social marketingcomponent, was efficient inits organization andits operations,
 especially after the initial technical assistancewas replaced at the mid-termby new
 technical assistance that was more gearedto the transfer o f skills.

 5.6      ThePNLShasnot been fully efficient inleadingand coordinating MoPH's
 responseto the HIV/AIDS epidemic. By design, the PCT inthe MoPC carried out the
 role o f inter-sectoral coordinationo f HIV/AIDSactors andactivities. The PCT was
 highlyefficient inmanagingandoverseeingproject implementationandwas proactivein
communicatingwith the multiplicity o f actors andbeneficiaries, boththrough frequent
field           andthroughregular (monthly) meetings with key actors on each o fthe four
components.

5.7       InstitutionalDevelopment. The project's support to the development o f
institutions for population andHIV/AIDS is substantial. The establishment o f a social
fimdhas (a) significantly strengthened incentives ofarangeofpublic and
nongovernmental stakeholders to become involved inpopulationandAIDS; (b)
supported the decentralization o fpopulation andHIV/AIDS activities; (c) incited a new
dynamic o f inter-sectoral andpublic-private partnershipsinthe planning and
implementationof activities, especially at the local level; and (d) fostered the
strengthening and expansion o f civil society organizations. FOSAP is a well-established
agency, with substantial reach throughout the country made possible byits contractual
arrangements with field-based, intermediaryNGOs. It evolved from a temporary agency
set upunder the auspices o fthe PCT into a fully autonomous agency with a permanent
legal status. Likewise, the social marketing entity set up under the project evolved from a
temporary project entity (MASACOT) into a fully autonomous agency (AMASOT) with
a permanent legal status. AMASOT's performance i s strong, with growing sales in
condoms and oral rehydrationpackets and an expanding portfolio64and it is staffed with
capable staffbothinthe areas o f social research andmarketindsales. The creation and
successful operation o f these two legally autonomous entities has reformed the way
populationandHIVIAIDS activities are carried out. A significant portion o fthe


63. Mostfield visits undertaken were carriedoutjointly with the managementlteamof the ongoing health
operation.
64. Other commodities are beingaddedto its portfolio under the follow-on operation, including impregnated
mosquitonets, female condoms and hormonal contraceptivesfor women.

                                                  28


 population andHIV/AIDS agendais inessence subcontracted out to the
 nongovernmental sector.

 5.8       Public sector institutionbuildingfor populationhasbeenmodest. The numbers and
 qualifications o f staffinthe Directorate o fPopulation fall short o fthose neededto fulfill its
 mandate, particularly inthe disciplines o fdemography andsociology. Regional-level
 capacity inthe planningandimplementation o fpopulationactivities was strengthened
 through the technical and financial support o fthe inter-sectoral CRPRff which conceived
 andoversaw local-levelpopulationactivities.

 5.9       SomeHIV/AIDS institutionaldevelopment has also been achieved inthe public
 sector, although considerably more i s needed. By designPNLSwas relievedo f inter-
 sectoral coordination responsibilities underthe            to enable it to focus its limited
 capacity on mobilizing and guidingMoPHinfulfilling its critical mandate inthe fight
 against HIV/AIDS. Progresswas made instrengtheningcapacity for epidemiological
 surveillance andinthe provisiono fcriticalinputs for keyHIV/AIDS and STD services
 delivered throughthe public health system. Inaddition, regionallevel capacity for the
planningandimplementationofHIV/AIDS activities was developed throughtheprovision
 o ftechcal and financial assistancechanneledthrough inter-sectoral RegionalHealth
 Councils insupport o f local levelHIV/AIDS initiatives. These Councils existedprior to
the project, but informants havereported that they were not functional untilthey benefited
from project support.

5.10       Sustainability.The sustainability o fproject efforts is likely.BothFOSAP and
AMASOT havepermanent legal statusthat providethemwith autonomy intheir
functioning, an independent andcompetitively recruited staffo fprofessionals andviable
mechanisms for public-privateoversight andcontrol. Furthermore, their strong and
improvingperformances are attracting the financingo fother partners indevelopment
wishmg to contribute to the fight against HIV/AIDS. Revenues from the sale o f
commodities are usedto finance the operational costs o fAMASOT. The strong demand
for the services o fboth entities underpinsustainability fkom a social perspective. There i s
also evidence that the strengthening andinvolvement o fcivil society has achieved
momentumat the local levelthat will last beyondany one investment. Empowerment and
self-reliance was observed inthe input anddemeanor o f localassociations, some o fwhich
were formed and functioning without direct (continued) project support. Civil society i s
also carryingout an advocacy role from the local level (e.g., prostitutes, PLWHA) to the
national level (e.g., national-level NGOso fwomen, ministers, parliamentarians, retired
civil servants).

5.11 The sustainability o f efforts to establish, disseminate andeffectively use
demographic and socio-economic data will depend heavily on Government's success in
the recruitment o fanadequatenumber o fprofessional staff, continued efforts to generate
demand for these products, andthe relevance o fthe population messages.


65. The MoPCwas chosen as implementingagency giventhe multi-sectoral natureof populationand
HIV/AIDS activities. The PCTwas responsiblefor the management, supervision and financing of HlViAIDS
activities.

                                                   29


 5.12     Bank Performance. Theperformance o f the Bank isjudgedto be satisfactory
 overall: satisfactory duringprojectpreparation and highly satisfactory duringproject
 implementation.

 5.13     Duringpreparation, the Bankhelpedacceleratethedevelopment andofficial
 adoption o f the populationpolicy as well as the second medium-termplanfor AIDS
 control. A participatory approach to project preparation helped to engender understanding
 andcommitment among abroadrange of stakeholders. The Bank also deserves credit for
 aproject design that emphasizespublic goods that have often been neglected inother
 projects. However, for the majority o fproject indicators baseline data were not
 established, some project targets (notably the populationobjective) were not realistic, and
 others were never quantified.

 5.14    DuringimplementationtheBank was persistent, candid, andvigilant incarrying
 out advocacy at all levels o f government about the risks and consequenceso f the
 HIV/AIDS epidemic andincited govemment officials to visit the field to observe the
 realities o fthe HIV/AIDSepidemic andpopulationissues. The Bank i s credited with
 contributingto breakingthe taboo o fHIV/AIDSwith frank and open discussions about
 highlysensitive issues (e.g., condoms, prostitution). The Bank's advocacy about
 population, especially the promotion o f family planning for matemal and child healthand
 familywell-being, was met with great discomfort and evenresistance onthe part o f
 Chadian leaders and authorities; and so a tactical decisionwas made to focus Bank
 advocacy where there was morereceptivity and opportunity for achieving goals. The
 frequency, staffing and duration o fBank missions andthe continuity o fthe task team
managemenPhave enhancedBank effectiveness duringimplementation. The Bankwas
considered bymany interviewedto bevery client-oriented, with good listening and
response skills. A case inpoint i s the task team's success inintroducingthe microfinance
for women subcomponent following the MTR, which was initially resistedby some Bank
experts.

5.15     Borrower Performancewas satisfactory overall. Its most notable
accomplishments duringpreparation were the preparation and approval o fthe national
populationpolicy andthe second medium-term plan for the fight against HIV/AIDS.
Failure to deposit the initial counterpart fimds as originally agreed ledto delays inproject
effectiveness.

5.16     During implementation the Government's failure to provide counterpart funds in
adequate amounts and on time impeded the efficiency andtimeliness o fproject
implementation. Furthermore, the failure o fthe high-level population commissionto
meet and approve the plan o f action andpriority investments for population (PAP) was
an important cause o fdelay inthe populationcomponent andan indicator of lack o f
Government commitment. Health-related activities and epidemiological surveillance
were implemented, albeit with some difficulty, attributable to very weak capacity o f
PNLS. Despitedifficult countrycircumstances, andweak Governmentcapacityoverall,


66. The task manager remainedthe samefrom effectivenessthrough the to the close of the project(and
continueswith the implementationof the follow-on operation).

                                                      30


 the other two components were well implementedwith very good performances bythe
  implementing agencies, AMASOT andFOSAP.The performance o f the PCT was highly
  satisfactory withregardto management, coordination, and oversight o fproject
 implementation, good quality andregular communications with the key actors and
 implementers o f each component, and fulfillment o f all fiduciary andreporting
 requirements o fthe Bank. Synergies established with the project management o fthe
 ongoinghealthoperation permitted good coordination andcomplementarityo fthe two
 operations.


 6.      Findings andLessons

 6.1     TheBank can be instrumental in stimulating government commitment with
 regard topopulation and HIV/AIDS throughpolicy dialogue, advocacy, technical
 support and lending, but such support is insufficient to consolidateand sustain that
 commitment. Throughpolicy dialogue andtechnical assistanceprovidedinthe context o f
 project preparation, the Bank supported the development and approvalby Government o f
 policy and strategic documents for addressing population issues and for fighting
 HIV/AIDS. Government's agreement to borrow for HIV/AIDS was inconsiderable part
 attributable to the Bank's persistence inhighlightingthe risks andconsequences o fnot
 addressing HIV/AIDS duringthe preparation o f the healthoperation in 1994. The Bank's
 persistence and candor helpedopen a national discussion on HIV/AIDS.

 6.2     Otherfactors that are critical to raising and sustaining Government
 commitment are (i) the relevance of the objective, determined inpart by the availability
 of local evidenceand data; and (ii) the degreeof mobilization of civil society. The
 support o f HIVlAIDS research, data collection and analysis, studies andthe strengthening
 o f a sentinel surveillance system have providedconcrete, country-specific (and region-
 specific) information to sensitize officials onthe progression o f the epidemic, and its
 socioeconomic consequences. Over and above these data, the fight against HIV/AIDS
becamemore relevant (especially inthe south) as the epidemic progressed andmore
people observed first-hand andwere affected bythe disease and its consequence^.^' The
objectives o f the second medium-term plan(to prevent fwther infection, to care for those
infectedandto mitigate the social and economic impact o f the disease), thus have
immediate andgrowing relevance. As civil society mobilized itselfto undertake its own
action, as new local associations o f vulnerable and affected groups were formed, and as
public-private partnerships were formalized, civil society advocacy has raisedpressure
for public sector engagement and accountability (associations o fPLWHA at the local
level, andnationalNGOs o fwomen ministers andparliamentarians are two cases in
point).

6.3      Datawas also generated on populationsize, growth and dynamics inChad and
projections were available as early as 1994, assessingthe consequences o frapid
population growth on the socio-economic development prospects o fthe country. While

67. Informantsat the local levelfrequently referredto the infectionor death of a family memberor close
friend.

                                                    31


 there was general consensusinChad about the desirability o f implementingthe
 populationpolicy components aimed at improving the rights, opportunities, services and
 well-being of mothers and children, the notion o f limitingfamily size was met with some
 reticence. Highinfant andchild mortality andpoverty have propelledcouples to have
 more children for social security intheir old age and for supplemental householdincome
 andlabor. As opposed to HIV/AIDS, the relevance andimmediacyo fobjectives to
 reduce the rate o fpopulation growth were not nearly as apparent. Eventhe use o fmodern
 contraception for child spacing -which can lower child mortality and improvematernal
 andchildhealth-- has not beenfully embraced.As a consequence, civil society
 advocacy around the objective o fincreasing the modem contraception rate has not
 happened.

 6.4     Successful achievementofpopulation and HIEAIDS objectivesrequires the
 conviction and commitment of public sector and nongovernmental leaders and
 decision-makers in all layers of Chadian administration and society. Thestimulation
 and nurturing of national commitmentrequires continuous and multiple efforts, given
population mobility and turnover in leadershipandpublic sectorpositions.

 6.5     Capacity building of public sector institutions will not be successful if efforts
are not aligned with the official mandates of these institutions. The institutional
 framework for the fight against HIV/AIDS had already beenestablished at the project's
outset. By government m6te6*the PNLS was giventhe responsibilityfor the coordination
andmanagement o fHIV/AIDS/STD activities inthe country, including the provisiono f
technical oversight and support to nationalpartnersintheir fight against
HIV/AIDS/STDs, and for epidemiologicalsurveillance andother relevant data collection
and analysis. However, becausethe PNLSineffect was so weak, andbecausethe other
components o fthe institutional framework for HIVIAIDS were not considered to be
sufficiently ftlll~tional,~~ the project was set up to give the PCTMoPC the defacto
responsibility for inter-sectoral coordination.

6.6      Because PNLS's mandate was never changed, there was confksion and frustration
about its role. Tracking and coordinationo ffinancial and technical assistanceto the fight
against HIV/AIDS, as well as strategic programcoordination andoversight, have not
been effectively carried out to date.70An institutionalaudit has recentlybeen carried out
that has launched a reflection within Government andbetweenGovernment and its
partners about a realignment o fresponsibilities inline with comparative advantages, on
which basis adequate staffing and capacity buildingcan be envisioned.




68. Arr6te No. 5771MSPIDGl98of April 28, 1998, modifyingarr6te No. 59IMSPASISE/DG/PNLS/91of May
13, 1991, modifyingArrete No. 31IMSPISEIDG/O131DAFM/DIW88.
69. The NationalCommittee for the fight against HIVIAIDS (CNLS),created in 1988 by governmentdecree
No. 035lPWPSPl88of March 19, 1988, and the TechnicalCommissionfor the FightAgainst HIVIAIDS
(CTLS), created by governmentarrete No. 012lPMT195 of February 12, 1995.
70. As a consequence, this evaluationwas unableto provide an overviewof the nature,levelsand impacts
of other partners'contributionsto HlVlAlDScontroleffortsduring the life of this project.

                                               32


 6.7     Bythe sametoken, aninstitutionalframework for the coordinationand
 implementation o fpopulationpolicy hadbeen established before the project, but an
 institutional assessmentwas not undertaken to inform the design o f the project's capacity
 buildingefforts. Effortsto amendthis framework duringimplementationwere
 unsuccessful.

 6.8     The channeling of funds to inter-sectoral committeesresponsiblefor population
 and HIV/AIDS at the regional level stimulated decentralized, multi-sectoral action.
 However, the absenceof full-time staff at the regional level to undertakeHIV/AIDS
 program management and coordination has undermined the effectiveness and
 efficiency of regional level operations.

 6.9     Financing and technical support alone will not optimize the individual and
 collectiveefforts of the various sectors. Theproject stimulated and supported the
 preparation andimplementationo fHIV/AIDSproposals from seven sector Ministries,
 andelicited Government co-financingo f20 percent o fthe costs o fthese activities. The
 stimulus was the availability o f supplemental funds (both those providedby the project
 andthose providedthroughbudget supplements). A number o fministries didnot (fully)
 include intheir proposals key activities for which they have the comparative advantage.
 For example, the Ministry o fJustice supported targeted activities for prisoners, but has an
 important role to play indefining and defendinga legal framework for the fight against
 HIV/AIDS, includingthe protectionofrights ofpeople livingwith HIV/AIDS. Another
 example cited i s the potentialrole o fMinistryo f Social Affairs and Family to expand its
 role beyond the care o f orphans to encompass ways andmeans o freducing
 vulnerabilities. A definition o froles, comparative advantages and target groups might
have elicited the most critical responsesfrom respective sector ministries for higher
impact results, more fully responsive to national objectives. Currently there is little rigor
inthe specification andmonitoringofaccountabilities for results. Forthe mostpart
HIV/AIDS activities are designedand implementedbyHIV/AIDS focal persons or
designated units, with little involvement o f the rest o fthe Ministry; andinter-sectoral
coordinationhas not fully exploitedpotentialsynergies across sectoral responses.

6.10    Absence of a strategy on communicationsfor behavior change and the lack of
clarity of roles and responsibilities across the multiple institutions that carry out IEC,
have undermined the quality and effectiveness of public sector and nongovernmental
action. Virtually all sector ministries andnon-publicpartners design their ownprevention
messages and campaigns. There i s no one entity responsible for coordinationand
oversight. Ministryo f Communicationhas a full-time personresponsible for HIV/ALDS
activities (training o fjoumalists and radio andtelevisionmedia campaigns), the IEC unit
within PNLShas developed some IECmaterial and carries out an ongoingHIV/AIDS
campaign carried out by and for youth, but does not have the capacity for oversight and
coordinationo f all communications efforts for prevention. Some sector ministries have an
IEC unit. The Population IEC unit, responsible for coordinating and overseeing all
population-related IEC has remarked that they have great difficulty inmobilizing various
IEC experts from different ministries for discussion andcoordination because they are
not sufficiently elevated inthe public sector hierarchy or have sufficient authority to

                                                       33


 oversee IEC activities inother ministries. The project missed an opportunity to clarify
 roles and responsibilities and strengthen coordinationcapacity inthis regard.

 6.11 Even in the context of a multi-sectoral approach to the achievement of
 HIV/AIDS andpopulation objectives,the role of the health sector ispivotal. The health
 sector's ability to carry out its potential role effectively was undermined. First, its
 mandate is not fully or clearly defined inthe healthpolicy document, nor are
 accountabilities o frelevant departments and divisions o f MoPH specified;                  Second, the
 healthsector response i s limitedbyvery weak health sector capacpity                            Project
 support has made headway instrengthening epidemiologicalsurveillance, but this
 capacity must bemainstreamed into the MoH, beyondthe PNLS. However, the health
 sector i s very behindintakingon other core activities that are public goods. Technical
 experts interviewedhave estimated that the blood supply is still unsafe. Training,
 guidelines andprotocols andthe provisiono f drugs have started to buildcapacity o f
health services to diagnose andtreat STIs and opportunistic infections, but the quality and
 coverage and reliability o f these services are lacking. Testing capacity i s far below what
i s needed, especially now that the Government i s subsidizing ARVs, which will stimulate
increased demand for tests. Preventiono f transmission within healthfacilities i s
inadequate. Itwas mentionednumerous times duringfield visits and exchanges with
actors at the national level that health sectorpersonnel are amongthe least mobilized o f
all civil servants working on HIV/AIDS andthat more effort is neededto informand
involve them inthe fight and to relieve them o f the fear and stigma with which they tend
to be associated.

6.12       The absence of baseline datafor many of the key indicators and of a monitoring
and evaluationplan has undermined opportunities to track theperformance and
impact of nationalpopulation and HIUAIDS efforts and to refine approaches and
increase effectiveness in light of experience. Informationon trends i s limitedthus far to
HIV among pregnant women, which isnotparticularlyuseful for gaugingtrends innew
infections. Some trends on knowledge, awareness andbehavior canbe derived from the
DHS(1996/97),the UNICEFmultipleindicatorsurvey (2000) andthe2003 KAP, but
questions andindicators vary across surveys makingthem non-comparable. Furthermore,
data collection activities were not designed to measure many o fthe indicators identified
at project appraisal. Informants have pointedout the absence o f denominators o fkey
target groups such as number o f orphans, schools, etc. and ofcurrent coverage o fthese
groups (numerators) that make it impossibleto set viable targets for coverage o f services.
Implementationo fthe civil society projects has been evaluated and auditedby the Social
Fund, butprogram effectiveness would benefit from results-focused evaluations. The
hctional relationship between the M&Eunit o fPPLS andthe PNLS/MoH i s weak.



71. The 2000 health policy makes referenceto the PNLS as the responsibledepartmentfor HlVlAlDS
activities, makingno referenceto any responsibilitiesof other departments.It also highlightsthe importance
of multisectoralcollaborationwithout clearly distinguishingMoPH's role and comparativeadvantages.
72. Overallweaknesses in healthsystem capacity, include: humanandfinancialresourcesconstraints,low
service quality and utilization rates (seeAnnex D),sporadicavailabilityof drugs and supplies, and many
competing priorities.

                                                        34


 6.13      TheBank can be effective in influencing theBorrower to supportpublic goods
 and high-impact interventions. Withinthe overall context o fpopulationpolicy andthe
 second medium-termplanfor HIV/AIDS, the Bank supported the productiono fpublic
 goods, interms o f collection andmaintenance o fbasic epidemiological, behavioraland
 populationdata, that most likely would not have enjoyed such highpriority inthe
 absence o f Bank assistance.

 6.14     The inclusiono f a well-designed component on social marketingo f condoms
 channeled resources to a potentiallyhigh-impact intervention. The social fund
 supplemented the borrower's implementationcapacity with that o f civil society and
 established partnerships with civil society and across development sectors. Within those
 partnerships the Bank encouraged the targetingo fhigh-risk groups, and (as experience
 was gained) the definitiono fmandates o fpublic and civil society actors inline with in
 line with their comparative advantages. The Bank's support o f intermediaryNGOs for
 capacity buildingo f local associations was also a good strategic choice. As ARVs
 became more affordable and Parliament passeda billto subsidize their costs, the Bank
 continuedstrong advocacy for maintaining a priority on prevention. The Bank was less
 successful inencouraging targeted behavior change interventions, as opposed to IEC.

6.15      The strategy o f intensive IEC inthe early years o f the project to inform civil
society about the social fund, followed bythe recruitment o fintermediary NGOs to build
capacity insubproject proposal writing and implementation andto stimulate the
formation o f additional relevant local associations, provedto be very effective in
gradually engaging civil society inpopulationand HIVlAIDS while providingthem with
needed support and guidance. This experience also points to the need for improved
coordination andmonitoringand evaluation o fNGOactivity.

6.16      Government financing o f NGOssupported not only a complement to public-
sector activities, but also strengthenedadvocacy role o f civil society. The creation o f
associations o fPLWHA andprostitutes give legitimacy to these groups and contribute for
humanrightsandequity advocacy. The support of associations ofParliamentarians, high-
level civil servants, the business sector andretiredtechnicians has created an important
force indemandingthe involvement and accountability o fpublic officials inaddressing
HIV/AIDS.

6.17     A second Population andAIDSproject" continuesBank support to Chad's
population policy and HIV/AIDS strategicplan. Its development objective i s to
contributeto the behavior change o f different populations inan effort to reduce the risks
o fHlV infection, closely spacedbirths, andunwantedpregnancie~.'~



73. Credit No. 3548 was approved on July 12,2001, and became effective on April 11,2002.
74. To this end it supports: (i) scaling up multi-sectoraland decentralizedactivitiescarried out by publicand
privatesector agenciesand civil society; (ii) targeted behaviorchange interventions;(iii) an increasein
voluntarytesting and counseling:(iv) reductionin vulnerabilityfactors through incomegeneration,women's
education,and care of those infectedand affectedby the epidemic:and (v) an increase in the availabilityof
condomsand contraceptivesto enable adoption of healthy behaviors.Support is channeledthroughfour
components: (a) strengtheningof the capacitiesof the key ministries; (b) strengtheningof grants and micro-

                                                       35


  6.18     Inaddition, the HealthSector Support Project (HSSP)75supports the strengthening
  o fbasic health services, includingreproductive health, and includes an HN/AIDS
  component to support epidemiological surveillance andhealthcare practices for limiting
  the risks o fHIV transmission (enhanced blood safety, improved STItreatment and
  control, andreduction o f risks o f clinical infection).

  6.19     The Government is currently financing ARV treatment for about 80 AIDS
  patients and the Global Fundwill support expansion o f this program. Additional patients
  are accessing ARV through a Government subsidyprogram.76While HSSP does not
  finance the purchase o f ARV drugs, it haspositioneditselfto support needed
  strengthening o ftreatment and referral services. The second Population and AIDS Project
  i s financing a consultant to help MoPHdevelop a global care and treatment framework, a
 management system for ARVs, and a national reference guide.

  6.20     Current Bank support to populationandHIV/AIDS remains strong andreflects
 manylessons learned duringthe implementationofthe first operation, corroborated by
 other relevant OED reports,       77notably: (a) continuedemphasis on prevention; (b) the
 development o f a communications strategy for behavior change and definition o froles
 andresponsibilities for its coordination, management andimplementation; (c) continued
 efforts to address vulnerabilities, buildingon the experience and outcome o fmicrofinance
 for women and expanding to other vulnerable groups (such as prisoners); (d) review and
 revision o fthe institutionalframeworks for population andHN/AIDS for greater
 efficiency; (e) intensified support to MoPH capacity; and (f) improvementsto program
 monitoring and evaluation.

 6.2 1    The importance o f sound andrigorousmonitoringandevaluationcannot be
 overemphasized. With the ongoing Bank support a project monitoring and evaluation
 planwas developed andagreedthat defines 24 indicators and specifies data collection
 methodologies and responsibilities. Impact indicators focus on behaviors, HN
prevalence, and measures o f STDs among keypopulations. A second DHS i s planned,
 along with the first nationalHNsero-prevalence survey and a beneficiary assessment. A
 full-time M&Eexpert has been recruitedinto the PCT, However, there i s scope for
intensifying efforts on a number o f fronts, notably: establishment o fbaseline data for all
program indicators; greater consistency inthe type and frequency o fdata collection to
enable the tracking o f trends over time; and inclusion o fmeasures o f incidenceto track
rates o fnew infections among the general populations and among high-risk groups.



credits underthe social fund; (c) supportto the social marketingprogram; and (d) populationpolicy
implementation.
75. Credit No. 3342 was approved on April 27,2000, and became effectiveon February28,2001.
76. The monthly costof ARV is 20,000 CFAfrancs, or about US$40 (price at which the Central Procurement
Agency buys the drugs): underthe Government`s ARV subsidy program,Parliamentvoted a budgetwhich
finances 15,000 CFA francs of the monthly costsof ARV and the patientco-paysthe balanceof 5,000 CFA
francs.
77. "NongovernmentalOrganizationsinWorld Bank-SupportedProjects," 1999:"Social Funds:Assessing
Effectiveness,"2002; and "OED Reviewof Bank Lendingfor Linesof Credit," 2004.

                                                 37


References

Ahmat, Bongo. 2001. ((Evaluation duprogramme de crCdit de l'association d'appui a m initiatives
         a la base (APIBASE).))Novembre 2001.
Assemblee Nationale, RCseaudes Parlementaires Tchadiens, Population et le Developpement,
         Coordination, Secretariat Executif. ((Propositionde Loi portant lutte contre le
         V W S I D M I S T en Republique duTchad.)) Fevrier 2001.
Banque Mondiale, Region Afrique, Departement duDeveloppement Humain. ((Le secteur de la
         SantC au Tchad: Analyse et Perspectives dans le cadre de la strategie de reduction de la
         pauvretk: Raport analytique SantC et Pauvretk. Serie Documents de Travail No. 48.
         March 2004.
"Big OilandHealth: Lessons fi-om the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Project." Princeton University,
         Woodrow Wilson School o f Public Healthand International Affairs. May 2004.
Bilan de l'exercise 2001, PPLS (internal project report). 2001.
EpiSida Tchad :Bulletin semestriel d'infonnation epidemiologique duPNLS/IST
Gbenyon, Dr Kuakuvi. 2001. "Analyse des organs et mechanisms de mise en oeuvre de la
         declaration de lapolitiquede population du Tchad et assistance technique :Rapport
         d'evaluation 2eme partie, N'Djamena, 24 avril2001.
Greindl, Dr.Isaline. 1997. Evaluation externe du volet lutte contre le SIDA duprojet population
                             ((
         et lutte contre le SIDA au Tchad, ))17 septembre - 10 octobre 1997.
Guengant, Jean-Pierre. 2001.   ((Rapport de Mission `Plan de suivi et evaluation'.))12juillet
         2001.
((Le FOSAP dans la perspective duPPLS 2.)) Decembre 2000.
Lehmann, L.and A. Lemel. 2003.       ((Ventes transfi-ontalikesde prdservatifs des programmes de
        marketing social en Afhque Central.   )) KfW. Mars2003.
Kayaye, Adam Abakar. "Projet de Promotion de la JeunesseDescolariseepar la couture et la
        menuiserie; MaOKanem, 1999-2001:Rapport Final des ActivitCs." 2001.
Miller, Hillary A. et John Jespen. 2001. ((EvaluationduFond de Soutien aux activitCs en mati&-e
        de population (FOSAP): le Rapport Final.)) Mars/Avril2001.
Ministitre de la Promotion Economique et duDeveloppement, Direction de la Statistique, des
        Ctudes Cconomiques et demographiques, bureau central durecensement. ((Enquete par
        grappes a indicateurs multiples: Rapport complet.)) janvier 2001.
Minist2re de la Promotion Economique et duDeveloppement. 2000. ((Le FOSAP:CinqAnnCes
        d'Appuia la Lutte Contre le SIDA et a la Politique de Population au Tchad.)) Decembre
        2000.
Ministkre de la SantC Publique, DirectionGeneral, Programme National de Lutte Contre le SIDA,
        Divisiondu Systkme d'hformation Sanitaire, ((Systkme de Surveillance Epidemiologique
        duVIH/SIDA/MST: Reformulation.)) Decembre 1995.
Ministibe de la SantC Publique, DirectionGCnCrale, Programme Nationale de Lutte Contre le
        SIDA. ((Rapport annuel d'activitks 1997.)) Janvier 1998
Ministere de la Santk Publique, Secretariat d'Etat, Direction Gknerale, Programme Nationale de
        Lutte Contre le SIDA. (<plan Strategique National de Lutte Contre le SIDA 2001-2003.B
        Juillet 2001.

                                                 38


Ministere de la SantC Publique, Secretariat d'Etat, DirectionGCnCrale, Programme National de
        Lutte Contre le SIDA, ((Politique Nationale de Lutte Contre le SIDA.)) Mars 1990.
Ministere de la SantC Publique, Secretariat d'Etat, DirectionGCnCrale, Programme Nationale de
        Lutte Contre le SIDA/MST et Organisation Mondiale de la Sante, Bureau Regionalpour
        1'Afrique. 2002. (@rotocole pour la surveillance de second gCnCration de l'infection par le
        VIH.))Mars 2002.
Ministere de la SantC Publique, Secretariat General, DirectionGCnCrale des Ressources et de la
        Planification, Directionde la Planification, Division du Systkme d'Information Sanitaire.
        ((Fiche Relative a 1'Appui duProjet Population et Lutte Contre le SIDA a la DSIS: de
        1997 B 2001.)) 2001.
Ministkre de la SantC Publique. ((PolitiqueNationale de SantC.)) 1999.
Ministere de la SantC et des Affaires Sociales, Directionde la Planification, de la CoopCration et
        des Statistiques, et RCgionAfrique, Banque Mondiale, Le Secteur de la SantC su
                                                                ((
        Tchad : Analyse et perspectives dans le cadre de la stratCgie de rCduction de la
        pauvretk, >> RCgionAfrique, DCpartement duDCveloppement Humain, SCrie documents
        dutravail, No. 48, Mars2004.
Ministkre duPlan, duDeveloppement et de la Cooperation, Secretariat General, Direction
        General, ProgrammeNationale de Lutte Contre le SIDMST. (ailan Analyse et
        evaluation des activitCs de la caravane desjeunes anti-SIDA duPNLS?IST (1999-2001).>)
       Decembre 2001.
Moto, Dr.DauglaDoumagoum, Dr.Yemadji N'Diekhor, Dr.Deoudje Noe, NathanNaibei. 2000.
       ((Etude transversale de seroprevalence duVIH/SIDA/MST dans la ville de Bongor.        ))
       Janvier 2001.
Moto, Dr.DauglaDoumagoum, Dr.Yemadji N'Diekhor, Dr. Deoudje Noe, NathanNaibei. 2000.
       ((Etude transversale de seroprevalence duVIH/SIDA/MST dans la ville de Lere.      ))
       Septembre 2001.
Moto, Dr.DauglaDoumagoum, Dr.Yemadji N'Diekhor, Dr.Deoudje Noe, NathanNaibei. 2000.
       ((Etude transversale de seroprevalence duVM/SIDA/MST dans la ville de Moussoro.          ))
       Novembre 2000.
Moto, Dr.Daugla Doumagoum, Dr.Yemadji N'Diekhor, Dr.Deoudje Noe, NathanNaibei. 2000.
       ((Etude transversale de seroprevalence duVWSIDA/MST dans la ville de Sarh. M a i   ))
       2000.
Ngaidoro, Djimdingar Zaboul. 2001. ((Evaluation Finale duProjet appui aux activitCs de
       l'association des femmes et enfants d'abord, execute par ASFEA. Aout 2001.
                                                                           ))

Ngaidoro, Djimdingar Zaboul. 2001. "Evaluation Finale duProjet d'education et de prevention
       desjeunes de la ville de N'Djamena sur le SIDA, execute par OFAD." Ministere de la
       Promotion Economique et duDeveloppement, Comite Interministeriel de Coordination
       des ActivitCs des ONG, Secretariat Permanent des ONG (SPONG), Aout 2001.
Ngaidoro, Djimdingar Zaboul. 2001. "Evaluation Finale duProjet de prevention a la transmission
       sexuelle et bien-etre familial, execute par ADELIT." Ministere de la Promotion
       Economique et duDeveloppement, Comite Interministeriel de Coordination des Activitts
       des ONG, Secretariat Permanent des ONG (SPONG), Aout 2001.
Ngarmig-Nig, Djibrine. 2002.  ((Rapport Final duProjet Population et Lutte contre le SIDA :
       Credit 2692-CD    D.Ministere de la Promotion Economique et du developpement,

                                                 39


         Secretariatd'Etat, Direciton GCnCrale, Projet Population et Lutte Contre le SIDA (PPLS).
         Fevrier 2002.
Ngoniri, Gos M'Bairo. 2003. "Rapport d'Evaluation duprogramme de micro credit du
         APZBASE. Aout 2003.
                     ))

Ngoniri, Gos M'Bairo, 2002. "Rapport d'Evaluation duprogramme de micro credit duCEPIUC."
         Novembre 2002.
Oumar, CamanBedaou. Enqdte CACP/IPP (Comportement, Attitude, Croyance,
                          ((
         Pratiques/IndicateursPrioritaires de Prevention. ))Ministere duPlan, duDeveloppement
         et de la Cooperation, Projet Population et LutteContre le SIDA. Octobre 2003.
Oumar, CamanBedaou et Jean-PierreGuengant. SecondRapport : Indicateurs de Suivi et
                                                  ((
         Evaluation, Janvier a Juin 2003. MinistereduPlan, duDeveloppement et de la
                                         ))
         Cooperation, SecretariatGeneral, Equipe de Coordination duProjet Population et Lutte
         contre le SIDA 2. Decembre 2003.
Piche, Victor. 1997. "Evaluation duvolet population duprojet population et lutte contre le SIDA
         (Credit IDA 2692-CD): Rapport d'Evaluation," Departementde demographie, Universite
        de Montreal/"Djamena,      2 septembre 1997.
Projet Population et LutteContre les IST/SIDA.2001. "Analyse de la situation dans le contexte
        de laprostitution auTchad: Etudequalititative."
((40 ans de delestage.)), N'Djamena Hebdo No. 436 du 07 septembre 2000, p. 9
(aapport de Cinq Annees (1997-1998-1999-2000-2001-2002) d'ActivitCs de PPLS Idans le
        Kanem/Bahr -El-Gaza1.nCommission Regionale de la Politique de Population du
        Kanem, Bureau du Secretriat General de la Commission. 2002.
((Rapport de Synthese Activitts, Projet EducationNutritionnelle et Sanitaire dans le Cadre de
        PPLS 1, Aout 1999 au octobre 2000.)) Association de Lutte contre la malnutrition dans le
        Kanem(ALCMK). 2000.
Republique duTchad, Region duGuera, DepartementduGuera, ComisihPrefectorale de la
        Population et des Ressourceshumaines duGuera. Rapport des ActivitCs de 1999 a
                                                            ((
        2002.)) Juin 2003.
Wakam, Jean. 2001. Niveaud'application de la Declaration de laPolitique de Population et
                     ((
       contribution duPPLS `a sa mise en euvre :Rapport d'evaluation duvolet population :
       Premiere Partie    B,avril2001.
Wyss, Kaspar, GuyHutton, N'Diekhor Yemadji, LaoubaouAbdias Nodjiadjim, Tinro
       Mbaiogoum, NathanNaibei. 2001. Impacts socio-CconomiquesduVIH/SIDA au
                                            ((
       Tchad :Rapport Final d'Etude, Tome B. )) Swiss Tropical Institute, Centre de Support en
       SantC Intemationale au Tchad. Juin 2001.
World Bank. Development Credit Agreement (Population andAIDS ControlProject) between
       Republic of Chad and Intemational Development Association. CreditNumber 2602 CD.
       April 14, 1995.
World Bank. 2000. Project Appraisal Document: Health Sector Support Project. Report No.
       20189-CD.
World Bank. 2001. Project Appraisal Document: SecondPopulation and AIDS Project. Report
       NO.22003-CD

                                            40


World Bank, 1995. Staff Appraisal Report: Population and AIDS Control Project. Report No.
      13869-CD. March 3, 1995.
WorldBank: Internal Documents.

                                                           41


 Annex A. BasicData Sheet

 POPULATION AND AIDS CONTROL PROJECT (CREDIT 2692)




 Government
 Communities
 Cofinancing
 Cancellation




                                                                Original                           Actual
 Boardapproval                                                                                    03/23/95
 Signing                                                                                          04/14/95
 Effectiveness                                                  7/14/95                           09/08/95
 Closingdate                                                  06/30/2001                         12/31I2001




                                                                 ActuaIlLatest Estimate
                                                W Staff weeks                              us$us$(`ooo~

Identification/Preparationa                          23.3                                      63.7
AppraisalINegotiations                               16.6                                      66.6
Supervision                                          101.8                                    418.5
ICR                                                   7.2                                      33.1
Total                                                148.9                                    581.9        ______ - ._
a. The low number of staffweeks for projectpreparationand appraisalis relatedto the fact that mostof the projectwas
preparedas partof a "Health and Population"operation.However, duringthe appraisalmissionof the Healthand
Populationproject(November 1993), itwas decidedto divide the projectintotwo separateprojectsand to add AIDS
mitigationactivitiesto the Populationactivities.The Healthand Safe Motherhood Projectincludedall the health aspectsof
the preparedprojectand was to be implemented by the MOPH.The Populationand AIDS Projectwas to be implemented
by the then Ministryof Planning(nowthe MEPD). Infact there was only one projectpreparationmissionin May 1994
when the AIDS component was prepared. The projectappraisalwas carriedout in November 1994,at the same time as
the first supervisionmissionfor the Healthand Safe Motherhood Project.With regardto supervision,the numberof staff
weeks is also low in comparison with similar projectsbecause the supervisionalways took placeat the same time as the
supervisionof the Health and Safe Motherhood project.

                                                       42


Mission Data
                            No. of            Specializationsrepresented            Performance   Rating trend
                           persons                                                     rating
Identification/Preoarationa   6       1 DivisionChief/Economist,
                                      1 PopulationSpec.,
           FY1994                     1 Community-DevelopmentSpec.,
                                      1 Public HealthSpec.,
                                      1 IEC/Pop. Spec., 1 Consultant

           FY1995             4       1 PopulationSpec.,
                                      1 Community-DevelopmentSpec., IPublic
                                      HealthSpec., 1 IECIPop.Spec.
AppraisalINegotiation         7       1 Sr. Pop. Spec., 1Architect, 1 Pharmacist, 1
           FY1995                    STD Spec. 1 ImplementationSpec.,
                                      1 Community Dev., Spec.,
                                      1 Public Health Spec.
Supervision
           FY1995             4       1 Sr. Pop. Spec., 1 PublicHealthIAIDS               S            S
                                     ControlSpec., 1 Division Chief,
                                      1 Sr. Staff Assist.
           FY1996             3       1 IECIPop. Spec., 1 ImplementationSpec.,
                                      1 Proc.Spec.
           FY1997             4       1 AIDS Control Spec., 1 IECIPop. Spec.,
                                      1 Sr. ProcurementSpec., 1consultant
                              10     1IEC/Pop. Spec., 1Sr.ProcurementSpec., 1
          FY1998                     Architect, 1Sr. ImplementationSpec.,
                                     1PublicHealth/STDSpec., 1AIDScontrol
                                     Spec., 1Pop. Spec., 1Economist/Social Fund
                                     Spec., 1Senior AIDS Adviser,
                                     1Consultant.
          FY1999              11     1IEC/Pop.Spec., 2Sr. ProcurementSpec., 1             s            S
                                     Sr. ImplementationSpec., 1PopulationSpec.,
                                     1Sr. PublicHealthSpec., 1AIDSControl
                                     Spec., 1social ProtectionSpec., Sr. AIDS
                                     Control Adviser, 1Economist/Social Fund
                                     Spec., 1Financialanalyst, 1Spec. in
                                     Community Participation.
          FY2000              5      1IECSpec., 1ImplementationSpec., 1Public             S
                                     Health Spec., 1Demographer & Economist, 1
                                     FinancialManagementSpecialist.
                              5      1IECSpec., 1ImplementationSpec., 1Public             S
          FY2001                     HealthSpec., 1Demographer & Economist, 1
                                     Finanaal ManagementSpeaalist.
          FY2002              5      1IECSpec., 1ImplementationSpec., 1Public             S
                                     HealthSpec., 1Demographer & Economist, 1
                                     FinancialManagementSpecialist
ICR
          FY2002              3      1Sr.PopulationSpec., 1PublicHealthSpec.,
                                     1ImplementationSpec.
a. Mostof the preparationwas doneas partof a "Healthand PopulationProject"whichwas split intwo.

                                          43




Annex B. Personsand OrganizationsConsulted

CHAD

N'Djamena

Ministry ofPlan, Development and Cooperation

Mahamat Ali Hassan, Minister o f Plan, Development and Cooperation
Saradimadji Mingabaye, Secretary General
Djourbe Taiki Zeune, Director o fPopulationActivities Coordination,
Ninoam Ngakoutu, National Expert, PopulationandDevelopment
NodjimbantemNgoniri Joel, Statistical Demographer/Consultant, Population and
   Development
Mahamat Saleh Idriss, Coordinator, Populationand AIDS Control Project (PPLS)
Caman BedaouOumar, M&EOfficer, PPLS

Ministry ofPublic Health

Madame Aziza Baroud, Minister o f Public Health
Dr.Mahamat Saleh Younouss, Secretary General ofHealth
Dr.HamidDjabar, Coordinator ofthe NationalAIDS andSTD ControlProgram
   (PNLS/IS T)
Abdoulwahab Sani, Youth Leader, PNLS
Ahmat Idriss Rozi, AdministratorlManager, PNLS
Dr.Donato Koyalta, Assistant Coordinator, PNLS/STDs
Dr.NoueDeoudje, EpidemiologicalSurveillance Service, PNLS
Moussa Issaye, Administrator o f PlanningDepartment, Health Information Systems
Youssouf A. Kadjangaba, Chief, Information, Education and Communications Unit,
   PNLS
Mme NalgaKatir, Information, Educationand CommunicationsUnit
Rangar Ndjenadjim, Responsible for Oversight o fNGOs, PNLS
Dr.NoelDjemadji, ChiefofSexuallyTransmitted DiseasesDivision

Other Public SectorAgencies/Actors Implementing HIV/MDS
Activities

Mahamat Galli Mallah, Secretary General, MSPI
Dr.andColonelAdrinkaye Allao Dounia, Director ofHealthandHIV/AIDS
   Coordinator, Ministry of Defense
Kouladingar Kaha Dakor, Coordinator ofAIDS andPopulationUnit,Ministry o f
   Communication

                                                    44


 Mbaindingatoloum Rawei Elise, Coordinator o fA I D S Unit,Ministryo f Social Action
     andFamilyAffairs
 Moulkogue Boulo Felix, Coordinator o f AIDS Unit,Ministryo fNational Education

 Non-GovernmentalSector/CivilSociety

     A. NGOSubprojects:

 NGOincharge o fcivil society capacity building:
          Mr.Piquet, SONGES
          Nateguingar Franco-Joseph, Researcher andNGO Support Officer,Health and
          Environment Support Office (BASE)

 NGOImplement~rs'~:
          Mme CarmelNgarmbatinan, President, Network o f Women Parlementarians and
          Ministers andPresident o f the Board o fAMASOT
          Pastor DjibC, Network o f Evangelist Missions and Churches inChad
         MmeDjikoloumKesias Garba, CCEVF
         MbaiguedemDjai Daniel, CCEVF
         Pastor Mbaiadoum Obed, JACT
         Nassaradoumadji Mathieu, JACT
         Mahamat BCchir, ITS
         Mahamat Amine Abdel-Mazid, C.S.A.I.
         Corinne Bali, Coordinator, Support for Eastern European andAfrican NGOs
         (SONGES)
         Arsene Mayangar, SONGES
         LoumHinansou Laina, CONALUS
         M m e Zenaba Borgoto ASFEA
         Dr.MbeurnodjiLucien, UCCT
         NodjitoloumJustin, UCCT

    B. Microfirzance:

FOSAP(Fonds de soutien aux activitCs enmatikre de Population et de Lutte contre le
    SIDA) ;
         Nodjikwambaye Enock, Deputy Administrator-Manager
         Ache Djidda, Accountant
         NgarbaroumModobe, Microcredit Officer




78. These NGOs representeda rangeof constituencies,themes and missions,including: health of nomads,
Islam,Christianreligions,community developmentand empowerment, youth movements,coalitionof public
sector leaders, women and children's health and well-being,among others.

                                           45


    C.SocialMarketing:

Social Marketing Association o f Chad (Association our le Marketing Social au Tchad-
    AMASOT):
        DokblamaKadah, Director o f Service Center
        Rino GuyMeyers, TechnicalAdviser


Bilateral andInternationalPartners

Marie-Paule Fargier, Pharmacist, European Union
Dr.Abdelmajid, HealthProgramOfficer, Swiss Cooperation
Dr.FariaIbrahim, TechnicalAdviser, HIV/AIDS Project, UNDP
Dr.KekouraKourouma, CountryProgramCoordinator, UNAIDS
Keumaye Ignegongba, Assistant to the ResidentRepresentative, Poverty Alleviation
    Unit,UNDP
MouenonDenis, Technical Adviser, FrenchCooperation
Dr.GrangaDaouya, UNICEF

WorldBank Office,NWjamena

Gregor Binkert, Country Manager
Mahamat Goadi Louani, Senior HumanDevelopment Specialist
Joel Tokindang, Economist, World Bank
Fridolin Ondobo, FinancialManagement Specialist

Moundou/DepartmentofLacWeylRegionof LogoneOccidental

Mahamat Bechir Cherif, Governor, Regiono f Logone Occidental

RegionalCommissiononPopulationandHumanResourcesandHealth
Advisory CommitteeMembers

Mbaikeboum Kagao, Prefect, D.Lac Weg
Malangso Souleymane, Secretary General o f Commission, Ministryo fPlan,
   Development and Cooperation
PassehDavid, Assistant Secretary GeneraVCFW, Civil Society
Dingamtoudji Ngana Esaie, First Vice President, Chadian Association ofFamily
   Wellbeing (ASTBEF)
Miambaye Rando, Treasurer, DRCJS
Mme NdingambayeRomian, TGA, DRASL
NdingambayePascal, Logistics Officer
Weigue Laoundodji, RegionalDelegate for National Education, Ministryo fEducation
Vissia Bouranga, Regional Delegate for Economic Affairs for the 2 Logones and Tandjile
   Districts
Mbairareou Yanlingar, Logistics, Ministry o f Commerce

                                          46


Dr.MbaintissemMbuitotouvas, ChiefMedicalOfficer, MoundouDistrict

Non-GovernmentalSector/CiviISociety

NGOincharge ofcivil society capacity building:
    0  World Vision


Microfinance Agency: CEPRIC
    0  KagdomMagourna, Coordinator
    0  MmeTamissengar Evelyne, Manager
    0  Mme Nadingar Ndjilarlem Odile, staff
    0  BendodjimBenjamin, Accountant
    0  Koulangar Ngartoubam, Trainer
   0   Keimbaye Mbailemdana, Trainer

Beneficiaries:
   0   Representatives o f Women's Groups and Women's Cooperatives (names not
       obtained)

Regional Branch o f AMASOT

Bongor/Department of Mayo-Boneyemegion of Mayo-Kebbi Est

Governor o fthe Region

RegionalCommissiononPopulationandHumanResourcesand
RegionalHealthAdvisory CommitteeMembers

Goundou1Vikama, Director o fPlan, Secretary o fthe Commission
Mor Victor, Mayor o f Bongor city
Nodji Wassem Gerard, SGRMKE
Mme MoussaCharlotte Ouagadijio, RegionalDelegate o fwomen's associations o f
Mayo-Kebbi/Tandjile

Dr.BopanTekemet, RegionalDelegate for Public Health, Mayo-Kebbi
Bakreo Dakssala, RegionalDelegate for Social Action andFamilyAffairs, Mayo-
   Kebbi/Tandjile
Dingatoloum Barack, Animator, CLACA3ongor
Gnavourbe Tao, RegionalDelegate for Public Works
Seibana Daniel, DDCJSMayo-Boneye
Loubata Jean, RegionalDelegate o fPolicelMayo-Kebbi Est
Dosso Bessoum, Adviser to the Minister o fPlan

                                            47


 Non-GovernmentaISectorKiviISociety

 NGO incharge o f civil society capacity building:
        SONGES

 Local Associations:
    0   ADSEC Guidawa

 Microfinance Agency: APIBASE (Association d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base -
    Association for the Support of Community-Based Initiatives)
 0      Mana Malgueteng, Chief
 0      Andrews Yoh Pudens, Animator
 0      MharyMournor Jean, Animator
 0      Jurs Clement, Animator
 0      Tocsouma Houmaizou, Accountant

Beneficiary Women's Groups:
        Iya Gama ElHadji Oumar, Member, Tamidja
    0   Falmatou Sidi, Secretary, Udjekusarenove
    0   Yoma Rosalie, Member, Udjekusarenove
    0   Yawada Marie, Secretary, Minaituya
    0   Zen0 Marcelline, Secretary, Udjekusa
    0  DoudouMoksia, President, Minaituya
    0   SambaRigale, President, Takasna 1
    0  DeniseVayanga, President, Takasna 1
    0  Ndiguimal Rebecca, President, Komna le Denedje
   0   Modjimariya Nahomie, President, Takasna I1
   0   Largoto Martine, Member, Takasna I1

   0   Mianda Falla, Cashier, Minaituya
   0   Delao Marthe, Cashier, Takasna I1

Mao/Region of Kanem

   Govemor o fKanem

RegionaICommissiononPopulationandHumanResources
andRegionalHeaIthAdvisory CommitteeMembers

IssenBenMoussaye, RegionalDelegate for National Education, Ministry o fNational
   Education
Malloum Abakar Kaya, Association to FightMalnutritioninKanem
HeriataMoussa, Association Femink
DohMallah, Coordinator, ETMS/Mao
KedelaBatran, Chief, Forestry Inspection, Kanem

                                            48


Dr.Oumar Abdelhadi, RegionalDelegate for Health, MinistryofPublic Health
Barka Tambour, RegionalDelegate for Social Action and FamilyAffairs
Ahmad Moustapha, P. Com. Su. Affairs, DKM
k i n a 0110 Japhet, Pastor, Evangelist Churcho f Chad
Adoum Goulgue, Representative, Catholic Church
Representative o f Islam

Non-Governmental Sector/Civil Society



NGOincharge o f civil society capacity building:
e       Dr.BrumaMasumbuko, Technical Advisor, GTZ
e       Ahamat Mahamat Abdou, Trainer, GTZ

LocalAssociations :
e       MallaBatran, HealthAgent andPresident, ADESK
e       MoustaphaNgartorangal, Representative, ARNUT
e       Achta Bintou Moustapha, Women's Group Loelle, Social Center o fGFB
e       Ache Bougoudi, staff, AFAT
e       FatimeMahamat Seid, Women's Group o f Matoboko
e       Ahmat Moustapha Outman, ASUDEK
0       Abdallah Moustapha, Secretary General, APLFT
e       Hisseine Issa, Red Cross o fKanem
e       Ali Abakar, President, ADEK
e       Malloum Abakar, Representative, ALCMK
e       Ali Lanne, Secretary General, AJACKanem
0       Choukou El-Hadj Mahamat, Head, ADIS

Microfinance Agency : ADIS (Agence d'Encadrement pour les Credits)
e       Choukou El-Hadj Rahamata, Head
e       Haoua Sedik, Credit Agent
e       Achta Bouguidi, Credit Agent

Mitoissi Kossadoum, Manager, FOSAP

Beneficiaries of MicrocreditdRepresentatives o f Women's Groups:
e      HadjeAchta Oumar
e      Bintou Batran
e      Zara Laye


MongoPRegion of G d r a

Secretary General o f GutraDepartment

                                         49



Regional CommissiononPopulationandHuman Resourcesand
RegionalHealthAdvisory CommitteeMembers

IbrahimHassanBargouley, RegionalDelegatefor Finance, MinistryofFinance
Ramat Mangue, RegionalDelegate for Social Action, Ministryo f Social Action and
   Family Affairs
Yadia Banserne Pierre, RegionalDelegate for Economic Affairs, Ministryo f Commerce
Nossor Doungous, Regional Delegate for NationalEducation, Ministryo fNational
   Education
Souk Kangoutoum, RegionalDelegate for Culture, Youth and Sports, Ministryo f
   Culture, Youth and Sports
Ganda Nabia Koutou, Chief o fBureau, Customs and Taxes
Adoum Vamalia Abakar, RegionalDelegate for Plan and Development, Ministryo fPlan
Daniela Stirpe, Public HealthDoctor, SECADEV
HassanaAnguimi, Subprefect o f Mongo
Dr.Ali SoumaineBaggar, RegionalDelegate for Health, Ministry ofPublic Health
MmeMahazalneeMankassia Tchere, member
Yacoub Hassan, IFC Officer

Non-GovernmentalSector/CivilSociety

NGOincharge o fcivil society capacity building: ITS/SwissInternationalOrganization
      Mahamat Abbo, Officer, ITS/CSSI
      Abdel-Madjid Hanan,Assistant Officer, ITSlCSSI
      Akaye Albert Mustapha, Animator, ITS/CSSI
      DjimyeWeletna, Animator, ITS/CSSI

Local Associations:
      Fatime Sorom, Presidente, AFGDR
      MaimounaMoussa, Treasurer, AFGDR
      Maimouna Tassigot, AFGDR
      MariamMahamat Saleh, AFGDR
      Amsakine Outman, Adviser, AFGDR
      KadidjaAyoub, Adviser, AFGDR
      Younous Dris, ADECAB
      HamdanIbet, ADECAB
      Hassan Souleymane, Financial Secretary, ADECAB
      AllamineMoussa, Secretary General, ADESCAMO
      Ali Chachate, ADESCAMO
      Mahamat Chaltout, ADESCAMO
      Mahamat Madri, ADESCAMO
      Asan Souleymane Al-Nidal
      Abdel-Aziz Abbas, Administrative Secretary, Al-Nidal (association of
      combatants)

                                           50


       MoussaFayaDouzet, President, Al-Nidal
       Makaye Elie, Assistant Secretary General, APLD
       B r ~ Dabara, President, PROJAET
               m
       DjimetDarap, Treasurer, PROJMT
       HisseinDagasche, Adviser, PROJAET
       Caleb Deodere, Secretary, PROJAET
       AssociationofFree Women, various members



Microfinance agency : ACCORD
       Seid Gaye Alexis, Head
       Idriss A. Foudoussia, Supervisor


Kilabe MbaitoloumAbel, Regionalbrancho f AMASOT

WASHINGTON,D.C.

LauraFrigenti, Sector Manager, HumanDevelopment, AFTH3, World Bank
Michele Lioy, Senior Population Specialist, AFTH3, World Bank

                                                     51




 Annex C. Population and AIDS ControlProject (Credit No.
 2692)      -- Presentation            of ProjectComponents

      The project was designedto assist the Government inimplementingits long-term
 strategy inpopulation and family planningand its medium-term plan 1995-99 (MPT 2)
 for AIDS control. Its overall objectives were to advance the onset o f fertility decline by
 increasing the use o fmodemmethods o f contraception (from 1percent in 1990 to 10
percent by 2000), and slow the spreado fHIV infectionbypromoting behavioral change.
Project assistance was channeled through four components:

     (a) Strengthening of national capacity to implement thepopulation policy (US$8.0
million). This component sought to strengthen capacity o f the newly created Division o f
Populationwithin MoPC to undertake population-related activities, particularly: (a) the
dissemination and coordinationo fthe implementation o fpopulationpolicy; (b) the
planning, management, and evaluation ofpopulation-related activities; (c) the planning,
coordination, and implementationo f donor-financed projects; and (d) the integration o f
demographic variables into sector plans. Project support included office rehabilitation,
equipment, logistical support, participation inintemationalmeetings, contractual staff,
training, technical assistance, includinga twinningarrangement with the Center for
Research on Population and Development (CERPOD), inBamakoMali.79The project
also financed IEC activities and radio and TV programs inan effort to disseminate the
populationpolicy andto promote awareness o f the relationshipbetween population and
development, especially among identifiedtarget groups such as opinion andreligious
leaders, women, NGOs, reporters, youth (12-25 years), andmembers o f trade unions and
associations.

    This component also supported collectionand analysis o fbasic demographic data to
improve knowledge o f socio-demographic indicators. To this end, it financed a national
studyonmigrationandurbanizationandanalysis o fthe 1993 censusdata andthe first
demographic and health survey (DHS).Project assistance also includedcontraceptive
supplies for matemal andchild healthservices providedthrough the public health system
to fill the gap created bythe withdrawal o fUSAID support in 1995.The total estimated
cost o f contraceptives to beprovidedunderthe project was US$3.0 million(38 percent of
the component cost).

    (b) Strengthening of national capacity to contain the spread of HIV/AIDS/STDs
(US$6.6million). This component sought to strengthen the capacity o fthe Ministryo f
Public Health(MoPH) to manage and coordinate the AIDS Control Program andto carry
out epidemiological surveillance and operational research. Project support consisted
primarilyof (a) long- andshort-term technical assistance inkeydisciplines, notably
epidemiology andprogrammanagement; and (b) long- and short-term training in

79. A Sahelianinstitution of the Inter-CountryCommittee on the Fightagainst Desertification(Comiteinter-
etats de lutte contre la secheresse dans le Sahel,CILSS).

                                                       52


 epidemiology, management, IEC, and health information systems. Support was directed
 at the PNLS, CNLS, CTLS, and the MoPH division incharge o fhealthmanagement
 informationsystems. Inaddition, this component financed epidemiological, operational,
 andsocio-economic researchunderthe supervision o fthe General Directorateo f
 Planningo fthe MoPC. Plannedactivities includedthe development o ftwo additional
 sentinel sites (for a total o f seven); five studies o f HIV/STD prevalence among target
 groups; two knowledge, attitude, practice (KAP) studies; and a study on the priority
 indicators o fpreventionto permit assessment o f impact o f interventions. Other studies
 plannedto improve healthservices response included: the development o f algorithms for
 the management o f STDs andAIDS patients; the preparation o f a referralprotocol for
 people with HIVlAIDS and their families; the evaluation o fthe clinical definition of
 AIDS; a study on the relationship o fHIV andtuberculosis (TB) to improve the treatment
 o f TB and a study on the socioeconomic impact o f AIDS at the individual, family,
 community, and macroeconomic levels.

      (c) Establishment of a social marketingprogram for condoms (US$7.1million).
 This component aimedto increase the availability andpromote the use o f condoms for
AIDS prevention. The main benefit envisaged was reduced transmission ofHIV and
other sexually transmitteddiseases (STDs), a secondary benefit beingprotection against
unwantedpregnancies. Targets were to increase the useo fcondoms fiom an anticipated 2
millioninthe first year o fthe project to about 4.8 million inthe last year o f the project,
reachinga cumulativetotal o f about 14millioncondoms sold during five years. Project
support included: technical expertise insocial marketing and auditing, contractual
professional stafc training and study tours to develop capacities insocial marketing and
IEC; condoms; equipment and logistical support; and rehabilitation works.

      The condom social marketingprogramwas managedinanautonomous manner by a
social marketingunit establishedwith project assistance, under the general direction and
guidance o fASTBEF'O with the technical support o f a social marketing firm, inclose
coordination withPNLS andincollaboration withpublic sector andcivil society. Project
support envisagedincludedspecialist services, localprofessional staff, training, logistical
support and office equipment, studies, andoperating costs.

(d) Promoting theparticipation of the nongovernmentalsector inpopulation, family
planning, andHIV/AIDS/STDsprograms (US$5.5 million). T l s component supported
the establishment o f a social h d (Fonds deSoutien aux Activitks en mati2re de
Population, FOSAP) to provide grant financing to civil society for populationandAIDS
control activities inorder to complement and enhancethe interventions o f government and
the social marketingprogram. A minimumo f40 A I D S control subprojects would be
supported encompassing (a) preventionaimed at key target gro~ps;'~and (b) mitigation
through theprovisiono fpsychosocial support for HIVIAIDSpersons and their families in


80. ChadianAssociationfor FamilyWell-being (AssociationTchadiennepour le Bien-EtreFamiliale),an
affiliateof the InternationalPlannedParenthoodFederation.
81. Target groups identifiedfor preventionactivities includedyouth, prostitutesand their clients, civil
servantsof key ministries,migrantworkers, and truck drivers on major migrationand transport routesto
Cameroon and Nigeria.

                                                  53


 five prefectures. The project also envisagedsupport to a minimumof20population
 subprojects including (a) targeted IEC;" (b) activities to improve women's income-eaming
 capacities and status; and (c) studies andoperational researchon the acceptability o fnew
 contraceptive methods. In addition, giventhe weak capacity o fpotentialbeneficiaries o fthe
 grants (national NGOs, local associationsand individualhealth service providers) FOSAP
 would support several "resource projects" (projets dynamisateurs) bywell-established
 NGOsto buildcapacity amongpotential beneficiaries inthepreparation, implementation,
 andevaluation oftheir subprojects




82. Targetgroups identifiedfor populationIECincludedmen, teenagers,workers, agriculturalextension
workers, community developmentworkers, women's associations,ruraldevelopmentcooperatives,and
privateemployers.

                                                   54




Annex D. Programand ProjectData

1. HIV/AIDS/STDandBehavioralSurveillanceData
     (Source: PNLSMoPH Surveillance Data)


Table D-1.Evolutionof PrevalenceRates in Generaland Specific Populations derived from
Seroprevalence Surveys 1997        - 2000
                                                                   Prevalence Rates
   Year            GeographicArea           General                     Specific                Prevalence
                                           Population                 Populations                  Rate
1989           Abeche                          0%
               Sarh                           0.5%
               Moundou                        1.6%
               Bongor                         0.6%
               N'Djamena                      1.02%
1995           N'Djamena                               Prostitutes                                 14%
               N'Djamena                               Pregnantwomen using prenatalservices        2.1%
               N'Djamena                               Militarypersonnel                          10.2%
1997           Abeche                         2.1%
               Am-Timan                       6.1%
               Sarh                                    Prostitutes                                26.4%
               Logone Occidental/                      Migrants                                    7.93%
               Moundou
               Moundou                                 Military personnel                          8.48%
               N'Djamena                               Military personnel                          8.40%
2000           Sarh                          8.84%
               <el0                         15.03%
               -ere                         11.21%
               -ac                          10.10%
               vloussoro                     2.68%
               3ongor                         6.5%
Source: Ministryof Health, NationalAIDS Program, drawingfrom a series ofseroprevalencestudiesduring
wer the period 1989-2000.

                                      55



Table D-2. Prevalence of HIV Among BloodDonors (percent), by Year
[number ofpeople sampled]

                    1999
                  (2nd half)    2000          2001            2002

N'Djamena            27.8         8.1           2.8             4.8
                    [15201      [2381]       [19301           [I8881
Sarh                                            9.1             9.9
                                               [I971           [202]
Moundou              25.4         8.3           5.0
                    [I811        [591]        [398]



Bongor               3.0          6.9          6.6
                    [338]        [577]       [I0171
Kelo                               0            0
                                 [25]           [7]
Amtiman                           0             0

Kourma                                          0
                                               [21]
Abechb                                          0

Ati                               0
                                 [I81
Average1
Total               23.5         7.8           4.5             5.3

                   120391       3651          3594            2090
Source: PNLSIMoPH

                                               56




                              1999
                           (second           2000            2007          2002
                           semester)
  A. Urban Sentinel Sites
  Abeche                        5.2                             2.6             3.4
                             [I 721                             1771         W31
  Bo1                          2.6               2.3            4.0            4.0


  Mongo                                                                         1.2
                                                                             [331I
  Bongor                       3.9               3.8            8.9            5.3
                             14641              14681         I4921          I3751
  Ndjamena                     3.2               6.7            5.9            7.5
                            [12641            [I9601          [4061          I3991
 Moundou                      10.5              11.1                          11.9


 Sarh                          5.3               9.0            7.9            8.3
                             I8491            [I1281          [go11          14001
                                        ~~~
 a. Averaselsubtotals          4.8               7.0            7.3            6.2
                           132861             137761         [19761         126031
                         4           I                   I              I
 B. Rural Sentinel Sites
 Massaguet                                                                     7.7
                                                                             13121
/ndena                                                   I            I        2.8     I

 Bah                                                                           3.2
                                                                             13911
 Dioli                                                                         8.3
                       I             I                   I            I

                                                                             13261
 b. Average/subtotals  I                                                      5.3
I                      I             I                   I            I     ~ 4 2 8 1  I
                       I             I                   I            I


IC. Averagekotal       1      4.8    I          7.0      1     7.3    I       5.8      I
                           [3286]            [3776]          [19761         [4031]

                                        57




 Table D-4 Prevalence of Syphilis among Pregnant Women Using Prenatal Services
 by Sentinel Site and by Year
                                      i             1             1                1
 [numberofpeoplesampled]
                       7999 (second
                       semester)           2000         2007           2002

 A UrbanSentinelSites                                                             I
 Abeche                        0.6                       9.1              5.7
                            [I 721                       [771           WI
                      I       6.8     I      5.4    I    5.0      I     20.6      I




 N'Djamena                    3.0           5.3          5.2            15.3
                            1264         119601         14061          13991
IMoundou              I       1.9     I      1.1    I    1.o      I      6.1      I

 Sarh                         5.7           6.0          2.3             4.0
                            [8491        [ I1281       [go11           [4001
 a. Averagelsubtotals         5.6           5.7          3.4             8.6


 6. RuralSentinelSites
IMassanuet           I               I             I             I      18.6      I

IGuelendeng          I               I             I             I       4.0      I

 Bah                                                                     7.2

IDjoli                                                           I       3.1


 b Averagelsubtotals
 .                                                                       7.8
                                                                      ~ 4 2 8 1
                     I               I             I             I
 C. TotallAverage
                              5.6           5.7         3.4             8.3

                                      58


  Table D-5. HIV Prevalence among TB Patients by HospitalFacility
  [number ofpeople sampled]

  Cityflown                          1999                        2000
  N'Djamena                           26.2                       20.7


  Am-Timan                                                       15.4

I Ati                                                             1131
                                                                   9.5
                           I                        I             1951
  Koumra                                                         60.0
                                                                 11201
  TotallAverage                      26.2                        25.5




  Table D-6. HIV Prevalence among STD Patients
  [number ofpeople sampled]

  Cityflown (Region)                 1999                        2000
  Am-Timan                                                        9.1

I Ati                                               i             [I11
                                                                    0


  Biltine                                                         0.7
                                                                 11391
  Bongor                             22.7                         5.2




                                     1131
 Fava                                21.3                        20.1


 Mongo                                                              0
                                                                   [GI
 Sarh                                                            42.6


 Mao                                                             21.I
                                                                 1611
 TotallAverage                       21.7                        14.1

                                                          59




Table D-7. Sentinel Sites and Centers for Drawing Blood Samples for Each Sentinel Site
Sentinel Sites
Town/Citv(Prefecture or Deaartment)
           - .                                      Centersfor Drawing Blood
                                                   I
Urban Sites
1. Abeche (Ouaddai)                                 Taiba HealthCenter
                                                    Badawi HealthCenter
2. Mongo (Guera)                                    UrbanHealth Centerof Mongo
3. Bo1(Lac)                                         UrbanHealth Centerof Bo1
                                                    NgarangouHealthCenter
4. N'Djamena (Chari-Baguirmi)                       Assiam Vantou Center
                                                    PolyclinicNo. 1
                                                    NationalReferenceHospitalCentedMaternity
                                                    LiberteHospital
5. Bongor (Mayo Kebbi)                              UrbanDispensaryof Bongor
                                                    Dispensaryof Mairie
6. Moundou(Logone Occidental)+                      Family PlanningCenter
                                                    15Years Health Center
RuralSites
8. Bah (Bar Koh)                                    Bah Health Center
                                                    Dowala-PESANAHealth Center
9. Djoli (LogonOccidental)                          Djoli HealthCenter
                                                    BalmaniHealthCenter


                                                    MoulkouHealth Center
11. Massaguet(Hadjar Lamis)                         MassaguetHealthCenter
                                                    Gredava Health Center
                                                  I
Note: Sample size is 400 blood testsfor each site.
Source: MoWNationalAIDS/STIProgramstatistics, 2003

                                                  60


 Figure D-1. Evolution in Awareness and Behavior 1996/97,2003
a. Percent of those surveyed declaring they have heard of AIDS


             Women       1996/97         Men                       Women         2003       Men
    100%
     _..                                                     100%




     " I "     All UrbanRural       All UrbanRural                    All Urban Rural      All Urban Rural

b. Percent of those who know condoms are a means of protection

                Women     1996197     Men                              Women    2003     Men
   100%                                                      100%


    80%


    60%

                                         41.1
    40%


    20%


     0%
             All UrbanRural        All Urban Rural        I          All Urban Rural     All Urban Rural

c. Percent of those who know that fidelity is a means of protection

                Women     1996197      Men
                                                                       Women        2003    Men
   100%                                                     100%                              86.6

    80%                                                      80%


   60%                                                       60%


          I
   40%                                                       40%
             27.9 28.0 27.9

                                                             20%


   20%
    0%                                                        0%
             All Urban Rural        All Urban Rural                   All UrbanRural     All Urban Rural

Source: DHS 1997and Oumar 2003: KAP Study

                                                        61


2. Reproductive Health Services

Table D-8. Utilizationof ModernMethodsof ContraceptionbyWomen Who Are
Marriedor inConsensualUnions,2000




             I        I     I      I     I       I        I         I       I       I       I     I      I
Levelof instruction

None             0.6   0.6     0.1   0.1    0.0      0.0     1.4       4.6     1.6     0.0    0.1    6.3     7.7

Primary          0.4   1.5     0.1   0.4    0.1      0.3     2.8       3.9     0.5     0.0    0.0    4.4     7.1

Secondary        1.3   8.9    0.0    1.2    0.8      0.0     12.3      2.4     3.8     o.o    0.0    6.3     18.6

Total            0.6   1.1    0.1    0.2    0.0     0.1      2.0       4.3     1.5     0.0    0.1    5.8     7.9




TableD-9.Distributionof PrenatalServices Providedto Women GivingBirthinthe Past




                      Doctor    Nurse/assistant  Midwife    Traditional Other/ND
                                                 assistant   midwife
N'Djamena              2.3       64.1             1.4        5.5          0.0      67.7     26.8     100.0   136
Other cities           2.8       58.7             5.1        4.7          1.3      66.5     27.5     100.0   161
All urban              2.5       61.2             3.4        5.0          0.7      67.1     27.2     100.0   297
Rural                  1.5       26.2             6.9        8.3          2.3      34.5     54.8     100.0  1072
Noschooling         II 1.6   II  27.3          II 5.6     II 8.9       II 1.9    II34.5   II54.7   II100.0II1068  I1
Primary             I  1.9   1   55.6          1  9.6     I  3.5       1  2.7    I 67.1   1 26.6   I 100.01  230  I


Source: World Bank, Governmentof Chad, JointCountry Status Report2004

                                                                    62



   Table D-10. Percentageof Women GivingBirthinthe PastYear ReceivingAssistance
   during Delivery of Expertiseof Assistance
                                     PersonnelAssistinu in Delivew
                                                                                 5o ga
                                 Nurse/     Assistant    Traditional
                                                            birth                6 0
                                                                                 E 8
                                Midwife       midwife                  /Fn'end

                  I           I            I          I              I          I            I        I          I
   N'Diamena      I    2.7    I    46.8    I    2.7   I     14.1     1  25.0   I  2.7   52.4 I  6.0   I 100.0    I    136
   Othercities         1.9         32.8         5.9         27.5        25.4      2.3   40.6    4.2     100.0         161


   Rural               0.2          5.9         2.0         46.0        36.3      2.6    8.0    7.0     100.0        1072

 I Primary    '   I    1.2         25.4   I     3.9   I     31.3     1  31.1   I  3.6   30.5 I  3.5   I 100.0    I    230
   Secondary&+    I    4.9   1I    55.0         8.2         12.0        17.0      2.1   68.1    0.8     100.0          45
                                                                                        16.2 I1 6.6   II100.0    II  1369

   Source: World Bank,Govemmentof Chad, Joint Country Status Report, 2004


  3. Project Data

  Table D-11.PlannedVersus Actual Costs by Component(US$ million equivalent)

  Component                                                                           Planned  Actual     Actual as % of
                                                                                                              Planned
  Reinforcingthe nationalcapacityto implement the nationalpopulationpolicy              7.0     6.1             87%
  Strengtheningthe nationalcapacity to containthe spread of HIV/AIDS and                5.9     5.6             95%
  STDs
  Puttingin placea social marketingprogram for the promotion of condom use              6.4     6.9             109%
  Promotingthe participationof the privatesector and NGOs in population,                5.5     5.6             102%
  family planningand HIV/AIDS and STD programs
  ProjectManagement                                                                             1.9
  Total Base Costs                                                                     24.8    26.1
  Physicalcontingencies                                                                 1.o
  Pricecontingencies                                                                    1.4
  Total Project Costs                                                                  27.2    26.1             96%
  Source:PCT/MOPC,2004

  Table D-12.PlannedVersus ActualProjectFinancing(US$ millionequivalent)
  Financier                                                     Planned                            Actual
  IDA                                                            20.4                               18.7
1 KfW                                         I                   4.4                 I              5.7                  I


  Communities                                                     1.o                                0.9
  Total                                                          27.2                               26.1

 Note: Sources for actual data are as follows: IDA:World Bank Disbursementrecords; KfW:AMASOT (equivalent of 12 million
 DeutscheMarks during 1996-2001); Govemment (World Bank 2002); Communities(calculation of20% counterpart basedon
 FOSAPgrants).

                                                           63


  Table D-13.Plannedvs. ActualCounterpartFinancing(inUS$)

                                   1 Government                                      Communities
                                     Actual         IActualas%      IPlanned        IActual        IActualas%




  Source: ProjectCoordinationTeadMinistry of Plan, 2004


  TableD-14. Plannedvs. ActualUse of IDA Creditby

                                                                        Reallocation
         Disbursement Category                      Initial
                                                 Allocation               (by DCA                   Actual
                                                                        amendment)
  (1) Goods:
     (a) Contraceptives                                2.40                   0.65                     0.64
     (b) Other Items                                   0.50                   1.31                     1.22
  (2) Rehabilitationof Offices                         0.01                   0.08                     0.07
  (3) Consultants'Services                             1.70                   1.93                     2.02
  (4)Training                                         0.70                    1.40                     1.44
  (5) Studies                                         2.70                    1.90                     2.04
  (6) FOSAP Grants                                    2.70                    3.23                     3.55
  (7) IncrementalOperating Costs                       1.50                   1.90                     1.75
  (8) Refunding of PPF                                0.24                    0.24                     0.23
  (9) Unallocated                                     1.45                    0.05                       0
  FOSAP microcredits                                    0                     1.17                     0.80
  Reconciliationof SpecialAccount                                                                      0.09
  Total Irounded)                                    13.9                    13.9                     13.9

  TableD-15.Evolutionin condomsales, 1996-2002
                I  7996     I     7997    I     7998     I    7999   I   2000     I    2007     I   2002    I   2003    1
  January                       214,215       238,080       240,960      12,480      270,720       458,880     799,680
  February                      295,957       213,120       397,440     66,240       229,440       447,360     114,240
  March                         288,040       311,120       695,040     251,520      267,840       352,320    249,600
J April                -        286,329       544,132    ]  616,320  I  121,920   I  328,320    I  485,760  I 386,880   I
IIMay                  -        324,480       339,692       735,360     114,240      229,440      432,000     409,920
  June         III     -    11I 206,400   1II 351,882    1I 908,160  I1 208,320   II 323,520    II 230,400  II531,840   II
  July                         279,072       346,746        356,160     374,400      390,720       514,560    257,280
  August                       413,760       275,770        519,360     203,520      119,040      633,600     167,360
  SeDtember       175.599       69.120       411.040        705.600     161.280      376.320       175.680    244.800
  October      I  196,314   I  176,540   I   340,440    I   563,520  I  235,200   1  280,320    1 582,720   1 292,896  I
1INovember        129,877      326,400       379,920        342,720     139,200      171,840       123,840    109,728
  December     1I 277,075   I1 338,256   11  261,786    11  384,000  11262,080   1I  258,240   1I 266,880  II  63,792   1I
  Total           778,865      3,218,569     4,013,728     6,464,640 I 2,150,400     3,245,760    4,704,000I  3,628.016

                                                   64




Annex E.Key Targets andIndicatorsSupported Under
Populationand AIDS Project

                                           Population Strategy:

                          Baseline    Target
                                      (1999)       Actual                             Comments

Reduction of annual      2.4%       2%           3.1%
rate ofpopulation                                (2004)83
growth
Advance the onset o f    6ha4       n.d.         6.6"
fertility decline        (1996/97)
Increaseinmodem          1% (1990)  10%          2.0%86        At the time o fthe MTRthis goal was acknowledged to
                                    (2000)       (2000)        be unattainable and it was agreedto review andrevise
                                                               the target through analytic work with UNFPA
                                                               assistance. Consultantswere hired, but the task was
                                                               never completed.
Enhanced knowledge       n.a.       n.d..        n.a.          Not evaluated.
o fthe population o fthe
linkbetween
population and
development
Increasedparticipation   n.a.      n.d.          n.a.          Not evaluated. Field visits/interviews indicate: income
ofwomen in                                                     generationfor women has enhancedfamily wellbeing
development activities.                                        through investmentsinhealth and education and
                                                               application o f information about HIV/AIDS prevention.
Validation o f social    n.a.      n.d.          n.a.          Not evaluated. Women beneficiaries o fmicrofinance
status of women                                                who were interviewed reported enhancedsocial status
                                                               due to their success instartingigrowing viable economic
                                                               activities.
Strengthened and         n.a.      n.d.          n.a.          Not evaluatednot a goal o f this project. Bank
extended MCH/family                                            assistance to this program objective was supported
well-being at all levels                                       primarilythrough the parallel Health andSafe
ofthe health system                                            Motherhoodproject. The Population and AIDS project
                                                               didcontribute to this objective byprocuring
                                                               contraceptives for FP services for the public health
                                                               system.




83. Directorateof Coordinationof Population-RelatedActivities, Ministryof Planning, Developmentand
Cooperation(MPDC),2004 data.
84. DHS 1996197.
85. Governmentof ChadNVorld Bank CountryStatus Report2003.
86. UNICEF2001.

                                                       65




                                    HlVlAlDS MediumTerm for 1995-1999
                                          Baseline           Target (1999)          Actual                  Comments
 A. PREVENTION:TO SLOW THE SPREAD OFHIVINFECTIONBY PROMOTINGBEHAVIORCHANGE

 % populationage 15-49who can
 cite two acceptableways to protect                                         of women 20-49years
 themselves from HIV infection                                              of age (2000)~~
                                                        I



 % persons age 15-49knowing          n.a.                n.d.               n.a.
where they can buy a condom
% persons 15-49able to obtainor                          n.d.               n.a.                     Condoms are widely
buy a condom at an affordableprice                                                                   availablein the country
                                                                                                     thanksto a successful
                                                                                                     social marketing
                                                                                                     programwith
                                                                                                     decentralizedbranches,
                                                                                                     and over 1000pointsof
                                                                                                     sale. The cost of one
                                                                                                     condoms is about
                                                                                                     US$0.02.
% personsage 15-49considered         1.6%of women        100%(project       In urbanareas: virtually
"high risk"reportinguse of a         3ge 15-49and        projectedto       all professional
condom duringtheir lastsexual        5.3% of men age     change behaviorof prostitutesand 70
encounter                            15-59reporting      415,000 sexually  percentof clandestine
                                     sexual relationsw/  active personsat  prostitutes;in rural
                                     ion-re ular         high risk)        areas: 60 percent of
                                     iartner98                             professionalsand 50
                                                                           percentof clandestine
                                                                           prostitutesreportthat
                                                                           they use condoms
                                                                           regularlywith their
                                                                           clients (2001)~~


% sexuallyactive personsage 15-     n.a                  n.d.              n.a.
49 reportingat least one incidentof
casualsex duringthe last 12
months
   4. STDs
)/o of total numberof diagnosed STD                      76%               n.a.
zses that are managedaccording
io MoH norms
z/o pregnantwomen age 15-24years                         1.d.              5.56%w
esting positivefor syphilis of all
hose testedfor syphilis
K men age 15-49 reportingan         n.a.                 1.d.              n.a.
?pisodeof urethritisduring the last
12months


6 of pregnantwomen age 15-24        2.1% (N'Djamena      1.d.              13.87%'~
rears testedfor HIV in prenatal     study)
:linics that are sero-positive


87 .UNICEF2001.
88. 1996197 DHS.
89. PPLS2001.
90. 1999sentinelsurveillancedata for: Abeche, Bol, Bongor, Moundou,N'djamena, Sarh.

                                                    66




                                         Baseline        Target (1999)             Actual           Comments


 B. Mitigation
 Of total estimated numberof people  36%              60%                 ma.
 livingwith AIDS, % beingtreatedby   (1993)
 healthservices                                       (12,000 AIDS
                                                      patientsprojected
                                                      to benefitunderthe
                                                      project)
 Of total estimated numberof people  n.a.             30%                 More than 30,000
 livingwith AIDS, % being cared for                   (21,000 families    families benefitedfrom
at the community levelby an NGO                       projectedto benefit community-based
or CBO                                                under the project)  social-medical
                                                                          assistanceto mitigate
                                                                          impactof HIV/AIDS.g3
% total estimated orphans benefiting n.a.             n.d.                n.a.
from program interventionsduring
the last 12months                                     (45,000 orphans
                                                      projectedto benefit
                                                      under the project)




91. 1999 sentinelsurveillancedata for: Abeche, Bol, Bongor, Moundou, N'djamena,Sarh.
92. 2002 sentinelsurveillancedata for: Abeche, Bol, Bongor, Moundou,N'djamena, Sarh.
93. Final EvaluationReport(Ngarmig-Nig2002).

                                             67


Annex F.Borrower's Comments


            This is an officialtranslation of the originaldocument inFrench



Republic o f Chad
Presidency o f the Republic
Office of the Prime Minister
MinistryofPlanning, Development andCooperation
General Secretariat

Document No. 1.....IMPDCISGIOS

                               The Minister of Planning,Development and Cooperation

                              N'Djamena
                              January 13,2005

Mr.AlainBarbu
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Group
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Facsimile No. +1-202-522-3 123

Subject:    Observations on the Population and Aids ControlProject (PPLS1) Performance
            Assessment Report

Sir,

        IhavethehonortotransmitherewithourobservationsonPPLS1forincorporationinthe
final version of the report.

Yours truly,

(signed)

(Minister's seal)

MahamatAli HASSAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          68


                                                                                                                                                                             Borrower Comments

                                      The Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) on the Population and Aids Control
        Project 1(PPLSI) i s relevant and thorough. It bringsinto reliefthe efforts made under the project
         and shows that it was well managed and implemented.

                                      Ona number o f points regarding the effectiveness o f PPLS1, the PPARconcurs with the
        two earlier assessments, conducted separately by IDA and the national agencies, concluding that
        the project was relevant and that overall the results were satisfactory, considering that the project
        broke new ground in two complex areas and that Chad's sociocultural environment i s difficult.
        The fact that PPLS2 builton the achievements and lessons o f PPLSl corroborates that finding.

                                     Two considerable achievements of PPLS1, the Social Marketing Association o f Chad
        (AMASOT) andthe SocialFund(FOSAP) have become fully-fledged institutions andplay an
       even more active role under PPLS2. The assessment o f the components o f the NationalProgram
       o f AIDS and Sexually Transmitted InfectionsControl (PNLSAST), Project Social MarketingUnit
       (MASACOT) andFOSAP - rated satisfactoryto very satisfactory - does not warrant any
       particular comments.

                                     Concerning the population component, the results o f which were unsatisfactory according
       to the assessment, the report itself admits that, when the project was mounted, no reliable data
       were available inthat area and consequently the goals set were unrealistic.

                                    The assessment concerning that 'component should therefore be qualified, in the light o f
       the tangible outcomes achieved by PPLS1 under three sub-projects, namely, building the
      capacities o f the Population Division, providing support for the dissemination o f the Population
      Policy Declaration, and carrying out surveys andresearch.

                                   Furthermore, it should be mentioned that fertility and population growth can decline only
      as a result o f a long-term process (as indicated in Annex C), for which PPLSl has laid the
      groundwork. Accordingly, fertility could not be expected to start waning within five years.

                                                                                                                                                                       DetailedObservations

     Acronyms and abbreviations

I                                                                                                  -.


  ...............
     cwm: 1ii...........                                                                                "                                                        "  ................. ...............................................................                                                                           ^                                 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......................................... -
      CERPOD                                                                Center for Researchon Population and Development
                                                                            (Centre de Recherche sur la P
                                                                                          _..              "  ....
                                         ^                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          "
                                                                                        ~                                                                                                                                                       ....."......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tionpour le D6veloppement)                                       ................... ............................                    .-.....            ...........
                                                                          National PopulationandHumanResources Commission

                                ................................
     CRP:                                                          1j ....................
                                                                           (CommissionNationalede la Population et des RessourcesHumaines)
                                                                                            "......................... "         .............._                               "                                         ..................................  "
                                                                          Regional Population Commission, beginning in 2002. For earlier periods
                                                                   1!! (and therefore at the time o f PPLSI, one should refer to the
                                                                          Prefectural Commission on Population and Human Resources (Commission
                                                                         Prefectorale de la Population et des Ressources Humaines or CPPRH)
                                                                                                                                                                        .......................... ."..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                     _                                                     ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ""  ..... ........................................  ........._..............                   ..
'   HCPRH:                                                        , High Councilmmittee on Population and Human Resources (Haut

i.................                                                L"
   PAIP:                                                          1i    ...........................................................de......la Population et desRessourcesHumaines)
                                                                          Conveilmite'     "                                           " "                         ..                             .-.                                                          ".. ............ "                                             ......................................         "
                                                                         Program for plority Actions and Investments (Programme d'Action et
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 en matigre de Population)
i
...............................   " ...............................i ..................
                                           "                             d'Investissementpriorituire...............
                                                                                                    _                                        " ......................                                    "                                                                                                                                                     _.............

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        69


           Summary

           P. ix, secondparagraph:The law o f 1920, not 1965.

           Outputs andOutcomesby Objective

          The PPLS1 project provided considerable support to the laboratoqdtransfusion safety unit by
          procuring reagents for all qualified national health-facilities to prevent contamination by blood
          route, particularly through bloodtransfusion.
                                                                             ,
                                   ....................................................................................................                           " .............................                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
          4.4                                                                 I      "(c) the preparationof' 14monographs ... five detailed analysesand seven
                                                                              ::
                                                                              .............................
                                                                                    regional analyses ofDHSdata.
                                                                                       "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .....................................................
          4.6                                                                        "15 integratedprojects (.,.) were implementedby the 15 CPPRH", not 14

         ..........................................................          j      CRPRH.
                                                                            $.   ..                                                                                      .............................................. ............................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "
         4.12                                                                j       "the actualrate o fpopulation growth i s about" 3.1 percent, not 2.8 percent.
         ........................................................             ......................................
                                                                                         "                                                                               ........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                    "                                                           " ...............................................................................................................................
         Footnote 41                                                                Source: Directorate o f Coordination ofPopulation-Related Activities,
                                                                            i Ministry o fPlanning, Development and Cooperation (MPDC),
        ........................................................ ................
         p. 18                                                              .     PNLS/STI component: It would also be appropriate to stress PPLSl support
         4.17                                                                      to the STI unit o f PNLSBTI for training medical staff (over 2,000) in STI
        ..                                                                  ''                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  not
                                                                            ! Department o fPopulation, MoPC, 2004.        _ ............................................                                                                               ......................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                            ~                 "                         "                                                                                                                               "




                                                 ......................                                                                and
                                                                            I
                                                                            !      treatment"........... drafting an STItreatment guidebook.    "_"                                                                                                                                                 "                                      ""                                                                                            ..................."..................
                                                                           'i!     Regarding HIV infection diagnosis, considerable efforts were made under
                                                                                  PPLSl through the national network to upgrade the technical capacities of
                                                                                  the laboratories and provide them with AIDS detection reagents and
                                                                                  laboratory supplies. A unit was also set up in the laboratory o f the National

                                                                           1      General Referral Hospital (HGRN) in N'Djamena to function as a referral
        ........................................................................................................................................... ............
                                                                           , center for HIVIAIDSdiagnosis.
                                                                           ii! Enzyme-Linked Immuno-Sorbent Assay (ELISA) Chains were set up in the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "  .......................



                                                                           ii count instrument was installed in the N'Djamena laboratory.
                                                                                 hospitals o f NDjamena, Bongor, Moundou, Sarh and Abeche. A CD4


                                                                              ......................................................................
        p. 25                                                              j     Figure 9 - The caption should read "NDjamena, Moundou", not "Ndjamona,                                                                    ...                                                                                                                                                                   ..........................................................................

        4.30        .................................................      1.....................................
                                                                                 Maoundou".                                                                             .................................................         ................................................
        ~                                                                  i                                        "                                                                                                           "                                                        "  ._............................................                                                          ........................................................................

        BackgroundandContext
        pp. 1-3
............................
i 1.2                                                                                                                                                                  .......... ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                          ,     - "and half of the population living on less than 50 cents per day": Givethe
                                                                          1
                                                                          I -                  actual figure.
                                                                                                "Child mortality was estimated at 222 per thousand for" 19932003, not
                                                                          j                    2002.
                                                                          1     - The source of the maternal mortality figure i s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the 1996/1997




;...................................
I 1.6                                                                    j*. .Replace "1965 law"..........
                                                                                            .....................................................................                        with "1920 law".
                                                                                                                                                                                                  "..............................
! 1.7                                            ....................... Ii                                                                                                                                                                "                 "                    ...............................                      "                        ............................................................................                                      ...
                                                                                "infant and child mortality were very high (estimated, respectively, at" 132
                                                                               and 222 per thousand in 1993, [translator's note: not "124 and 206 per

......................                                                   j    thousandin 1994".]
                                                                                   ....................................................................................................                                  ............................... -................................................................                .............................................................................................                ....-..................

                                                                                                                                                                                                                70

,...................................................................
;                                                                             '
                                                                              "                                 .                                                                                        " ...................... ............................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "
      1.8                                                                     !I Moreover, a department (by "department" we mean                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "ministry") was
                                                                                    responsible for demographic research and analysis. The units tasked with




........................................................................      1ii1I1that activity were the Directorate o f Statistics and Economic and
                                                                                    Demographic Studies (DSEED)and the Population Division (DP),and both
                                                                                    were accountable exclusively to the Ministryof Planning.
                                                                                    The missiono f the HCPRFI:
                                                                                       (1) To provide population policy orientations.
                                                                                       (2) To adopt recommendationsprepared by the NationalPopulation and
                                                                              ,.... HumanResourcesCommission(CNPM).                                                                          ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

     ImplementationandCosts
     pp. 8-11

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                    "   -........
      3.3                                                                               "The Migration and Urbanization Survey was delayed because UNFPA was
                                                                                                     "^                         ~




                                                                                       unable to provide all o f the funds it had initially committed": The delay was j
                                                                                       also due to the restructuring of CEPROD, which experienced a disruption in
    ..........................................................                         its technical support.                      ...-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "   ..................................................               ._.............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "                                                                                     ......................................
     3.4, last line                                                                    However, inthe meeting of September 7,2001, the HNPRHCNPRHinsisted
                                                                                                                                                                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                        "the Population Unit ... - promoted first to the level o f a division and 1
                                                                                       ~
                                                                                       that the HCPRHshould be chairedby the Heado f State.............
                                                                                        ...........     "                                                               .         1              ~ ............................ ........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I                      "                                                                     "  ...........                                                            "  ....................     ''
     3.6

      .                                                                             ......................
                                                                                       subsequently to the level of'' a full directorate, not "a.....................................department".
                                                                                                                      ..........................................................................................                                                                                    ".l                full                                                                                                   ..
     3.6 and 4.2                                                                       Since this i s an assessment o f PPLS1, reference must be made to the
     ......."...................................................                    Division of Population, not the Department .........................
                                                                                                                                      ...... ....                                                                                                           ..................of Population.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "                     " ...................................................
     3.8                                                                            It should be noted that there were tensions between the last PNLS/IST
                                                                                    coordinator and the assistant, whereas the supervision o f the heads o f the
                                                                                    PNLS/IST technical units (APMS; Laboratory and Transfusion safety;
                                                                                       Epidemiology; Information, Education and Communication (IEC)/Youth
                                                                                       Caravan; etc.) by the technical assistant.....................                                                                                                        worked well................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      " ............ .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "                                                            ...........""- ........  _.                      ....,,."...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~          "                                                                                          ~




     Findingsand essons                                                             I
    p. 30
..........
i 6.3                                        .....              ................
                                                                              i                      ..             ........                                                                                                                                                                                  o f ethnic tensions": This 1       .....                                                                                   ..
                                                                              ~         "Limiting family size was also unrealistic in light......................................
                                                                                                                          "                                                                                       "  .....................-...........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1."                                    ~                                 "                                      "                                                                                   _"




                                                                              1        affirmation i s baseless, because it i s not verifiable. Deleting it would be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
ii
i...............................................................        ......,.......... ....................
                                                                              , judicious.    _                                                                                                                ........                                   -........                                                                ..."...............................         ............                            .................           .....1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       !
                                                                                            ~                  I                                                          "                                  "                         "                               "                                   "                                                                 "                  ~                    "                           "
     6.21                                                                     ,     Twenty four (24) indicators, not 18, were definitively adopted inthe project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I


L ...          ...................................................... ....    I monitoring-.and evaluation. plan o f PPLS2.                                ............
                                                                              i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .....i
                                                                                                                                                        ~                                                                                                                         "                                                                                                                                                              ~




    Miscellaneous

    InanassessmentofPPLS1,reference mustbemadeto the DivisionofPopulation,not to a
    Department or Directorate of Population.
1. p. 47-                                                                                                     "
                                                                                                              ...                                                                                                                                        "                                                                    .                              ..........................................     "                                      ....
11
$
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     II
....E:...!!!.                                                                 ..... Bongor~eP.~"ment..of.,MaYo.-Boneye/Regionof"Ma~o-.~ebb~..                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Est                                 "
    Footnote 70                                                              II Moundodllepartment of Lake
                                                                             i                             .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     )
                                                                                                       I  ~      *"                                                  " "
                                                                                                                                                                       ....                                WeyRegion of Logone Occidental....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ....................                                                                                                                                 ........                    ....."...."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~                          ~                       *                 X."                                                                                   ~      "




                                                                             /
i                 '                                                                    'I     (d) population policy implementation": "population policy" is correct,
                                                                                       "politique dtmographique" inthe Frenchi s incorrect.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11

