Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2692 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Population and AIDS Control Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 14, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2692 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 14, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) 
a grant (the KfW Grant) in an amount equivalent to about DM7,000,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW 
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and KfW;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ASTBEF" means the Association Tchadienne du Bien-Etre Familial, a 
non-governmental organization established under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
"CERPOD" means the Centre d'Etudes et de Recherche sur la Population pour 
le Developpement, a multilateral Sahelian research institute;
(c)
"CFA Francs" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(d)
"CNLS" means the Borrower's Comite National de Lutte contre le SIDA, the 
overall coordinator of the Borrower's AIDS control program;
(e)
"CNPRH" means Commission Nationale pour la Population et les Resources 
Humaines, the inter-ministerial commission on population established by the Borrower 
to monitor the overall process of developing, implementing and evaluating its 
population policy;
(f)
"CTLS" means the Commission Technique pour la Lutte contre le SIDA, the 
Borrower's technical advisory group to support the CNLS;
(g)
"DPP" means the Borrower's Declaration of Population Policy, dated July 
22, 1994;
(h)
"DSIS" means MOPH's division responsible for the Borrower's health 
information system;
(i)
"FOSAP" means the Fonds de Soutien aux Activites en matiere de la 
Population, established pursuant to the FOSAP Decree for purposes of implementing Part 
D of the Project;
(j)
"FOSAP Decree" means the Borrower's Decree No. 250/PR/MPC/1994 creating 
FOSAP;
(k)
"HIV/AIDS/STDs" means the Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired 
Immunodeficiency Syndrome/Sexually Transmitted Diseases;
(l)
"IEC" means information, education and communication activities;
 
(m)
"MOPC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and Cooperation;
 
(n)
"MOPH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health; 
 
(o)
"PCT" means the Project Coordination Team located in MOPC;
 
(p)
"PNLS" means the Borrower's Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA, 
the MOPH unit responsible for implementing the Borrower's AIDS control activities;
(q)
"Population Division" means the Division of Population of the Directorate 
of Planning at MOPC established by the Borrower, inter alia, to assist CNPRH and to 
act as its secretariat;
(r)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to letter agreements dated April 
8, 1994 and March 6, 1995, between the Borrower and the Association; and
Page  3
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR13,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
Page  4
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, commencing April 15, 2005 and ending October 15, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2014 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and public health practices, and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall operate the PCT under terms of reference and with 
staffing satisfactory to the Association. The PCT shall include the following staff, 
each with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association: (i) a project 
coordinator, (ii) a project administrator responsible for
procurement, (iii) an accountant, and (iv) an administrator for the FOSAP. The 
Borrower shall ensure that no such staff of the PCT is replaced at any time without 
the prior written consent of the Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, continue to maintain 
the Population Division with functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association, 
including a division head, a demographer, a statistician and a sociologist, each with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. The Borrower shall 
ensure that no such staff of the Population Division is replaced at any time without 
the prior written consent of the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For each fiscal year beginning before the Closing Date, the 
Page  5
Borrower: (a) shall adopt an annual budget for MOPH, and any other ministries involved 
in AIDS control activities which shall include a specific budgetary item for AIDS 
control activities; and (b) shall thereafter give timely effect to such budget.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) transmit to the Association, each April 
and October, semiannual progress reports regarding implementation of the Project; and 
(b) carry out, jointly with the Association, annual reviews during the last quarter of 
each year (other than 1997, the year of the mid-term review referred to in Section 
3.05 of this Agreement) regarding the progress made in carrying out the Project, 
including a review of progress reports, annual work programs, and budgets for the next 
year.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, 
during the last quarter of 1997, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project. The review shall cover, inter alia: (i) progress reports, annual work 
programs, and budgets for the next year, (ii) training provided under the Project, 
(iii) procurement under the Project, and (iv) the status of Project monitoring 
indicators agreed upon with the Association.
(b)
PCT shall transmit to the Association, at least 45 days prior to the 
mid-term review described in paragraph (a) above, a report, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Association, describing the status of the items listed in such 
paragraph and of Project implementation generally. In this connection, PCT shall 
employ independent auditors, satisfactory to the Association, to conduct technical and 
financial audits of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association.
(c)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action plan, 
acceptable to the Association, to deal with deficiencies, if any, in Project 
implementation identified during the review, and shall thereafter implement such 
action plan.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
Page  6
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the KfW Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by December 
31, 1995, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(b)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity
thereof; and 
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform 
any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  7
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have entered into an agreement, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, with CERPOD pursuant to which CERPOD shall support 
and strengthen the operations of the Population Division;
(b)
the Borrower shall have recruited a specialist in epidemiology and 
program management, with qualifications and experience and under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower shall have entered into an agreement, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, with ASTBEF and with a social marketing firm, 
satisfactory to the Association, regarding the execution of Part C of the Project; 
(d)
the Borrower shall have prepared bid documents, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the goods and services scheduled to be procured during the first two 
years of the Project;
(e)
the Borrower shall have established the PCT in accordance with Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, and the project coordinator and other key professional 
staff listed in Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, each with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association, shall have taken up their positions within 
PCT;
(f)
PCT shall have in place an operational accounting and financial 
management system satisfactory to the Association; and
(g)
the Borrower shall have retained the services of an independent auditor, 
satisfactory to the Association, under a multi-year contract with terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Cooperation of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
BP 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLAN
5329 KD
N'Djamena
Page  8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Saleh Hamat
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Stephen Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Goods:                                        100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
    (a) Contraceptives        2,400,000           90% of local
                                                  expenditures
    (b) Other Items             500,000
(2) Rehabilitation               10,000           90%
    of Offices
(3) Consultants'              1,700,000           100%
    Services
(4) Training                    700,000           100%
Page  9
(5) Studies                   2,700,000           100%
(6) FOSAP Grants              2,700,000           100% of amounts
                                                  disbursed
(7) Incremental               1,500,000           90% for expen-
    Operating Costs                               ditures incurred
                                                  during the first
                                                  three years
                                                  following the
                                                  Effective Date and
                                                  80% thereafter
(8) Refunding of                240,000           Amount due pur-
    Project Preparation                           suant to Section
    Advance                                       2.02 (c) hereof
(9) Unallocated               1,450,000
                              ___________
        TOTAL                13,900,000
                             ============
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures";
(c)
the term "FOSAP Grants" means grants provided under the FOSAP; and
 
(d)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental cost of 
equipment maintenance, vehicle operation and maintenance, office supplies, printing 
expenses, travel allowances, and PCT office space and utilities, incurred by MOPC, 
MOPH, and PCT in carrying out the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in carrying out its 
strategy in population and family planning and in AIDS control including its plan for: 
(i) increasing the use of modern methods of contraception in order to advance the 
onset of fertility decline, and (ii) slowing the spread of HIV by promoting behavioral 
change.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  10
Part A:
Reinforcement of Borrower's Capacity to Carry Out Population Policy
 
1.
Strengthening MOPC's capacity to plan, coordinate and disseminate the Borrower's 
population policies, including increasing the institutional capacity of the Population 
Division, through, inter alia, provision of equipment, training of staff, and 
rehabilitation of offices.
2.
Improving community awareness and implementation of population policies and 
activities through the execution of health information, education and communication 
activities (IEC), and the distribution of contraceptives.
3.
Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to carry out population-related research 
through the implementation of a national strategy to collect and analyze basic 
demographic data and evaluate relevant socio-demographic indicators.
Part B:
Strengthening National Capacity to Contain HIV/AIDS/STDs
 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of PNLS to manage and coordinate the Borrower's 
national AIDS control program and of MOPH to carry out epidemiological surveillance 
and operational research, through, inter alia: (i) the procurement of long-term 
technical assistance regarding epidemiology and program  management, and short-term 
specialist services for annual programming, organization of the national blood safety 
program, and AIDS-related training and research; (ii) training of staff in 
epidemiology, health program management, and health information, education and 
communication activities (IEC); (iii) on-site training and supervision of health 
personnel in the Borrower's regions regarding the operation of MOPH's health 
information system; (iv) annual national workshops reviewing the AIDS control program; 
and (v) provision of vehicles and other logistical and operational support.
2.
Improving MOPH's epidemiological surveillance of HIV/AIDS/STDs through, inter 
alia: (a) the establishment of two additional sentinel sites; and (b) the carrying out 
of (i) prevalence studies of HIV/STD, (ii) knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP) 
studies, and (iii) a study regarding the priority
indicators of prevention (IPP) to assess the impact of the Borrower's initiatives to 
control HIV/AIDS/STDs.
3.
Improving the Borrower's ability to plan health activities through the carrying 
out of operational studies aimed at improving the quality of public health services.
Part C:
Establishment of a Social Marketing Program for the Promotion of Condoms
 
Establishment of a condom social marketing program to be managed in an 
autonomous manner by a social marketing unit under the general direction of ASTBEF and 
in close coordination with PNLS, including: (i) the procurement of specialist services 
in social marketing and auditing; (ii) training, including study of other condom 
social marketing programs and training in IEC and promotional activities; (iii) 
provision and distribution of condoms for sale; (iv) provision of equipment and 
vehicles; (v) the carrying out of market studies and focus group research; (vi) 
promotional and communication activities; and (vii) rehabilitation of office space.
Part D:
Population Activities Support Fund
 
The establishment of a fund (Fonds de Soutien aux Activites en matiere de 
Population -- FOSAP) to provide grant financing for activities and programs that 
support the Borrower's population and AIDS control programs, including:
(a)
the financing of AIDS control activities that will assist in: (i) 
preventing sexual transmission of HIV infections; (ii) reducing the impact of AIDS on 
AIDS patients, families, and orphans; (iii) targeting population and AIDS control 
programs; and (iv) the design and carrying out of a project which will provide 
psycho-social support for persons afflicted with HIV/AIDS and their families; and
(b)
the financing of population-related activities aimed at: (i) expanding 
the delivery of maternal and child health/family planning services beyond public 
health facilities; (ii) innovative IEC activities targeted to specific groups and 
involving channels of communication complementary to public
health channels (e.g., agricultural extension workers, community development workers, 
Page  11
women's associations, rural development cooperatives, and private employers); (iii) 
improving women's income-earning capacities and their socio-economic status; and (iv) 
research regarding the socio-cultural and economic characteristics of the population 
and the acceptability of new contraceptive methods.
*      *      *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior 
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section of this 
Schedule, the Association's prior approval will be required for (i) a first extension 
of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) 
any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, goods shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers 
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chad may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Small items including items for health promotion campaigns, office supplies and 
spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
Page  12
3.
Goods to be financed through FOSAP grants, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$30,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent 
of $4,500,000, may be carried out on the basis of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Minor office rehabilitation works, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $20,000, may be carried out on the basis of price quotations obtained 
from at least three contractors eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, and (ii) the first three contracts regarding goods procured under 
Part C, paragraph 1 of this Schedule,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard 
forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
Page  13
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Overall Project Implementation
1.
(a)
MOPH and MOPC units and directorates shall be responsible for Project 
execution and management as follows: (i) the Population Division shall be responsible 
for Part A of the Project; (ii) PNLS shall be responsible for Part B of the Project; 
(iii) MOPC, assisted by ASTBEF, shall be responsible for Part C of the Project; and 
(iv) the PCT, under the direct supervision of MOPC's Direction Generale, shall be 
responsible for Part D of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01(c) of this 
Agreement, the PCT shall be responsible for the day-to-day coordination of Project 
activities, related administrative and financial matters, and Project monitoring and 
evaluation, and to this end shall operate under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association which, inter alia, shall require the PCT to be responsible for: (i) the 
coordination and preparation of annual work programs and budgets for all components of 
the Project; (ii) the procurement of goods and services and the recruitment of 
consultants; (iii) review of implementation progress reports prepared by the 
coordinators of Project components; (iv) maintenance and consolidation of all Project 
accounts, including the Special Account; (v) preparation of documentation for 
withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit; (vi) ensure the establishment of adequate 
arrangements for the audit of Project accounts and statements of expenditure; (vii) 
the preparation of semiannual and annual progress reports for submission to the 
Association, the Borrower and cofinanciers; (viii) the organization of annual and 
mid-term reviews of project implementation; and (ix) the maintenance of an effective 
dialogue with donors and agencies in the population and health sectors.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the timetable 
and activities matrix set forth in the Multi-year Work Plan and Activities Matrix, 
adopted pursuant to Circular 005/MPC/DG/DPDR/95.
(b)
The Borrower shall operate the CNLS and the CTLS in accordance with 
Decree 089/PR/PMT/MSP/95, and Circular 012/PMT/95, respectively, regarding their 
functions and responsibilities.
(c)
The Borrower shall carry out the radio/television information campaign in 
accordance with the schedule set forth in the agreement regarding the AIDS control 
program, dated January 28, 1995, between MOPH and the Borrower's Ministry of 
Communication.
(d)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PNLS and the DSIS
implement the epidemiological research program set out in
Circular 035/MSP/DG/PNLS/95.
3.
The Borrower shall prepare annual programs, satisfactory to the Association, for 
the training to be carried out under the Project.
Part A of the Project
4.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
agreement with CERPOD referred to in Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement in such a way 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof.
Part B of the Project
5.
In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall carry out the 
studies referred to therein under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
which in the case of the prevalence studies, shall specify target groups.
Page  14
6.
In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall carry out studies, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, regarding: (i) the 
development and adoption of algorithms for the management of STD and AIDS patients; 
(ii) the elaboration of a referral protocol to assist HIV  positive persons and their 
families; (iii) the evaluation of the clinical definition of AIDS; (iv) the 
relationship of HIV and tuberculosis to improve the treatment of tuberculosis among 
HIV positive patients; (v) the accessibility and utilization of health centers and 
district hospitals; and (vi) the socio-economic impact of AIDS at the individual and 
family levels and at the community and macro-economic levels.
Part C of the Project
7.
The Borrower shall operate the social marketing unit responsible for carrying 
out Part C of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
which shall provide, inter alia, for (a) support from ASTBEF and a social marketing 
firm satisfactory to the Association, and (b) the employment of  co-directors, each 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, assisted by the 
following staff, with appropriate qualifications: (i) a director of marketing, (ii) 
regional marketing representatives, (iii) an accountant/MIS specialist, (iv) an IEC 
specialist, (v) an
inventory specialist, and (vi) part-time contracted sales persons.
8.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
agreement with ASTBEF and the social marketing firm referred to in Section 6.01(c) of 
this Agreement in such a way as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any of provision thereof.
Part D of the Project
9.
The Borrower shall operate FOSAP under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include the following requirements:
(a)
grants shall be made to NGOs, associations, private and public 
organizations or individuals, (e.g., pharmacists, physicians and midwives) meeting 
eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
grants may be made to support umbrella resource projects ('projets 
dynamisateurs') selected by the FOSAP in collaboration with either (i) the Population 
Division, for population-related
sub-projects, or (ii) the CTLS and the PNLS, for AIDS control-related sub-projects, in 
accordance with eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Association, which shall take 
into account, inter alia, the prior experience of the sponsor of such 'projet 
dynamisateurs', its success in implementing multi-sectoral projects, and its 
geographical location;
(c)
grants shall not exceed CFAF30,000,000 per beneficiary (except as the 
Association may otherwise agree) or 80% of the total sub-project cost, whichever is 
lower; and
(d)
beneficiaries shall be required to enter into an agreement, in form 
satisfactory to the Association, with FOSAP setting forth their obligations and the 
obligation of FOSAP to make grant funds available in a timely manner; such agreement 
shall require, inter alia, in the case of grants for 'projets dynamisateurs' that the 
sponsor thereof provide guidance to other applicants for FOSAP grants regarding the 
preparation, implementation, and evaluation of their potential sub-projects.
10.
FOSAP shall at all times be operated and administered in accordance with 
regulations and procedural manuals satisfactory to the Association, which shall set 
forth, inter alia, the prescriptions set out in the preceding paragraph of this 
Schedule 4.  The Borrower shall not amend, repeal or otherwise modify the FOSAP Decree 
without the prior written consent of the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  15
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
250,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 
125,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  16
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
