Document of                      FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3355-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
June 8, 1982
This document has a restricted ditbutin and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may aot otherwise be disclosed without Wold Bank authoriatin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS _/
US$1.00                                   Birr 2.07
Birr                                      US$0.483
Birr 1 million                            US$483,000
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDB                     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
CBE                      Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
CFF                     Compensatory Financing Facility
CPSC                    Central Planning Supreme Council
EBCA                    Ethiopian Building Construction Authority
EIC                     Ethiopian Insurance Corporation
ETCA                    Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority
EWRCA                   Ethiopian Water Resources Construction Authority
HASIDA                  Handicrafts and Small Industries Development Agency
HSB                     Housing and Savings Bank
NBE                     National Bank of Ethiopia
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                          3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                                     0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                                       10,000 square meter (sq.m)
1 hectare (ha)                                       2.47 (ac)
1 metric ton (m/ton)                                 2,204 pounds (lbs.)
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
1/ The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian Birr
has been constant from 1974 to the date of this report.



- i -                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (AIDB)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Ethiopia
Beneficiary:       Agricultural and Industrial Develoment Bank (AIDB)
Amount:             SDR 27.0  million (US$30.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:   The Government will relend about US$28.0 million of the
proceeds of the credit to AIDB at 8 percent interest per
annum, and AIDB, in turn, will onlend for subloans at a
minimum of 11 percent interest per annum.   AIDB's
amortization schedules will vary with the type of
subborrowers, but the bulk of the credit proceeds will
be repaid according to an adjustable composite
amortization schedule that will conform substantially to
the aggregate of the amortization schedules for
subloans. The Government will bear the foreign
exchange risk. In addition, about US$2.0 million of the
credit will be made available to AIDB on a grant basis
to finance training, technical assistance, and studies
important for industrial development in Ethiopia.
Project
Description:       The proposed project will provide needed support for
industrial development in Etèiopia and particularly the
Government's efforts to increase production of basic
consumer goods in short supply. The project will
provide part of AIDB's resource requirements for the two
year period from July 1982 to June 1984 for lending to
small, medium and large-scale industrial enterprises,
and include an experimental pilot program to help
small-scale contractors finance their fixed investment
requirements. In addition, the project will strengthen
AIDB and other sector institutions, and promote improved
sector planning and project preparation by providing
funds for training and technical assistance. The
project's employment benefits will be considerable.  It
is estimated that about 960 jobs will be created in
medium and large-scale industrial enterprises and 1100
jobs in small-scale industries. The project faces no
specific risks that are greater than can be expected
with operations of this type, except that unexpected
shortages of domestic or imported supplies could
possibly hamper the ability of industrial enterprises to
carry out investment plans and utilize available
capacity. This, in turn, could adversely affect AIDB's
portfolio, but the risk is considered acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i~i -
Estimated Resource Requirements:
US$ Million
Local      Foreign      Total
Commitments (July 1982 to June 1984):
(i) Medium and Large-scale
Industries                    13.5        34.8        48.3
(ii)  Small-scale Industries             0.4         1.6         2.0
(iii)  Small-scale Contractors                         1.0         1.0
Sub-total                  13.9        37.4        51.3
Training                                      0.1         0.4         0.5
Technical Asistance                           0.2         1.3         1.5
Sub-total                   0.3         1.7         2.0
Total                   14.2        39.1        53.3
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local      Foreign      Total
Medium and Large-scale Industries:
IDA                                  --          25.0        25.0
Internal Cash Generation            13.5           -         13.5
Others to be arranged                 -           9.8         9.8
Sub-total                  13.5         34.8        48.3
Small-scale Industries and Contractors:
IDA                                  0.4          2.6         3.0
Sub-total                   0.4          2.6         3.0
Training and Technical Assistance:
IDA                                  0.3          1.7         2.0
Sub-total                   0.3          1.7         2.0
Total Financing:                    14.2         39.1        53.3
Estimated Disbursements:                 US$ Million
IDA   FY    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Annual:            1.3       5.9      7.2      6.1      4.3    3.8       1.4
Cumulative:        1.3       7.2    14.4    20.5    24.8   28.6         30.0
Staff Appraisal Report:
Report No.2610a-ET, dated May 3, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR THE AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for the equivalent of SDR 27.0 million
(US$30.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the
resource requirements of the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB). About US$28.0 million of the proceeds of the credit will be relent
to AIDB at 8 percent interest per annum. Repayment terms will vary with
the type of subloan (paras.70, 71, and 72). In addition, about US$2.0
million will be passed on to AIDB as a government grant to finance
training, technical assistance, and studies important for industrial
development in Ethiopia.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia in May 1981 and its
report (No. 3552b-ET, Economic Memorandum on Ethiopia) was circulated to
the Executive Directors on December 15, 1981. Its findings are reflected
in the following paragraphs. A summary of social and economic data is
included in Annex I.
Government Structure and Objectives
3.        Since the revolution in 1974, Ethiopia has been ruled by a
Military Administrative Council. A Central Planning Supreme Council,
chaired by the Head of State, and on which government ministers, peasant
associations, urban dwellers and trade unions are represented, is
responsible for the preparation, approval, and oversight of economic plans
and policies. In parallel with this body, a Council of Ministers is
responsible for implementation. The Government's general objectives
emphasize raising the living standard of all Ethiopians, especially the
poor, through central planning and control of the major industries, the
financial system and foreign trade, and through the mobilization of the
mass of the people to increase production. Emphasis is being given to the
provision of free and more widespread education, improved health services
and greater employment opportunities.
Economic and Social Reforms
4.        Since 1974, a number of specific reforms have been introduced in
line with the goals set out above. Of most direct importance to the
majority of Ethiopians was the 1975 land reform, under which all rural land
was made the "collective property of the Ethiopian people" and user rights



- 2 -
of up to ten hectares were allocated to former tenants and to others
personally willing to cultivate the land. Former commercial farms were
either handed over to peasants for individual or collective cultivation, or
retained as state farms. However, state farms account for less than four
percent of cultivated area. By 1979, about 25,000 peasant associations
with seven million members had been formed throughout the secure rural
areas. These associations decide on limited security and judicial matters
and are responsible for land redistribution and the establishment and
management of marketing and producers cooperatives. Representative
associations have been established at wereda, awraja and regional
levels.l/ Few producers cooperatives have been established so far since
the Government has been proceeding cautiously, and wishes compliance to be
voluntary.
5.        In the urban sector all land was nationalized in 1975, and
ownership of houses restricted to one per family with extra houses
nationalized. Urban dwellers associations (kebeles) have been established
to parallel the peasant associations and have been delegated similar
powers. Most large enterprises in the modern sector, including some owned
by Ethiopians, were nationalized during 1975, and are now subject to
centralized policy guidance and investment approval. Under legislation
introduced in 1979, a large part of public enterprise profits are also
reallocated centrally. The banks and financial institutions now function
as subsidiaries of the National Bank of Ethiopia. The private sector
retains a role in the Ethiopian economy, notably in construction, peasant
agriculture, trade and small-scale manufacturing. Cooperative enterprises
are being encouraged in all sectors where private ownership is dominant.
Economic Background
6.        The reforms took place against a background of desperate poverty
and backwardness. Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per capita GNP of
about US$140 in 1980, is one of the least developed countries in the
world. The population, estimated at about 31.5 million in 1980, and
growing at about 2.5 percent annually, is predominantly rural (about 85
percent). The literacy rate in Ethiopia has risen in recent years
primarily as a result of a literacy drive, but some 85 percent of the adult
population remain illiterate. There is one physician for about every
75,000 people and only about 38 percent of the children of primary school
age are enrolled. About two percent of the rural population and a third of
the urban population have reasonable access to a safe water supply. In
many parts of the country soils have become seriously depleted as
population pressure has forced people to cultivate ecologically unsuitable
land. As a result, many such areas have faced periodic drought and food
shortages, the severity of which has been increasing over time. The lack
of transport is such that only one quarter of the population is within one
day's round trip on foot from an all-weather road. This low level of
development itself leads to low savings,investment and growth.
7.        Ethiopia's natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and
potash; there has been considerable petroleum exploration in the past.
1/ Ethiopia is divided administratively into 15 regions (including
Addis Ababa), 102 awrajas (provinces), and 586 weredas (districts).



- 3 -
However, none of these minerals has been exploited on a large scale. There
are prospects for the exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's
main potential lies in agriculture, for which the natural conditions of
many areas are favorable. At present, around 50 percent of GDP originates
in agriculture, and most industry is also agriculture-based. Compared with
other countries at similar stages of development, Ethiopia has a relatively
skilled and trained work force, but manpower shortages remain a constraint
on development.
Economic Developments up to 1978
8.        From fiscal year 1973/74 to 1977/78, GDP grew at less than 0.5
percent per annum in real terms. This low growth rate reflected security
problems, the uncertainties, dislocations and resistance which accompanied
the economic reforms, and the ensuing difficulties in internal marketing
and distribution. The turmoil in Eritrea and the Ogaden during 1977/78
caused the destruction of facilities, the dislocation of transport and
communications and the diversion of resources from economic development.
Although agricultural production was maintained, the structure of
production shifted away from export crops towards food grains, and marketed
production probably declined. In the industrial sector, the closure of
factories in Eritrea, which formerly accounted for about one-third of
industrial production, caused a fall in output. Production was also
constrained by shortages of raw materials and spare parts, machinery
breakdowns, high managerial turnover, labor disputes and negligible new
investment. Construction activity declined. Inflation was rapid, with
consumer prices rising at an average rate of 20 percent per annum through
the three years ending mid-1978.
9.        These difficulties were also reflected in Ethiopia's external
transactions. Export earnings from coffee were maintained in spite of a
decline in volume largely because of the price boom in 1976/77. However,
the value of other exports declined, with the result that coffee accounted
for three-quarters of total export earnings in 1977/78. Imports on the
other hand grew rapidly, at about 21 percent per annum in value terms since
1973/74.  However, much of this increase was attributable to drought relief
and other unspecified items, probably including military imports. The
resulting deterioration in the resource balance was financed up to and
including 1976/77 by external assistance, either in the form of transfers
or of net inflows of public capital.  In 1977/78, the capital inflow was
reduced, and the deficit was financed largely by heavy recourse to foreign
exchange reserves, which were drawn down from the equivalent of one year's
supply of imports to about five months.
10.       The role of the central Government and the public sector
increased significantly. Central Government expenditure, which averaged 12
percent of GDP in the early seventies, reached 22 percent of GDP in
1977/78. At the same time, the Government was forced to increase its
reliance on domestic borrowing. The growth in recurrent expenditure was
largely attributable to military needs, which reached 66 percent of total
recurrent outlays in 1977/78. Other current spending was kept under strict
control. Central Government capital spending increased steadily (except in
1977/78, the year of the emergency (para. 8)), with road construction and
agriculture as the main areas of emphasis. In addition, a large part of



- 4 -
the increase in bank credit to the non-central Government sector was
accounted for by public enterprises (especially the state farms).
11.       Modern public sector employment expanded, although comprehensive
information on this is not available. With the shortage of grain in urban
areas and the resulting rise in grain prices, it appears likely that the
rural-urban terms of trade improved and that, as a result, the income of
peasant farmers increased. Correspondingly, urban real wages probably
fell. While the salaries of approximately the top ten percent of public
sector employees were frozen, the Government permitted the wages of lower
paid workers to rise.
The Economic Campaigns
12.       Thus, by mid-1978, a number of serious economic problems had
emerged or intensified. It was against this background that, in September
1978, the Government introduced the first "economic campaign" with the
objectives of: (i) reducing the current food shortages by intensifying
efforts in the organizations dealing with the peasant sector, and by
doubling state farm area; (ii) helping drought-affected highland areas by
strengthening afforestation, rehabilitation and resettlement programs;
(iii) eliminating current shortages of consumer items and certain
construction materials; (iv) improving the efficiency of government
agencies and businesses; and (v) increasing foreign exchange availability
by promoting exports. Physical production targets for each of the key
sectors were to be achieved partly by the reallocation of resources, and
partly by improved discipline and efficiency in the organizations
concerned.
13.       The economic campaigns clearly recognized the priority of the
productive sectors, at least in the short run, and the need to improve
discipline in public sector organizations. The first campaign ran for one
year, ending June 1979 (para. 18). This was followed by two further
campaigns in the fiscal years 1979/80 and 1980/81. The Government is now
considering the ways and means to integrate such campaigns or action
programs into a more comprehensive multi-year planning process. In May
1981, a draft ten-year perspective plan was prepared that is now being
revised.
Recent Economic Developments
14.       Since fiscal year 1977/78, the economy has experienced a
significant revival. During 1978/79 and 1979/80, real GDP grew an
estimated 5.2 percent and 5.6 percent respectively. Contributions to the
total increase of real GDP during this two year period came mainly from
agriculture (about 31 percent), other commodity sectors including
manufacturing (about 31 per cent) and trade, transport and communications
(about 14 percent). Real GDP growth during 1980/81 is provisionally
estimated at about 3.3 percent.   Coffee exports recovered significantly,
from about 58,000 tons in 1977/78 to 86,000 tons in 1978/79, and remained
at approximately that level in 1979/80. This led to more than a five
percent increase in earnings from coffee in 1978/79 and, in 1979/80, to a



- 5 -
further increase of over 16 percent. Non-coffee export earnings,
principally from hides and skins, also saw signficant increases of about 28
percent and 59 percent in each year, respectively. In total, the value of
merchandise exports rose by about 11 percent and 28 percent, while the
value of imports increased by about five percent and 18 percent. Most of
the increases in imports were in fuel, semi-finished goods and industrial
goods. Nevertheless, Ethiopia's terms of trade have deteriorated
considerably since the coffee boom in 1976/77, and the loss of import
capacity in 1980/81 alone is estimated to be about 20 percent of
merchandise exports. Moreover, net disbursements on medium- and long-term
loans have been low by international standards; as a result, Ethiopia had
to draw down its foreign exchange reserves by about US$300 million during
the four-year period ending June 1981. Total net reserves, at about US$81
million in June 1981, were sufficient to finance about 1.4 months' imports.
15.       The recurrent budget has fluctuated between small deficits and
surpluses since 1976/77. Following an upward revision of the progressive
surtax on coffee exports, a cash grant under the EEC's STABEX scheme and
the curtailment of expenditure growth, a recurrent budget surplus of about
US$31 million equivalent was recorded in 1976/77. The budgetary situation,
however, reversed in 1977/78 because of a major increase in expenditure and
a decline in revenue brought on largely by economic dislocations caused by
military conflicts. The recurrent budget deficit reached about US$67
million equivalent. Subsequently, major increases in taxes, coupled with a
reduction in recurrent expenditure, led to a recovery in 1978/79, and a
surplus of about US$45 million was recorded. In 1979/80 and 1980/81,
surpluses were again realized, and amounted to about US$6 million and US$41
million respectively.
16.       During the three years ending 1980/81, annual capital expenditure
increased from a level of about US$161 million equivalent in 1978/79 to
about US$212 million in 1980/81. Thus, the overall budgetary deficit
resulting from the capital expenditure program, as well as from the
fluctuations in the recurrent budget, increased from about 3.0 percent of
GDP in 1978/79 to about 3.9 percent of GDP in 1980/81.
17.       The retail price index for Addis Ababa is one of the rough
indicators of inflation in Ethiopia. Its rate of increase declined
steadily from about 22 per cent in 1976/77 to about 12.5 per cent in
1979/80 and 7 percent in 1980/81. This decline could be attributed to the
general increase of agricultural and industrial commodities over the three
year period and to the restoration of transportation services from Eritrea
as well as to a general improvement in other distribution services.
18.       The economic revival can be attributed to various factors.
First, the return of comparative peace and security in late 1978 permitted
the reallocation of resources, particularly transport, to normal economic
activity. Secondly, several industries in Eritrea were reopened and
resupplied. Thirdly, there were good harvest years in the main
grain-producing areas. Finally, the Government's economic campaigns had a
discernible effect in at least two directions; in giving clear indications
of priorities and allocating resources accordingly, and in greatly



-6-
improving discipline and management in many of the public sector
enterprises. Preliminary indications are that, in the publicly-owned
industrial sector, real output grew by about 35 percent (45 percent was
planned) during the first economic campaign and by about 14 percent during
the second.
19.       It will not be easy to sustain this expansion.  First,
international economic conditions are unfavorable and the terms of trade
are expected to continue to deteriorate at least in the short-to-medium-
term particularly because of low prices for coffee -- Ethiopia's principal
export. Secondly, the low levels of investment during the past few years
is now beginning to constrain further increases in domestic production.
The rapid production increases of the past two years have been largely
attributable to improved utilization of existing capacity. Thirdly,
external assistance commitments are not rising fast enough to support
significant increases in investment or sustain higher import levels (para.
22).
Government Programs
20.       Since 1974, the Government has launched a number of programs
and projects, some of which had been under preparation before the
revolution and then subsequently reoriented to the needs of the poor,
especially in rural areas. In agriculture, the thrust has been to develop
smallholder agriculture, rehabilitate drought-affected areas, and to
develop export and industrial crops. In the manufacturing sector,
increased emphasis has been given to small-scale, cottage and handicraft
industries, and to the production of mass consumer goods. Road
construction has expanded and shifted in emphasis towards rural roads. A
frame plan for education covering the period 1976 to 1989 is being
implemented and emphasizes primary and non-formal eduation with increased
cultural, economic and social relevance. Enrollments at all levels have
been increasing more rapidly than before, especially in those rural areas
which were relatively under-provided with facilities. Rural health and
water supply programs are being expanded, and the Government has been
preparing programs to improve urban housing and services, especially for
low-income groups. In mid-1979, the Government launched a nationwide
literacy campaign. Not least, the Government has improved and expanded its
relief operations.
21.       The formation and mobilization of so many peasant associations
and kebeles over a short period (paras. 4 and 5) is a less tangible
achievement but one which may be of great long-run significance. These
organizations provide a basis upon which the Government can build and
accelerate its development effort, with emphasis on the poorest social
groups. It is true that the peasant associations and kebeles will need
additional support to enable them to carry out some of their tasks, such as
land redistribution, the establishment of cooperative farms and trading
activity. Nevertheless, some of their potential is already being realized;
they are playing a significant role in the construction of primary schools,
training centers, clinics, and rural roads, in reafforestation and
conservation activity, and in the organization of literacy campaigns and
other self-help projects.



-7-
External Assistance
22.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no traditional
source of technical and financial assistance. Perhaps mainly because of
this, the level of capital inflows to Ethiopia in recent years has been
very low. In 1979, for example, disbursements of net official development
assistance to Ethiopia amounted to less than US$6 equivalent per capita,
compared with receipts of over US$20 per capita for low income countries
taken together. Ethiopia, however, is in need of substantial resource
transfers to support investments that will enable a reasonable rate of
growth to be achieved, particularly in view of the country's poverty, low
level of savings and weak balance of payments position. Local cost
financing should therefore be at a high level. Within the limits imposed
by its perceived security needs over the past few years, the Government has
directed available resources towards economic and social development
(paras. 10 and 20); it has restrained salaries, squeezed the import of
non-essentials and increased taxes significantly to contribute to security
and developmental needs.
23.       Excluding military debt service, for which no information is
available, the ratio of Ethiopia's debt service to export earnings has
remained low (about 5.0 percent in 1979/80) because of the relatively low
level of external loan commitments in recent years, and the tendency of
some donors to shift to support on grant terms. Total debt outstanding and
disbursed was about US$785 million at June 30, 1981. The Bank Group was
for some years the largest source of loans and credits, but in recent
years, the European Economic Community, the African Development Bank, the
Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic and Czechoslovakia have
expanded their support, and development assistance is continuing from
Sweden, the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy. U.S. Exim-bank made a
loan in 1979 for aircraft purchases. The IMF has provided Trust Fund loans
and assistance under the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF). By July
1981, Ethiopia's net borrowings under the Trust Fund stood at about US$29.8
million equivalent and drawings under the CFF stood at about US$61
million. In addition, a stand-by arrangement for Ethiopia in an amount
equivalent to SDR 67.5 million was approved by the IMF in May 1981. This
standby is supporting an 18-month program ending in June 1982, to sustain a
reasonable rate of economic growth, strengthen overall fiscal performance
and help improve the balance of payments in the medium-term. To date the
performance under this program has been reported to be satisfactory and
Ethiopia has purchased SDR 55.8 million. Italy, Finland, Sweden and Japan
have concluded debt forgiveness arrangements with Ethiopia.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
24.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totals about US$541
million (less cancellations), consisting of 27 IDA credits totalling about
US$417 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about US$109 million, and five IFC
commitments totalling US$15.7 million. Much of the lending (US$228
million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and 1978. Subsequently,
the compensation issue led to an interruption in new lending (para. 30).



Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms only. From 1973 to 1977,
IBRD's and IDA's combined share of gross disbursements of public medium-
and long-term loans increased from 24.1 percent to 67.3 percent. However,
these data tend to exaggerate somewhat the dependence on the Bank, since
they exclude the growing tendency of other donors to give capital
assistance on grant terms. IBRD's share of total public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of December 1981 has been provisionally estimated at about
6 percent, and IDA's at 34 percent. Their shares of total debt service in
1981 have been provisionally estimated at about 19 percent and 6 percent,
respectively.
25.       Bank lending focussed on the construction of trunk roads, power
and telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s, when its emphasis
shifted to agriculture and education. In the past seven years, seven
credits totalling US$147 million have supported agricultural production and
marketing. The most recent one (Cr.1088-ET) is assisting the agricultural
minimum package program, which represents the core of the Government's
development plans for peasant agriculture. In addition, the last three
credits for roads have placed emphasis on meeting agricultural needs.
Since 1973, three credits totalling US$68 million have supported
educational development.
26.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally satisfactory. Security problems affected the
Lower Adiabo Project (Cr. 556), the Rangelands Project (Cr. 603), and the
Drought Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 485). The Lower Adiabo Project made no
progress, and therefore the credit was closed. The latter two, however,
have made reasonable progress. Projects sometimes suffer from management
problems, but those in the highways and education sectors particularly
continue to have strong management. Financial problems have also occurred,
but have been remedied in most cases. In addition, the economic and social
reforms introduced since 1974 (para. 4) necessitated changes in a number of
projects and, together with management and staffing constraints, have
caused implementation delays and postponement of closing dates. Such
changes hindered progress on the Second Livestock Project (Cr. 365), and
the credit was closed. However, the changes have sometimes had beneficial
impacts on the projects in question; for example, the scope of the Coffee
Processing Project (290-ET) was widened to include existing coffee washing
stations taken over under the land reform.
27.       General problems, such as rising labor costs and occasional
shortages of construction materials, have also detracted from efficient
project implementation. However, our experience has been that the
Government and the project managements have often been successful in
efforts to overcome these problems. Ethiopia's overall record on project
implementation is about average for the Eastern Africa Region and has been
improving in recent years. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA
credits, and IFC investments, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
28.       Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has also been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of
disbursements to undisbursed funds in Ethiopia is higher than the Bank-wide



- 9 -
average and the average for the Eastern Africa Region, and has been
increasing in recent years. This trend, however, is largely due to the
interruption in new IDA lending to Ethiopia caused by the compensation
issue, and cannot be attributed to improved performance.
29.       We propose to continue our support for the Government's growth
and equity-oriented objectives and focus particularly on projects which
increase productive capacity in agriculture and industry or provide
essential infrastructure. An urban project that will address the severe
shortage of basic shelter and services in urban areas, particularly in
Addis Ababa, has been appraised. A second coffee processing and marketing
project has also been appraised and will help to increase Ethiopia's
foreign exchange earnings and raise the incomes of smallholder coffee
growers by improving the quality of coffee produced. In addition, a second
road sector credit designed to help strengthen Ethiopia's transport
infrastructure has recently been appraised. A sugar plantation and factory
project is being prepared in order to help meet the large unsatisfied
demand for this basic consumer good and to reduce the need for imports, and
a third power project is being prepared to help develop domestic energy
resources to meet the needs of Ethiopia's growing economy.
Compensation
30.       In early 1975, the Government nationalized enterprises, either
partly or wholly, in which it deemed government ownership or control to be
in the public interest. When doing so, the Government stated that fair
compensation would be paid to former owners. To implement this policy, it
established a Compensation Commission in early 1976 to receive and review
claims, and to negotiate and reach agreement with former owners, but much
time passed with little evident progress being made. Because of this, no
new lending proposals,for Ethiopia were presented to the Board between
April 1978 and December 1980, when a concrete beginning to resolve the
issue was made. To date, the Commission has entered into negotiations with
more than seven claimants, including the largest ones. Settlements have
been reached with two small claimants, a Japanese and an American. Offers
for settlement have been made to a major American claimant and three German
claimants. IFC has been invited to negotiate in June 1982 the acquisition
by the Government of its shares in the Metahara Sugar Company and the
Textile Mills of Dire Dawa. In addition, IFC's partner in Metahara, a
Dutch company having a large claim, has been invited to negotiate, in June
1982, an offer for settlement. We understand also that IFC's partner in
the Textile Mills, a Japanese company, is being invited for negotiations in
June 1982.



- 10 -
PART III. AGRICULTURE, INDUSTRY, CONSTRUCTION AND FINANCE
The Agriculture Sector 2/
31.       Ethiopia is predominantly rural.  Ninety percent of the
population (about 28 million) live in rural areas and about 80 percent of
the total labor force is employed in agriculture. About half of GDP is
contributed by agriculture, and agricultural products comprise over 90
percent of Ethiopia's total exports. Crops account for about 80 percent of
the gross value of agricultural production with livestock and livestock
products accounting for the remainder. Coffee is the single most important
crop; it contributed over half of agricultural GDP and about 68 percent of
export earnings in 1979/80.
32.       About 5.5 million hectares in Ethiopia are being cultivated with
major food crops. Of this area, about 28 percent is planted with teff, 16
percent with barley, 16 percent with maize, 13 percent with sorghum, and 9
percent with wheat. Secondary crops include sugar, cotton, sesame, sisal
and linseed. Livestock plays an important role in most Ethiopian farms,
and the country has the largest national cattle herd in Africa (about 27
million head, or one animal per person). Smallholdings, most of which are
two hectares or less in size, contribute almost 98 percent of crop
production, state farms about two percent, and cooperative farms less than
one percent. The state farms, however, contribute about 20 to 25 percent
of marketed grain output.
33.       During the last decade, total foodgrain production in Ethiopia
has fluctuated from year to year around 5.0 million tons, but has shown no
steadily rising trend. Nevertheless, with increasing urbanization and a
population rising by about 2.5 percent annually, Ethiopia moved after
1975/76 from the status of a net exporter of cereals to a net importer.
The size of the grain deficit and its likely trend are difficult to
estimate but, in 1978/79, imports (including food aid and drought relief)
amounted to about five percent of the country's 1977/78 total foodgrain
production. Ethiopia, however, is still relatively well-endowed with
unexploited agricultural resources and has a wide range of climate and
altitude that permits many diverse crops to be grown, although much of the
land is too arid for rainfed cropping.
34.       The Government attaches paramount importance to agricultural
development, and its primary economic objectives are to attain
self-sufficiency in foodgrains, primarily through increased peasant
production, and to expand and diversify export crop production particularly
by the state farms. Increased smallholder production is to be achieved
2/ Agricultural subprojects will not be financed under the proposed
project, but a brief review of the sector is included here in view of
AIDB's extensive involvement in agriculture.



- 11 -
primarily by increased application of fertilizers, improved seeds,
pesticides, farm implements and planting practices under an agricultural
minimum package program. Support for peasant production is also being
provided through increased construction of small irrigation works and grain
storage facilities. In addition, the farmers are being mobilized to
implement a re-afforestation and soil and water conservation program. The
Association has been assisting the Government to implement key elements of
this strategy, particularly the minimum package program.
35.       In recent years the Government has been streamlining and
strengthening institutions in the agricultural sector. The Ministry of
Agriculture is responsible for smallholder production, soil and water
conservation and forestry activities. It provides farmer extension
services, organizes and assists peasant associations and cooperatives, and
advises and assists farmers on livestock production and protection. The
Ministry of State Farms is responsible for developing and managing state
farms, and the Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development is responsible for
overseeing all aspects of coffee and tea production and exports. The
responsibility for domestic agricultural price regulation, licensing,
market analysis, trade regulation, and improving market infrastructure has
been given to the Ministry of Domestic Trade. Similar functions relating
to foreign markets are vested in the Ministry of Foreign trade. In
addition to these ministries, the Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC)
markets cereals, oilseeds and pulses bought locally to stabilize prices and
to assure proper food distribution, and procures and distributes
fertilizer, seeds and pesticides to peasant farmers under the minimum
package program. The Ethiopian Seed Corporation is responsible for
implementing a national seed multiplication program, and AIDB provides
short and long-term credit to peasant associations, cooperatives and state
farms for production purposes.   In particular, AIDB has been managing
credit arrangements under IDA-assisted agricultural projects.
Medium- and Large-scale Manufacturing Sector 3/
36.       Ethiopia's industrial sector is relatively small and
undeveloped. Medium and large-scale manufacturing accounted for about 5
percent of GDP and 2 percent of export earnings in 1979/80, and employed
only about 100,000 people, or less than one percent of total employment in
Ethiopia. The sector comprises approximately 420 enterprises of which
about 140 are public enterprises. The public enterprises are grouped
under fourteen holding corporations specialized by subsector such as
textiles, foods, and chemicals, and which report to the Ministry of
Industry. The Ministry has primary responsibility for promoting industrial
development and for recommending industrial policy. The public
enterprises, which consist primarily of Ethiopian and foreign-owned firms
that were nationalized in early 1975, account for about 90 percent of value
added and 80 percent of the sector's employment. The majority of the
3, Comprises enterprises having 10 or more employees and assets of
more than US$250,000 equivalent.



- 12 -
enterprises produce basic consumer goods for the domestic market, relying
largely on domestic agricultural inputs. Food processing, textiles and
beverages are the largest subsectors and contribute about 32 percent, 20
percent and 19 percent respectively of the sector's value added. Leather,
wood, paper and tobacco production are also significant, and each
contributes about 5 percent to value added. The enterprises are heavily
concentrated in the regions of Shoa (including Addis Ababa), Eritrea and
Harraghe which account, respectively, for 66 percent, 15 percent and 9
percent of manufacturing employment.
37.       Sector performance over the past twelve years has been mixed.  In
real terms production increased at an impressive rate of about 11 percent
annually between 1968/69 and 1972/73. But the onset of the revolution and
the unrest that followed, combined with the nationalizations and the
diversion of men, equipment and materials to security efforts, led to a
decline in output by about 8 percent per year until 1975/76, when the
decline halted. With the introduction of the annual economic campaigns and
the subsidence of hostilities, and the reopening of existing plants,
production increased by 25 percent in 1978/79 and 13 percent in 1979/80 as
unutilized capacity was put back into service. The public enterprises
performed marginally better than the sector as a whole. Their production
increased by about 5 percent annually between 1975/76, and then jumped by
34 percent in 1978/79 and 14 percent in 1979/80. Nevertheless, total
medium to large-scale manufacturing growth in 1980/81 is estimated at only
about 6 percent, since capacity constraints are being reached in the
textile, tobacco, beverage and food industries due to the low levels of
investment in recent years. In addition, producers of wood, leather and
metal products continue to face raw materials shortages.
38.       The limited data available indicates that the productivity of
both labor and capital has been rising since 1977/78 due largely to the
employment of previously idle plant capacity. Studies on specific
subsectors confirm this improving productivity and also indicate that a
number of Ethiopian enterprises are capable of competing internationally.
One study, for example, indicated that producers of certain types of cloth
in Ethiopia had manufacturing costs comparable to major international
producers.
39.       In the five years prior to the revolution, manufacturing
investment averaged about 16 percent of gross domestic investment, but then
fell precipitously in 1973/74. Net investment probably became negative in
real terms in 1975/76. It remained negative until 1979/80, when a modest
resurgence in the investment level was recorded, particularly by the public
enterprises. Largely reflecting the decline in capital stock, the public
enterprises' real output per net fixed assets increased by an average rate
of 20 percent per annum between 1975/76 and 1978/79. The financial
performance of the fourteen holding corporations was also respectable.
Their worst year was 1977/78, and even then they made, on a consolidated
basis, net profits which yielded a return of 2.7 percent on their equity.
In 1975/76, 1976/77, and 1978/79, the return on equity averaged 12
percent. In 1978/79, all fourteen corporations operated with satisfactory
gross margins averaging 20 percent, but three of them made small net losses
after raw materials shortages forced production cutbacks. On a
consolidated basis, the long-term debt/equity ratio of the public
enterprises was only 0.2/1 in 1978/79, and the total debt/equity ratio was



- 13 -
1.4/1. The public enterprises have been a net contributor to government
revenues. They pay profits taxes and a 5 percent charge on government
equity capital annually. In addition, after an enterprise has accumulated
reserves amounting to 30 percent of capital, it remits all further
surpluses to the Government.
40.       The public enterprises are legally autonomous production and
financial entities, but their holding corporations (para. 36) provide them
with services such as recruitment, training, purchasing and marketing in
return for fees. Neither the corporations nor the enterprises have boards
of directors, and in principle the Minister of Industry is responsible for
their proper management. The Minister appoints the chief executives of the
holding corporations, who in turn appoint the general managers of the
enterprises. One of the Government's main objectives is to direct the
economic decision-making institutions and define their activities based on
national needs and priorities. To help meet this objective, the Government
has been instituting planning systems designed to improve the efficiency of
resource allocation to public enterprises and also of enterprise
performance. Each enterprise prepares investment, production and financial
plans annually which are then reviewed and approved by the Ministry of
Industry and the Ministry of Finance. Investment plans are also reviewed
by concerned local lending institutions if credit is to be extended.
Subsequently, the enterprise plans are consolidated and submitted to the
Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC) for review and approval.
41.        Import licensing mechanisms, tariff structures and excise taxes,
instituted prior to the revolution to protect domestic import substitution
industries, are still in operation. In addition, a system of centralized
foreign exchange rationing for imports has been introduced and serves to
reinforce protection. Centralized allocation procedures are used to
distribute a number of basic goods in short supply, such as textiles,
beverages, and building materials, while other goods are distributed
through commercial channels involving private wholesalers and retailers.
Industrial goods in short supply are also distributed under price controls
and centralized allocation mechanisms. Prices for many industrial goods
are established by a National Price Commission on a cost basis, and have
generally been adequate. The Government has been removing all forms of
subsidies, and therefore full cost pricing is expected to become the norm
for industrial goods. In addition, the Government is preparing a national
wage policy which is expected to define the role that wages are expected to
play as a production incentive.
42.       In its draft ten year Plan, the Government has accorded
industrial development second priority after agriculture. The Government
is still working on the development of a long-term strategy, but it has
established a clear set of objectives together with a strategy for the
short and medium-term. Its basic medium-term objective is to increase
domestic production of basic consumer goods to reduce the present
substantial shortages in order to provide incentives to help stimulate
peasant agricultural production. Essentially this is a continuation of the
import substitution strategy which has been followed in Ethiopia since the
industrialization effort began many years ago. The satisfactory financial
performance of the public enterprises and the near capacity operation of
most industrial plants suggest that this strategy is appropriate. Pending



- 14 -
a more comprehensive study of Ethiopian industry, it is difficult to make
any judgements about specific policy changes needed to further improve
sector performance. Nevertheless, even without immediate policy changes,
we consider that the current capacity constraints, and the limited
dependence on imported inputs by the sector, justify the allocation of
funds for investments, particularly for rehabilitation and expansion. The
Government is still working on the development of a long-term strategy and,
as a complement to the financial assistance for investment, training and
consulting services to be provided under the proposed project, intends to
begin detailed studies this year on the industrial sector in consultation
with the Association. The studies will enable the Association to assist
the Government to better define its industrial strategy and policies, and
also to improve the design of future industrial operations.
43.       The Government sees the public enterprises as the main vehicle
for implementing its medium-term strategy in view of its ability to direct
the activities of the enterprises along the lines desired. Nevertheless,
it is preparing an investment code that should help to clarify the lines of
demarcation between public and private sector activities, and improve the
climate and incentive for private savings and investment.
44.       In view of the large unsatisfied demand for basic manufactured
goods which can be produced locally, good prospects exist for further
substantial growth in industrial output and employment over the next few
years provided the necessary investments are made to expand or construct
new capacity. The key constraints to this growth are skilled manpower
shortages, particularly of engineers and technicians, and foreign exchange
availability. The Government is addressing the manpower problem through
increased technical training, including overseas training of higher-level
technical specialists, and increased use of expatriate expertise. The
extent to which foreign exchange availability will constrain investment,
however, will depend in large measure on the level of external assistance
inflows. The proposed project will provide early support to help alleviate
these constraints (para 69).
45.       The Bank Group has provided only little assistance to medium and
large-scale manufacturing in Ethiopia. In 1950, the Bank made a loan
(No.32-ET) of US$2.0 million to Ethiopia to finance the Government's share
capital contribution to the then new Development Bank of Ethiopia (DBE). A
second loan (No. 301-ET) of US$2.0 million was made directly to DBE in
1961. Following a rationalization of the country's development banking
institutions and structure, AIDB was established in November 1970 as a
wholly government-owned institution from a merger of two development
finance institutions -- the Development Bank of Ethiopia and the Ethiopian
Investment Corporation. The merger was on the advice of the Bank which
also assisted the Government to implement the merger by seconding a staff
member to a Financial Intermediaries Reorganization Commission. In 1972, a
US$11.0 million credit (No. 304-ET) was provided through AIDB for
agricultural and industrial projects and to strengthen AIDB as a
development finance company. About US$6.7 million of the credit was used
for industrial lending. The credit was fully disbursed in April 1977 and
substantially met the targets that were envisaged at appraisal. Audit
Report No. 2120 concluded that the establishment of AIDB and the Bank
Group's assistance to it was well-directed. Other assistance for
manufacturing has been provided by IFC, which made loan and equity



- 15 -
investments amounting to US$15.8 million in textile, paper and sugar
businesses between 1965 and 1970.
Small-Scale Manufacturing Sector 4/
46.       Small-scale manufacturing including small-scale industries
(SSI's) and handicraft enterprises, is estimated to account for about 6.5
percent of GDP at market prices and to employ about 400,000 people, or
about 3 percent of Ethiopia's labor force. Of this, handicraft enterprises
probably account for about 85 percent of employment and two-thirds of
value-added to GDP. Given its apparent large size, the structure of output
is surprisingly undiversified. Enterprises producing basic consumer goods,
particularly, maize, flour, clothes, furniture and cooking utensils,
predominate. The sector relies heavily on domestic raw materials, and
exports a negligible proportion of its total output. It is labor intensive
-- the average investment per job is below US$4,000 equivalent -- and
average value-added per employee is well above that of the economy as a
whole. About 90 percent of all small enterprises are private sole
proprietorships or partnerships. The remainder are cooperatives -- the
Government's preferred form of ownership -- and are often formed by urban
dwellers associations to meet community needs as well as by craftsmen with
common skills.
47.       The Government is strongly promoting the development of SSI's and
handicrafts enterprises, particularly since they are geographically
scattered and well-placed to meet the growing demand for many consumer
goods, and are less dependent on imported inputs. It established the
Handicrafts and Small Industries Development Agency (HASIDA) to help form
policies, prepare projects, provide technical assistance, and license small
industries, and also to promote, register and supervise artisans
cooperatives. HASIDA has been well-funded by the Government and has
adequately qualified staff. AIDB complements HASIDA's activities by
providing credit for SSI's.  In addition, the Government is preparing a
comprehensive policy proposal for the sector, which should help to pave the
way for further growth by removing uncertainties, particularly with respect
to the role of the private sector. It is expected to include preferential
treatment of SSIs in regard to taxes, interest rates, government
procurement, allocation of raw materials, and also to relax restrictions on
private ownership. The current legislation limits the asset value
(excluding buildings) of privately owned SSIs to about US$250,000
equivalent, and private owners can have only one business. The other
constraint to growth is the availability of investment credit. The
proposed project, which will be the first for the Bank in this sector, will
help to address this need.
The Construction Sector
48.       The construction sector contributes about 4 percent of GDP.  Of
this, about 30 percent is produced by the informal sector (including
self-construction and artisans) mostly as housing in the rural areas. In
4/ Comprises enterprises having less than 10 employees and assets of
less than US$250,000 equivalent.



- 16 -
the formal sector, construction is mainly of buildings and housing (about
60 percent of the total) and roads (about 25 percent). The construction
work is about equally divided between private contractors and government
agencies. Foreign-based contractors have been virtually inactive in
Ethiopia since the revolution, and this has led to a highly concentrated
large-scale private construction industry. Only about eight domestic
contractors are able to qualify for works in excess of US$1.0 million
equivalent, and only five of these would likely qualify for works above
US$7.5 million. There are, however, about 160 small-scale contractors who
are primarily involved in building construction.
49.       Since 1978, the Government has been expanding its own
construction agencies in order to ensure the implementation of its
investment programs. In August 1980, it centralized into three new
agencies -- the Ethiopian Building Construction Authority (EBCA), the
Ethiopian Transport construction Authority (ETCA), and the Ethiopian Water
Resources Construction Authority (EWRCA) -- the activities of a number of
former government agencies. EBCA and ETCA, in particular, are of
substantial size; EBCA now employs more than 3,000 skilled workers. In
September 1981, a new Ministry of Construction was formed to oversee these
three authorities and also sector development. The Government's policies
with respect to private contractors are as yet undefined but, particularly
in view of the large demand for construction work, it is expected that
private contractors will continue to play an important role. The
Government has not limited the size of private contractors, and has
supported the larger ones financially through access to credit facilities.
If properly managed, the larger contractors should not face significant
constraints to expansion. The small-scale contractors, however, are
constrained by several factors, including limited and stringent access to
credit facilities, difficulties in attracting and retaining skilled
manpower, and intermittent shortages of building materials. The
Association is assisting the Government to assess the needs of the
construction sector through economic and sector work.
The Financial Sector
50.       The financial sector was completely nationalized in 1975, and its
institutions were subsequently restructured in 1976 in accordance with new
monetary and banking legislation. In addition to AIDB (para. 44), the
financial sector includes four other key institutions: (i) the National
Bank of Ethiopia (NBE) -- the central bank; (ii) the Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia (CBE) --- the one commercial bank; (iii) the Housing and Savings
Bank (HSB) -- the one home mortgage concern; and (iv) the Ethiopian
Insurance Corporation (EIC) -- the only insurance firm. All of the
institutions have the same nine member Board which is chaired by the
Minister of Finance. NBE, however, has been delegated authority to
supervise the other financial institutions.
51.       In addition to traditional central banking functions, NBE plans
and coordinates all banking activity in Ethiopia and issues guidelines on
credit and foreign exchange allocation and the level of interest rates. It
generally reviews and approves all domestic loans to public institutions
and cooperatives if the amount exceeds 10 percent of the lending bank's
capital, and to private individuals and foreign companies if the amount
exceeds 5 percent of the bank's capital.



- 17 -
52.       CBE has a network of over 140 branches and operates in the
traditional mold -- collecting savings and making advances and short-term
loans. The primary sources of its deposits are private individuals and
enterprises. About half of CBE's loans have been made for domestic trade
and imports, with exports, industry and agriculture accounting for the bulk
of the remainder. Its lending to public enterprises accounts for about 66
percent of its portfolio while the private sector accounts for about 32
percent and cooperatives for about 1 percent. HSB also offers savings
accounts, but has only six branches nationwide. Only a small part of its
resources are therefore derived from private depositors.         The bulk of
its resources is obtained from EIC in the form of time deposits, and also
from a Government Pension Fund and CBE.
53.       The Government views the financial system as an instrument for
implementing its economic policies and priorities. NBE establishes
guidelines annually for the allocation of credit, and currently the public
sector is eligible to receive 70 percent of the total, the private sector
28 percent and cooperatives 2 percent. By economic sectors, agriculture
has been allocated 44 percent, services 37 percent, industry 11 percent and
housing 8 percent. The lending institutions, however, are expected to lend
for projects on the basis of their economic merits.
54.       Market forces, as expressed by interest rates and their
structure, are considered by the Government to have only secondary
importance as a resource mobilization and allocation mechanism. To
mobilize resources, the Government considers the availability of banking
facilities to be a greater incentive to private savers than the level of
interest rates, and accordingly has greatly expanded the number of CBE
branches in recent years. Nevertheless, the Government recognizes that the
bulk of employment, output and incomes in the economy is generated by small
private, individual units of production and distribution, and therefore
there is a need to review its interest rate structure with a view towards
further mobilization of private savings and more efficient private
investment decisions. Nominal deposit rates range from 4 to 6 percent and
commercial lending rates from 9 to 9.5 percent. Seasonal and medium-term
credit under the agricultural minimum package program, however, is
currently 12 percent per annum. By comparison, domestic inflation is
expected to average about 9 to 10 percent annually over the next three
years.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.       A report entitled "Ethiopia:  Staff Appraisal Report of a Line of
Credit to the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)',
No.2610a-ET, dated May 3, 1982, is being distributed separately.
55.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ethiopian Government and
the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB), with assistance
from Bank Group staff. The project was appraised in February 1979, but
processing of the credit was delayed for about two years pending progress
on the compensation issue (para.30). Further updating work was carried out
in May 1981 and negotiations were held in Washington from April 5 to 16,
1982. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Woizero Desta Bishaw, Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Finance, and included Ato Nur Hussein Reja, General
Manager, AIDB.



- 18 -
Background
57.       AIDB, originally established as a wholly government-owned share
company under Ethiopia's 1960 commercial code, was reestablished as a
public corporation under a 1979 proclamation. Its authorized capital,
which has been fully subscribed and paid in by the Government, is about
US$50 million equivalent. AIDB's basic objective is to promote
agricultural and industrial development through short, medium and long-term
loans, and to finance such loans by mobilizing resources in Ethiopia and
abroad. In addition, the statutes as contained in the 1979 proclamation
provide for AIDB to manage funds on behalf of the Government for a fee, to
make equity investments with the approval of the National Bank of Ethiopia
(NBE), to identify and promote projects in cooperation with other agencies,
and to help disseminate technical, managerial and financial knowledge. In
practice, however, AIDB's role has been largely restricted to providing
loans and to managing various funds. Any amendment of the statutes that
materially and adversely affects AIDB's policies, operations or financial
condition would constitute an event of suspension (Section 4.01 (b), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Management and Oranization
58.       AIDB's Board is chaired by the Minister of Finance and includes
the Governor of NBE, six ministers and a key official of the Central
Planning Supreme Council. Because of this high level composition, the
Board meets infrequently, and routine supervision and guidance of AIDB's
management has been delegated to the Governor of NBE. Lending decisions
above US$1.5 million equivalent, which normally require final Board
approval, do not always receive appropriate independent review beyond the
management of AIDB. To improve this situation, a special Board
subcommittee, comprising senior officials with expertise in business and
finance, is being established to fulfill the Board's review function.
59.       AIDB is headed by a competent General Manager who is assisted by
well-functioning loan and management committees which both comprise
AIDB department heads. AIDB is organized into four departments --
Agricultural, Industrial, Finance and Banking, and Controller's -- as well
as five support units -- Legal, Research and Planning, Engineering, Public
Relations, and Administration. It has eight branches outside of Addis
Ababa and approximately 100 professional staff members. The structure is
appropriate for AIDB's role.
60.       AIDB has a sizeable cadre of experienced development bankers
including about twelve loan officers in its industrial department, but is
recruiting additional professional staff for the various departments and
support units in order to better manage the planned expansion of industrial
lending and also to fill existing gaps.   Eight more loan officers will be
employed by December 31,1982 in AIDB's industrial department (Section
2.08(b), draft Project Agreement). The industrial department is also in
particular need of engineering expertise for the appraisal of medium and
large-scale subprojects. In view of a shortage of Ethiopian engineers,



- 19 -
techni al assistance for this purpose will be provided to AIDB under the
project (two man-years at about US$95,000 per year) (Section 2.08(a), draft
Project Agreement). AIDB's staff development programs are also in need of
strengthening, and the proposed project will assist AIDB to expand its
training activities(para 73).
Policies and Procedures
61.       AIDB's investment and financial policies are prudent for a
banking institution but need to be augmented by specific limits on AIDB's
exposure to financial and investment risks. AIDB will therefore adopt
policies limiting: (i) its long-term debt/equity ratio to 4/1; and (ii)
its total financial commitment in each enterprise to the lower of either 20
percent of its net worth or 80 percent of the subproject's total capital
cost (Sections 3.03 and 3.05, draft Project Agreement). AIDB will
exchange views with the Association on any proposed amendments to its
policy statement (Section 2.09, draft Project Agreement). Any amendment of
the policy statement that materially and adversely affects AIDB's policies,
operations or financial condition would constitute an event of suspension
(Section 4.01 (b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
62.       With IDA assistance under Credit 304-ET, AIDB developed  suitable
gidelines for appraisals of medium and large-scale industrial and
agricultural projects. Nevertheless, recent appraisals have not followed
the guidelines fully, particularly in regard to financial and economic
rate of return calculations. Instead, financial analyses have
concentrated on projected cash flows and debt-service capability, and
economic analyses on employment creation and foreign exchange savings.
AIDB, however, will ensure that the guidelines are followed in the future,
and that financial and economic rates of return are calculated in
appraisals of medium and large-scale subprojects (Section 2.02(b) (ii),
draft Project Agreement). AIDB will also use a cut-off economic return of
at least 10 percent as a guideline for project acceptability (Section
2.01(b) draft Project Agreement).  AIDB has also developed suitable and
simplified procedures to enable it to process a large number of small
industry loans in a timely manner, and IDA will assist it to adapt these
procedures for small construction, training and technical assistance
components included in the proposed project (para 69). AIDB's supervision
procedures for medium and large-scale manufacturing projects and for
agricultural projects are also satisfactory, but improved procedures need
to be developed for its small industries portfolio. During implementation
of the proposed project, the Bank will assist AIDB to introduce procedures
for selective but intensive supervision of this portfolio. AIDB's present
procurement and disbursement procedures are satisfactory.
Operations
63.       As of March 31, 1981, about 75 percent of AIDB's loan portfolio
of approximately US$427 million equivalent was in agriculture, 13 percent
in industry, and 12 percent in other sectors. It had no equity
investments. Total cumulative lending amounted to about US$896 million
equivalent, of which agriculture (particularly state farms) accounted for



- 20 -
about 79 percent, industry 13 percent, and other sectors 8 percent. The
agricultural portfolio includes two groups of loans; those approved prior
to the nationalizations in 1975 (old loans), and those approved since then
(new loans). The old loans consisted of about US$8.6 million equivalent
that had been approved for various private commercial farms which were
subsequently nationalized. AIDB is awaiting settlement of compensation
claims in respect of these loans and, in the meantime, has made adequate
provisions against them.
64.       The new agricultural loans consisted largely of short, medium and
long-term loans to state farms (about US$279 million equivalent), the
Agricultural Marketing Corporation, (about US$18.6 million) and peasant
associations and cooperatives (about US$5.4 million). The state farm
portion of its portfolio, in spite of a recent rescheduling, is very weak.
Prior to the rescheduling, over half of the principal outstanding was in
arrears by more than twelve months. The rescheduling reduced the arrears
level to about 9 percent, but indications persist that the arrears were
symptoms of more fundamental operating and financial problems of the state
farms that the rescheduling could not correct. The state farm portfolio,
moreover, does not reflect independent decision-making by AIDB, since all
of AIDB's loans to state farms have been made on the basis of Government
instructions. The Government will therefore assume all risks associated
with this portfolio. More specifically, AIDB will be required to repay
funds borrowed from the Government for the purpose of lending to state
farms only to the extent that the state farms repay their loans to AIDB
(Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement). Apart from its loans
to state farms, AIDB has about US$1.4 million equivalent in loans to
cooperatives that are in arrears and also about US$7.4 million equivalent
to a former government agricultural agency that may not be fully
collectable. AIDB is taking appropriate steps to recover the amounts
outstanding on these loans but will begin writing them off from its
accounts in June 1983. In addition, AIDB has various other agricultural
loans totalling about US$3.5 million equivalent in serious arrears, and is
in the process of either collecting, rescheduling or writing off these
loans.
65.       As of March 31, 1981, AIDB's industrial portfolio comprised loans
totalling about US$8.6 million equivalent that were taken over from the
Ethiopian Investment Corporation (EIC), and also new loans amounting to
about US$46.2 million equivalent that AIDB has made since its inception.
Almost all of the former EIC loans were in arrears by more than twelve
months as of that date. AIDB will therefore implement specific measures
to either collect, reschedule or write-off these loans. In addition, about
12 percent of the principal of the new loans was in arrears. The bulk of
the arrears was accounted for by about ten loans. In particular, arrears
on loans to state and majority state-owned enterprises represented about 3
percent of the principal of those loans, which is considered an acceptable
level. Most of the loans to state enterprises were made for medium and
large-scale projects. The arrears level on AIDB's small industry
portfolio, however, was much more serious. About 35 percent, or about
US$400,000 equivalent, of the principal of its loans to small industries
was in arrears, and the proportion of its portfolio affected was about 43



- 21 -
percent. AIDB is therefore undertaking a case by case review of small
industry loans in arrears and also a vigorous collection effort. Progress
reports will be submitted to the Association quarterly (Section 2.04, draft
Project Agreement). About 6.5 percent, or US$3.3 million equivalent, of
the principal of AIDB's loans in other sectors was in arrears as of March
31, 1981, and the proportion of affected loans was 43 percent. The main
defaulter was the National Transportation Corporation, which is
experiencing financial difficulties. AIDB is rescheduling these loans but
also has recourse to government guarantees.
Financial Position
66.       As of June 30, 1981, AIDB's total assets amounted to about
US$523 million equivalent, of which medium and long-term loans accounted
for about US$343 million. Capital, reserves and surplus totalled US$47
million equivalent. Domestic long-term borrowings stood at about US$244
million and foreign borrowings at US$30 million. Current liabilities
amounted to about US$202 million. AIDB's total debt/equity ratio was
7.7/1, and its long-term debt/equity ratio 5.9/1. The implementation of
the state farm arrangements (para 64) will reduce this latter ratio below
the 4/1 ratio which AIDB will adhere to (para 61). In every year since its
inception, AIDB has earned sufficient income to cover its interest costs
and administrative expenses. Since 1976,however, AIDB's profitability has
been declining as a result of a growth in arrears that accompanied the
rapid increase in the level of its operations. This trend is expected to
be reversed by the proposed improvements to the quality of AIDB's portfolio
(paras. 63 to 65) and to its staffing and procedures.
67.       After excluding state farm loans from AIDB's normal debt (para
64), AIDB's total assets should fall to about US$221 million equivalent as
of June 30, 1982, and subsequently increase steadily to about US$261
million by June 30, 1985. Over this period, AIDB is projected to earn
profits after taxes and provisions yielding an annual return on net worth
averaging about 4.5 percent. Its debt service coverage ratio is expected
to be adequate and its long-term debt/equity ratio should fall to about
3-4/1. The level of provisions is projected to increase from about 5
percent of the portfolio to about 16 percent, which reflects a conservative
approach to possible losses.
Project Objectives and Description
68.       The main objectives of the project are first to assist the
Government in its efforts to expand the capacity of the industrial sector
and particularly to increase production of basic consumer goods, and
secondly to strengthen AIDB's ability to fulfill its crucial role as the
Government's only development finance institution. In addition, the
project will help AIDB to provide financial assistance to small contractors
on a pilot basis, and also assist sector planning, project preparation, and
project implementation.
69.       The proposed IDA credit of US$30.0 million equivalent would be
committed over the two year period from July 1982 to June 1984 and will
finance:



- 22 -
(i) US$25.0 million equivalent or about 52 percent of AIDB's
lending for medium- and large-scale industrial subprojects
having total capital costs exceeding US$250,000 equivalent;
(ii) US$2.0 million or about 100 percent of AIDB's lending for
small-scale industry subprojects costing less than US$250,000
equivalent;
(iii) US$1.0 million for an experimental pilot program to help
small-scale contractors finance their fixed investment
requirements;
(iv) US$0.5 million to assist AIDB and other key sector
institutions to train their staff in project preparation and
appraisal, industrial project management, accounting and finance;
and
(v) US$1.5 million for consulting services and technical
assistance to the manufacturing sector for sector and subsector
studies, feasibility studies, sector planning and manufacturing
operations.
70.       The medium and large scale manufacturing component is expected to
assist mainly public enterprises in subsectors such as food processing,
textiles and building materials. The subprojects to be financed under this
component will be primarily for rehabilitation and expansion of existing
enterprises, but new projects with strong links to existing industries will
also be considered on a selective basis. Subprojects currently under study
or preparation include an oil mill and cake factory, a sorghum and wheat
flour mill, three textile mills to produce yarn and fabric, and a brick
factory. The Government will relend funds for this component to AIDB at 8
percent interest per annum (Section 3.02(a), draft Development Credit
Agreement), and also bear the foreign exchange risk. AIDB will onlend for
subloans at a minimum of 11 percent interest per annum (Section 2.01(d),
draft Project Agreement). With projected domestic inflation of about 9 to
10 percent per annum, this should assure positive real rates of about 2
percent. The Association will require prior approval for all subloans
exceeding US$200,000 equivalent, and the aggregate free limit will be
US$2.0 million equivalent (Section 2.02(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement and 2.02(a), draft Project Agreement). To diversify the use of
this component, no more than US$4.0 million will be used for any one
subproject (Section 2.01(c),draft Project Agreement). AIDB will repay the
funds relent by Government under this component according to an adjustable
composite amortization schedule that will conform substantially to the
aggregate of the amortization schedules of subloans. The individual
amortization schedules will be subject to a maximum of 15 years, including
appropriate grace periods (Section 2.02(d), draft Project Agreement). The
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association
between the Government and AIDB, setting out the relending arrangements for
this and the other project components, will be a condition for
effectiveness (Section 5.02(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 23 -
71.       The line of credit for small-scale industries will assist
primarily private enterprises in traditional activities such as grain
milling and tailoring, as well as new activities such as soap and plastic
button manufacturing. The relending rates and the treatment of exchange
risk will be the same as for the medium and large-scale manufacturing
component (para 70).   Subloans, however, will not require prior IDA
approval, and IDA disbursements will be based on periodic statements of
expenditure from AIDB. AIDB will repay funds relent under this component
according to a fixed schedule of 10 years, including 4 years of grace,
starting from the date of credit effectiveness (Sections 3.02(b), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The individual amortization schedules
will be subject to a maximum of 10 years including appropriate grace
periods (Section 2.02 (d), draft Project Agreement).
72.       The small contractor component will finance equipment purchases
by contractors qualified by the Government for contracts not exceeding
about US$1.2 million equivalent. This component will carry the same terms
and conditions as for small industries (para. 71), except that the
Association will approve all subloans (Section 2.02(a), draft Project
Agreement). In addition, each subborrower will be limited to a maximum
subloan of US$150,000 (Section 2.01(c), draft Project Agreement).
73.       The training component will help AIDB and other institutions
concerned with the development of industry, to upgrade the quality of their
professional staff in project development and management, accounting and
finance. It will finance external training as well as training to be
provided under courses organized locally. Project funds will be passed on
as a grant from Government to AIDB, who will manage this component, and IDA
will approve all training proposals (Section 3.02(c), draft Development
Credit Agreement and Section 2.02(f), draft Project Agreement).
74.       The technical assistance component will help to alleviate the
critical shortage of professional manpower needed for planning and
implementing industrial development.   It will finance consulting services
for general sector and subsector studies, project identification studies,
project feasibility studies, project rehabilitation studies, and any other
studies for which consulting services would be required. It will also
finance direct expatriate technical assistance for institutions involved in
sector planning and project preparation, including AIDB, and for the
operation of enterprises. The component provides for about 150
man-months of technical assistance at an average cost of US$10,000
equivalent per man-month. The principal clients for this component are
expected to be public sector industrial corporations and government
planning agencies. The project funds will be passed on as a grant from
Government to AIDB, who will manage this component, and IDA will approve
all technical assistance proposals (Section 3.02(c), draft Development
Credit Agreement and Section 2.02(f), draft Project Agreement). The
technical assistance personnel employed for the training and technical
assistance components will be satisfactory to the Association (Section
3.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 24 -
Resource Requirements
75.       Recent experience indicates that AIDB usually finances about 50
percent of the capital costs of its medium and large-scale industrial
subprojects, and about 57 percent of the costs of small industry
subprojects. On this basis, AIDB's total resource requirements for the two
year period from July 1982 to June 1984 are estimated to total about
US$53.3 million equivalent, including US$39.4 million in foreign exchange.
The proposed IDA credit of SDR 27.0 million (US$30.0 million equivalent)
will therefore finance about 56 percent of AIDB's resource requirements,
including about 77 percent of its foreign exchange requirements and about 5
percent, or US$700,000, of its local currency requirements. The financing
of some local currency requirements is justified in view of the country's
general economic needs (para. 22). AIDB will finance the remaining local
currency requirements of US$13.5 million equivalent through internal cash
generation. Financing to meet the remaining foreign exchange requirements
has still to be arranged. In this regard, discussions are being carried
out with prospective financiers. If not successful, AIDB's proposed
commitments will be scaled down to accord with available funding.
Reports and Audits
76.       AIDB will submit to the Association quarterly reports on its
operations, portfolio, resources and financial position (Section 2.04,
draft Project Agreement). It will also submit audited accounts within
twelve months of the end of each fiscal year(Section 3.02, draft Project
Agreement). In addition, AIDB will prepare and submit a completion report
at the end of the project (Section 4.01(c), draft Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
77.       Procurement for subprojects will be in accordance with AIDB's
procedures which require competitive shopping and are adequate given the
sizes of the packages expected. Consultants and other experts hired under
the technical assistance component will be qualified and experienced and
will be hired under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement). For medium and
large scale industry subprojects, the Association will disburse against 100
percent of the foreign expenditures on imported goods,80 percent of the
local expenditures on previously imported goods,and 60 percent of total
expenditures on civil works. For the small-scale industries, small
contractors, training and technical assistance components, the Association
will disburse against 100 percent of the total expenditures on goods and
services. On the basis of general IDA disbursement experience for similar
projects, disbursements are expected to be completed by June 1989.
Benefits and Risks
78.       The project will strongly support the Government's efforts to
increase production of basic manufactured goods in short supply by
providing foreign exchange for investment purposes, particularly in medium
and large-scale subprojects. The increased production of such goods is



- 25 -
expected also to have a secondary impact on economic activity by providing
material incentives to help stimulate peasant agricultural production. In
addition, the project will strengthen AIDB to enable it to play a larger
role in channeling economically and financially viable productive
investments into the industrial sector, and will also provide technical
assistance to improve the planning and implementation of industrial
development in Ethiopia.
79.       The project's employment benefits will be considerable.  The
project will finance medium and large-scale manufacturing subprojects
requiring a total capital investment estimated at US$50 million
equivalent. At the average cost per job of US$52,000 recently experienced
by AIDB, and after allowing for inflation, at least 960 jobs will be
created in medium and large-scale industries. This is considered to be a
conservative estimate of job creation, however, since the high cost per job
on which it is based reflects the large but declining proportion of
replacement investments which AIDB's portfolio has included in recent
years. Similarly, the small industries component is expected to finance
about US$3.6 million equivalent of investment. Based on AIDB's recent
experience of about US$3,140 cost per job in small industries, this
component should generate a further 1100 jobs. The experimental component
for small contractors will also create additional employment.
80.       The project faces no specific risks that are greater than can
normally be expected with operations of this type, except that unexpected
shortages of domestic or imported supplies could possibly hamper the
ability of industrial enterprises to carry out investment plans and utilize
available capacity. This, in turn, could adversely affect AIDB's
portfolio. This risk, however, does not detract from the validity of the
project's objectives, and is considered acceptable.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB), and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
82.       Special features of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
83.       An additional condition for effectiveness of the proposed credit
will be the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, between the Borrower and AIDB (Section 5.02(b), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
84.       1 am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 26 -
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 8, 1982



-  27                                               .
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                  Page  1
ETHIOPIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE ACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           1221.9
AGRICULTURAL     782.3                               MDST RECENT          LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAFA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 40.0        70.0    130.0                 238.3                 794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RELOGRAD.S OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     9.1        30.5      20.3                70.5                  707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 20093.0    25450.0  30861.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 6.4         9.3      13.9                 17.5                  27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     53.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      162.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      16.4        20.8      25.3                27.7                   55.0
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    25.0        32.0      38.8                73.7                  130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.9        44.8      45.0                44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                        53.5        52.6      5Z.4                52.4                   51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.6         2.6       2.6                 2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.1         2.4       2.1/B                2.6                   2.8
URBAN                             5.5         6.1       6.6                 6.5                    5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.7        49.9      49.8                46.9                   46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    28.1        25.6      24.4                 19.3                  15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.3         3.3       3.3                 3.1                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        103.0       101.0      84.0/c              89.5                   89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORLIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  83.0        83.0      75.0                90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         65.0        65.0      58.5                52.7                   52.8
OF WHICh ANIMAL AND PULSE      25.0        26.0      22.0                 17.8                  16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY BATE    42.5        38.1      36.0                27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   35.9        38.3      39.8                45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         172.0       178.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         6.0       6.0                23.9                   27.4
URBAN                              ..          ..      32.0                55.0                   74.3
RURAL                              ..          ..       2.0                 18.5                  12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        14.0      14.0                 26.2
URBAN                              ..        67.0      56.0                63.5
RURAL                              ..         8.0       8.0                20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN   *    100465.0    75744.0  75320.7              31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION FER NURSING PERSON    14921.4     7876.8   5399.1               3674.9                 2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          3023.8      3083.4   3410.4                1238.8                1028.4
URBAN                           224.2       377.0        ,,               272.8                  423.0
RURAL                              ..    16009.9         ..               1745.2                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        10.6
HOUSI Nc
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         4.5
URBAN                             3.5         6.2 1/
RURAL                              ..         *.5
AVERACE NUNbER OF PERSONS PE5 ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                             2.7          ..
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                            58.2/.        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
1/ A reeent mission has reestimated this figure to be about 5.3.



- 28 -                                    ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2
ETHIOPIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA                      REFERNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  GES
M MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
NoST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIHATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENSOLLMENI RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  7.0         16.0      36.0                  56.4                     73.7
MALE                  11.0         23.0                            70.7                     96.8
FEMALE                 3.0         10.0        ..                  50.1                     79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.4          4.0       9.1/f                10.0                     16.2
MALE                   1.0          6.0         .                   13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 0.1          2.0         .                   6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  20.0            4.5         ..                  8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0        48.0       50.0                  46.5                     36.2
SECONDARY                           13.0         28.0      38.0                  25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                       6.0/d    15.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          1.6       1.8                   2.9                     32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.9         6.3        7.2                  32.8                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            .          0.3        0.8                   1.9                      8.0
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    2.C          1.1       1.2                   2.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                                                  1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8974.7      10957.5   12774.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    35.7         35.2      34.6                  34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               88.0         84.0      80.1                  80.0                     56.6
INDUSTRT (PERCENT)                   5.0          6.0       6.9                   8.6                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.7         43.1      41.4                  41.7                     37.2
MALE                                  58.6         56.9      55.1                  54.3                     47.1
FEMALE                                31.3         29.7      28.1                  29.2                     27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                              ..                 .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                               .                    . 
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                    .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                     . .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIKATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .           .      115.0 1/              136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                             0..        5.0 -                64.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                      77.0                  99.1                    334.3
RURAL                                 .                    37.0                  61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                              . .     60.0                  39.7
RURAL                                                      65.0                  68.8
Not available
hot applicable.
NOTES
/a   The Sroup Averages for each indlcator gre population-welghted arithmetic memos.  Coverage of countril 
m_ong the lndicators depends on avallablity of data and Is not unifor.
lb   Unless otherise noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimace, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   FAO data differ somewhat fro. Ministry of AgrIculture data, and may exaggerate the apperent decline;
/d 1965;  /e Addis ababa only;  If Combined lower and higher secondary;  L  Recent population growth
Tate for 1975-80 Is 2.5Z.
may, 1981
1/ A recent mission has reegtiqnated this figure to be about US$190 in 1981.



-29-
ANNEX I
got..: JAlthough,the dot. ape dran Pro,  -urce  generalily Jodged the coIatolelenp,ai.                               hud .en he noted that they ey net be i.te-
eationoly uomparObl. b.._  f the lath of atoa-d-ga-d datfntoe.                       .~n.p.8b   Ifeenounleindoeti                        th. data.  The d.t  era.. ses
th.1 .... ... (.  t.  .. d ltrbo  r. o,d   f .ggd.LudLueta treds, and chen...erlc  certI.~  eoc dffe......e. hawet . S......  ..
The efarene steIp  coo III the  -n  -ougy grop of the 1 eabeo  ceote  ae 2) a country gr..p with aemewiat higl..                      incomeL.   th-n th. C...ntry grup
at nh  euh.ot cuntr   .....yt  or 'C.pitals ..rpl.. Oil E.yrtrs  gru   hr   Middl    .. .ote  ..rt fIh MInn end Middle ta.t" i. cho... b...... oI t            .os
eai-udlt....l affil.ULee.  In the rfer..nc. group dote th.e e...ge aR       e tpopultion weighted  -r1 battl  -en  fop OtIh I,lodituo  and ehoan only whe
-n  tditano  at o tiec amon  the country and r                ...e V..ope
LAND ARIA (toendeaicS.)                                                                           p.Icto   e    octl  e      oa,ube.adrrl PoPuLettee  (total,
lgl-Total  -ur -c  -nn  -eprtetg  lard .... en d Inland  eter.-                              -hu.adS on l)ivided hy thien r-P-on ..a noh.  of  hoapima,l had.'
da 1urue       atlet  of agolcultor-Ire  uadt oaIlly on pernannly                         otiel   nPuio a:~nd plva-  gpn-ra  Ld rPcrilad h.yituyl endpe
ter  rap. pntane.-npht and kitchengna    pn  i  follow; 1907  dag.                        hhlntln.nn.                 oPitale era .eOehileheent  -o.ienl   tnffed
CM PER CAITA Onl) - COP p.r tpit, net 1.0.e  orn    abtpie,tl                                       iltr   n  oticu..Pclheiee   ren,ic.                                   nlth
aulatd hy  coacoae o   ahd  etcl  Lan  hl   (1977-79  ai);                   OO                  n      le   Sener  nt P.raooIy Soad h      het                   ht byl
230, and ig7h data.                                                                             adlulouietn,durt,niwi,ag.                     oic fof.,pio_PuoinntauI
denten end Pro-ide .   iIe   rangeof edica  faflite.Pe   tutie
UIUOYCT etfti Tlc6 PPM CAPITA - Oatau  .lonedption nf  -omenIa -nanY (.oal                                                        SIa opee  ne   epnleicuedl  pnlncipalleee,   optla
cad igo,tne    ......en, natura  pn nod hyd-. nucea  and gRohamo  sla-                            .An  e_tI hoeftnItlorrtlhoepittae .nd ead.ca  ad eat.-iLt
tntoiny)       kiorm    f ..oal eqovalinn p-rcpia  ih     197. ad 199.nnr. 9ip-otei.d h.cyitele ueLoolude.d.only onde  to.tal.
data.                                                                                           Adaoetna-a  de-i-1 Med -  Ttota  n..bh- ofd-ntsine..                 dlerhorgee
e,a  hoapltale dnided hy tho nebn  of hbde.
POUTotal  AeDu VITAL Tg MidYerc (und.) - A. of haly 1; 1960. 1970. end 1979                    BootleG
grho Ppuatin  OnrIt oI total) - Latto of -hn  to total population;                          A hooahold  ioeeao  agepo  ldvdtnwh   hn   ivn    otn
differen  dafitiicL o   ranoes aISfn    onua  lt   f date                                       and their main epale.   , b.nder or odgor my ccea  gre be inloded Ia
ae  _tnogiae; 1960. 19. 'O  cd199don.                                                       th   eahl   oraolrlP.rPoe
Penulatu  inma 000 - Corint  pnpuleciooprjcgce  n  bed on 19g0                                  Mr of pureon  Per rg La all  rbit, end nurl1 ....uptedcrnnia
toabeolto   y age and ..eoud their    taiy ad   et Iilg   ntaa                        elig.rea    ey    DecInee. goc1ude ...-P. -aat  notd                       e
level, and fnale lifr coootunoy etbiliui.cg .n 77.5 oro-e.  The pur-                 Convenional d-nllnge nu    lcociyi   iIg   urehaeprot
stats  for feroiliy nato alec hone  hree it-ol .  a....tg derlint in                of tetul. urba, aped rope1 dwellings .     Piiay
f.ertility a.corIngittcc           -1a mod peet fusly pl-nnic  pOrf-tor c..
eceeertethe ..  s.licad on  of these nine coeitio         If cttgnility         EDUCATION
ed fnrtlllty trends forpontonrrt.o                                                          -d)etd lrolmot tiOe
smtalnaM   Soulcin-ou            iaoitoar  P.Pulaci- there On no 9r-eph eirre                   Pri-nerol-tte.gl and femal  - Gree.. tuel. bale end fln.
rho bIrth Pete  eeolt   h  drth pore, end a le  th. en. et--urre                               anoleto   llgnatteptoylvla   erereo    freenr
eiu eeto.Thi. eeuhier-d onlY aEt-e fortuitY rate  d..liet to                           pnar   tol-g    ouuioe   owly    ldecidre  aged 6-11
the  .aP,a:.-.e  en-l of untne.       nput inrte   h: eneah g n..rtion                          yeao  bt adjuetdP odifferent 1engthe If primay .4.-uiee; fc
f   nerlc.iteeltf ... ttly.  Thn.ttbnn           ueItoao    -etutiee withoivru  edoca.ttc enrllen  any eoceed ltd p-nman
aeiae  o     bh oeeo   h  rcoJ:otnd togtrttt f the Population                                    I'nlloe   PIP".e Srg below  c  abo- the official school ug..
ho the pear 2000. and the cute.fdecine uf f-rtilttyretettorpen-Srnap   co l  totl   a   odfnl                                                                      ... Coyidebn;oodan
eas  le_ti                                                                                      dri..tina teqilrs.a SnaeI-  ft-  Yeure of  ppl.e-d primary inatrtticn
Tear etationa..r .. po -oooco  IS reahed - The year whe   t.teiogor  population                   m          a...d.s gnera . rctlol. or teacher      t. inin -g-entmnien. Ioa popi
gino hoe boeo..uchpd.                                                                           sn-1 otl   o17yga  feo   or               Ipede,-. cooaaane    eeally1
fopultion Doatt                                                                                     meloded.
P.    . - bId-rea  ppuacpersqar  kilometer (100hrineef                                    Ioaiea enolet(prnto    .....r     tnilmlitntuau
totL area; 1960.1970 Ied 1979date.                                                              ieul.4.e technical. indtniel. In u-be  Vrceren  whighob         rt  indep-d-
Pg.a ...ho. Seloiro   ed- Compotel SS ohov  for-               iclerl ad                         annoyors depariuta uf  -eooderyioonn.
only;19, 190cd17              tc..                                                            loi-nahrrtio - O..ar                   ..ad ..codar  - Tot.1altdeeealld0
PnpoltI..  nSrorr   oron)-Chilic-  (C-lu  -eere,  etigee(15-                                        pru`-ry ud  e        'u y Il...le ditidd byf=boe  nmnnho  to th
64 ya .)nd retired IrS Y-ar  nd over)   e   rcnaoof mid-your ppa-                                OnepdIII evls
L,gi'-; l960. 1970. uod1979 dega.                                                               Adult literacy rote frt-c t) - Literate edlt. (able to roa  and w-ite)
Pepulegit trowo  Pate riceor  t- ttcI -  --Iuo  growth retes of totAl mid-                 In uP-rcentag  uf total adll't lpopotin  aged 15 y..r. aSadevr
yoa  Pp-poltton  fo  195u-O., 1900-7U, eel 1972-79.
Pepigio  Crwn. ai  (croco  -onhc    Anul growth natee of othe  pepo-              COfffMTt('tOt
atoefr19 02-5   i9hO46-70,..ed 1910-79.                                                PsnepCore (-e thooneod .... latio) - paeeogarec-   eemrfegno
Crode  -irth Oatn _(p-th_ sed) - Aoo-l lIne binihe ce  thoo..ud of mid-rer                          ar   -ainalac  tho   -m eene elodesaea.he .   ....e and
papoletin; 1961. 1970. acd 1979 dato.                                                           aItgap yoeirn
Cz.d Tee,th R.tar  (erttua         - A..taI d-ath  per thoomeda of aid-your                     gaic teeni... (rp- tho'ceaod ocatt)-All typo. of   niesfur wadia
population; 160, 1970, u.'7 1979 luia.                                                          h...ad...te no genera  public Po, Ihecaund ef yoP..eiao; celd.a e-
hot --I  ordocc  p-niod if abhn.              r       =e peet ate-speific  ten-                 setwei   fer   aa  o   eetiaemyno   eo ael   ic
tIlity  -are; ....ll II tice-...ec ucecg- eodirg In 1990. 1970. und 1979.                       meet t        nnn   btlisbnd lcnl
.renofcild-etc.er(-6    er)hoeehrbeorldrten                                               aoerCiueln fenn  h..ec  rouat                   h)-th           tbh ......gS  tie-
ALL l mpid none  inI mon   g  g_op.                                                             coluti        o"diyLtrL inters  peap. dfiocd SaanodcS
pIhil-utto   dyvetd pt     Itnoil  to . IsodLe  dente  no         L ni  cn ee
pFOtD ADie Ot TfION It h   'daily" if It  ppr..r. at Leas.t loon g.    .asck.
leg   f Food Pouto   o  Ceytir  (19 971-100)     lIade  of Po  capita ....XI                C"rmaActlAttendance co  Cunitu  -e  Yea-i-ne..d on ohe -ele  ef
plooto   feIro   ondte.   tdcto   tldene   n   ed  andtlhrifud  dcin  h. year  ISlodteS aa                                                      tefna        drie-intas
ise  tlnd,year basis. iuwcoi.it.......  pt i-oy goode (eg   urased mabile  ei
ta are  -ecld.d),  Atorn"a.. Pttuci...   of each otucy in bme  on dLABRd PaiRCi
metloalarrete  roduor cic-n-igics; 1901-h5  I. 17. ed 1979 len.ttenIl-  abor Porte (th .... d) - teto-mO-ely meting pevena  i-nolta
pew day.Areilahl  eupplle  conynlt  doerettc  p-od-cion. impor,  ee                  cat..o-purnbl; 1960. 1970 and 1979 da-te
Lxot.an   hne  in           .         :. ecock. ,Npt eplan ,ld  atimal food.  Fed,Pml  cne(- Peal  labor force oS per_tg.g of nt.-l laber-                     r
boasitie   sdIi odpcesn,nd l'erm1  dL_ibgnthIoI.  beor-Anci.e)rnot      lhrfrei  emn,frsr .,hnieg  o
ect   er a  -tootd by FAO bed ... d hyetolgicn   ed   o   oa oi                        ftain  Ieprntg   f tota  labor force; 1060. 100 and 1979 dat.
iny and h      hut ,,otod-rtg   -rtosetlraeerr.hd    "onn.aeIdscy(ecn)-Lh- force inL.                                                  ne   osroro.esforne
aed eon dia.nibotIot of pouletiLco. .od al11-tod 10 p-ycro  fo   eaeend elnotricity. wter end gs.  an plnrotnge of tot.l leho fart; 19h0.
bea-hl  leci  1961-65. 19701..ad 1977 dote.                                                   1970 and 1979 data.
P., -tepita o-pPl-yefrolo(ro    r dec  - Prorit  --reo   of pee -epit                         Per..t. at R-t-g  (-en-ot -               -1.nl. and fe 1.al  - Pargttip.ti- e
eMt aoppty o!f to   pm  dec.  cNi -orly of fund te d.floi       ehoo          a-utcty                                                    P-',oyidmettl.ml, and femal  labor ferns 
qcicanni  freIt tntLws egtablinhad by  illD Pynctidn for eixci-o                               aonae   fgtl ma. end fmaepoyl.fto  of all ags.r.                       etaey
alloanc o..  f h0 grage 0) Scal p,ot-ic p-r oar sod Ii eres of -ni-a  cod                     1960. 1970, end 1979 Ue_   TOe  n  b-ed  n TILe' p-rl ip.tfn rte
pelehroei,of hbo   10 nSne stold he  It.lp..i.T.e.en-oflcigeoaonunteo   h  prlno. A.dlon  time trgmd.  A
ards  re lo at Oet tiee oh75 trne'ottota  yrtt   n   3 grasIf                       ten etImoae    rmntIonal.. seurre
anImal 'Protein  Ie acaera  fgr the acrId;. yroro-    h  FA  In ib thin.                        omi  wndooy Patia -LRtin ef popo1.glee anto  IS sW 65 cadee
Warld Ped tu_rYr; lObi-h5. g197  ao  1977 daa.i   the tetu1 Labor forte.
rive  ft.,  nlale  ol ~1ar  Inr.a .,m oa.y  1961-h5. 1970 and 1077 data.       tNoo.gcp   TRIsyL'TIfON
Chitld fat   -A   trt)t pate -re  thic .n d) - AnnuL dune. per thunsar  1.                       sc       rof Prn-te Incom   (both ire   n   id      csvdb   ibs
ago grop 1-  yrec. t  chi ldcc  It gtsi  K. grop; tar noodnlpistre                            peneot. ticthun 20 percent, pearn   20 po-ct. aed pooes  60 pa-em
arfe  atadone   from lire tables; 1960. 1970 ead 1979 des.a..aaolo
EZALTO                                                                                          PYttTJE  IOP
Lif PptoattatMith(cer)    Aorgenober of peer, of lit. ramafotog                      Terr TOG"olc  eaRtagec0veyapotmt   aurn   fpSre ee
an. birth;191   t0ed97  data.                                                                    cad should hn inoerTrotd rOth Iro.ndlderble ootion.
of  ge ter  c         thocd IonOtntsdSA-lotAro...                                                             100.01.01hI  tht Itomfleeltele  nhrt y...ma
At... cur  aehcfo   rtce  hrhln   pfg.00   aiayals   .                                             aerlrt   oet  inoee levelhis Lwe-gte  of1 avlan  reth oSplne
percentaeeeefn-hel-rre .p I4 --n pculttco    -t-oblev-r..epohllf                                parenalleqo         - o   tbeoug ry.   ralel kedrr    rerh              tun
noasnahf eocoes000)0tad 1P-ructh  -ou.-   )  o  aebrs00th  ILL,meol                      sa   ua       ecnf h. pu- ettea (orbgan,1 aedurl) the ore"s~hoelace
e not Laos to syecd 5 dleyrOpcrt l.:uI  part oh theIdaylin fe..hlt P theLpoor-
faiy .sae   oed.11Il..  .l                    hth..    .r1
kreecaceal.o.4o.c.,c~pyccboop     -baMndrra 
Utneclpcpl)Sulb. rh.t.e.d  .cl,nodrcpr IfIh.                         1;a
porreetasne of  he (P ceeper t ue popolatiors   icoreta di sAlul mop Inc lod
th:nllolo   ufd lete j.q-otto on Ot. p-t  tthtect d. f      hia.rea                                                           emmeea   eilBeago
end eeg-aa   yetrhn.epte   oieaee   i   nniaedam.tmLdeanteadPontaubprme
1"0 Intl et gone.p'L    .... :r.T ,
Peee.ric. yn ?:yc)(n. - pplitru 1agodad by  -omhr If penligphy.i-                                                                           Nay 1981
PnPletuep~r.re.gry.9rn - Pvpolatbo- dicid.d hb. -behe  of rate



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
Economic Indicators
Gross national Product in FY 1980 1/                                    Annual Rate of Grovth (Z, constant prices)
US$Mln.        Z                               FY1975-80         FY1980
GNP at Market Prices                 4090.2       100.0                                 3.1              5.7
Gross Domestic Investment             425.6        10.4                                 8.0             25.6
Gross Domestic Savings                218.5         5.3
Resource Balance                     -207.6        -5.1
Export of Goods and NFS               608.3        14.9
Import of Goods and NFS               815.9        20.0
Output in FY19801/                                Government Finance          Central Government    --
Value Added                                          (Br.Hln)               1 of GDP
US$Mln.        X                                    FY1980          FY1980         FY1977-79-
Agriculture             1870.5         50.8       Current Receipts            1559.7            18.5               16.4
Industry                 576.6         15.6       Current Expenditures        1548.0            18.4               16.3
Services                1238.4         33.6       Current Surplus               11.7            0.1                 0.1
3685.5        100.0       Capital Expenditures         389.3            4.6                 4.1
Money, Credit and Prices
(Fiscal Years)                                                  1977         1978          1979         1980
(million Br. outstanding end of period)
Money and quasy-money                                           1467.9       1682.1        1848.0       2053.1
Bank Credit to Central Government                                443.2        766.3         862.3        968.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Financial Institutions                                        642.3        911.9        1222.7       1592.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                                                21.5            23.3          23.2        24.3
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                              10.3           18.6            12.9      12.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                      8.8           72.9           12.5       12.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                    11.6           42.0           34.1       30.2
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Fiscal Year: July 8 to 7.



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
Balance of Payments
(Fiscal Years)                       1977         1978           1979          1980 I/          Merchandise Exports (1978-80)
(Million US$)                                       (Fiscal Year Average)
US$Mln.   %
Lxports of Goods, NFS                405.7        418.2           455.4        608.3             Coffee             280.1    71.9
I-ports of Goods, NFS                510.2        613.9          660.8         815.9            Pulses               12.0      3.1
Resource Gap (deficit   -)          -104.5       -19.7          -2T5.4        -0                 Ollseeds              5.7     1.5
Hides & Skins       48.9    12.5
Investment Income (net)               -1.8         -4.4           -2.6           3.8            Oflseed cake          3.1      0.8
Private Transfers (net)               16.6         14.8            23.3         19.8             Other               39.9    10.2
Balance on Current Account           _-W         -185.3         -IT47         -1I84.                Total           3n7    100.0
Official Transfers (net)              42.6         53.2           59.7          57.5            External Debt, June 30,1980
Private KLT Capital (net)              5.7          3.5             0.0          0.0                                     US$Mln.
Public MLT Borrowing (net)            44.9         33.2            73.1         96.2            Public Debt.Incl.
Disbursements                     (61.6)       (49.6)         (88.4)        (112.9)              guaranteed
Amortization                      (16.7)       (16.4)         (15.3)        (16.7)           Total outstanding &
Short-term Private Capital             3.5        -13.5          -19.0         -14.3                Disbursed               670.2
Change in reserves (--                                                                          Debt Service Ratio for FY1980
increase)                         -23.7        125.8           45.7           39.1                                        %
Minor Items                           16.7        -16.9            25.2           5.5            Public Debt. incl.
Gross Reserves (end year)            390.2        _64.4          218.7          179.6               guaranteed              5.0
Petroleum Imports                  57.4         60.0           68.2          120.3
Petroleum                          12.6         12.2           13.6           26.0
IBRD/IDA Lending (Mar.31,1982)
(US$ ~Iln.)
IBRD      IDA
(hatstanding &
Disbursed       51.4    283.3
Undisbursed    -       131.0
Outstanding mncl.
Undisbursed    51.4    414.3
late of Exchange
Since 1974
US$1.00 - Br.2.07
lr.1.00 - US$0.48
- not applicable
/- not applicable
1I  Provisional                                                                                            May, 1982



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or
Credit                                                                (less cancellations)  Undis-
Number          Year       Borrower      Purpose                       Bank       IDA        bursed
Twelve loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed.                     108.6    119.5
Cr. 269-ET       1971       Ethiopia      Dairy                                    4.4           0.3 3/
Cr. 332-ET       1972       Ethiopia      Highways V                              17.0           0.1 3/
Cr. 485-ET       1974       Ethiopia      Drought Areas Rehab.                    10.0            1.9
Cr. 486-ET       1974       Ethiopia      Wolaita Agriculture II                  12.0            2.2 3/
Cr. 552-ET       1975       Ethiopia      Highways VI                             32.0           0.6 37
Cr. 553-ET       1975       Ethiopia      Education IV                            23.0            1.9 37
Cr. 554-ET       1975       Ethiopia      Telecom. V(2nd tranche)                 16.0            1.3
Cr. 603-ET       1976       Ethiopia      Rangelands Dev.                         27.0          14.4
Cr. 708-ET       1977       Ethiopia      Road Sector                             32.0          15.6
Cr. 707-ET       1977       Ethiopia 1/  Revised Amibara                          25.0          10.6
Cr. 789-ET       1978       Ethiopia      Grain Storage & Mkg.                    24.0          10.8
Cr.1088-ET       1981       Ethiopia      Agricul. Minimum Pkg. II                40.0 2/       38.1
Cr.1141-ET       1981       Ethiopia      Education V                             35.0 Z,       33.2
Total                                                  108.6   416.9          131.0
of which has bden repaid                              57.8      2.6
Total now outstanding                                   50.8   414.3
Amount sold                            6.0
of which has been repaid             6.0                -          -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                       50.8   414.3
Total Undisbursed                                         -    131.0          131.0
l/ US$1.7 million disbursed under former Cr.418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, has
been repaid out of the proceeds of the new Credit.
2/ Credits 1088-ET and 1141-ET are denominated in SDRs (SDR 32.0 million and 28.2 million,
respectively).
3/ These credits are being closed out.



- 33 -
ANNEX TT
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                          Type of                Amount
Year       Obligor                              Business      Loan    Equity       Total
1965       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I         Textiles      1.5       1.0          2.5
1966       Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.           Paper          -       1.9          1.9
1968       HVA Metahara, S.C.                   Sugar         5.5       3.5         9.0
1970       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II        Textiles      0.4       0.2         0.6
1973       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III       Textiles      1.5       0.2          1.7
Total Gross Commitments                           8.9       6.8         15.7
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and Sales                    8.8       4.3        13.2
Total Commitments now held by IFC                    -      2.5          2.5
Total Undisbursed



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982 1/
Cr. No. 485:      Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project:  US$10 million
Credit of June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
November 7, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Disbursements on all project components have been
completed except those for the Sirinka Pilot
Catchment Rehabiltation sub-project. Both the
development of the sub-project's conceptual framework
and its physical implementation have progressed well
during the past year.
Cr. No. 554       Fifth Telecommunications Project (Second Tranche):
US$16.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975; Date of
Effectiveness: August 26, 1975; Closing Date: June
30, 1982.
Project implementation is about two years behind
schedule because of various difficulties, including
shortages of construction materials and certain
categories of staff, that were encountered during the
early stages of the project. In recent years,
however, the Telecommunications Service of Ethiopia
(TSE) has made concerted efforts to speed civil
works and equipment installation. Most of the
buildings for exchange and transmission equipment
have now been completed. The interurban switching
equipment, the telex exchange, and most of the
transmission systems have been installed. In
addition, a comprehensive training program has been
prepared for TSE's staff.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors about
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 603:      Rangelands Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Credit of January 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
May 18, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is about three years behind
schedule, primarily because of security constraints,
but has improved in recent years in secure parts of
the three sub-project areas. The project
organization is well-developed and most of the
infrastrucutre is now in place. Range rehabilitation
and management aspects of the project are now being
implemented, and studies on livestock development and
highland rehabilitation are expected to begin
soon.
Cr. 707:          Revised Amibara Irrigation Project:  US$25.0 million
Credit of November 7, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
April 7, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The construction of headworks and irrigation systems
is proceedig satisfactorily, and all civil works
should be completed ahead of schedule by the end of
1983. Progress on building and housing construction,
however, has been slow due to a shortage of
construction materials. About 1800 hectares were
planted with cotton in the 1981/82 cropping season,
and good yields are expected.   Significant delays
have been experienced in the preparation of
settlement plans and alternative grazing areas for
the Afar people.
Cr. No. 708:      Highway Sector Project (Seventh Highway):  US$32.0
million Credit of July 5, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: October 7, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Progress in implementing the Five-Year Road Program
has been slower than expected at appraisal, but
generally satisfactory. Good progress has been made
on primary and secondary road construction.
Progress on rural road construction is satisfactory
and improved significantly during the past year now
that the new Rural Roads Organization has become more
firmly established. The training and technical
assistance components of the project are proceeding
well. A US$10.5 million EEC Special Action Credit
(No. 34-ET) signed on November 30, 1979 to construct



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
a 100 km Mota-Bahar Dar feeder road subproject, is
behind schedule due to equipment problems and
shortages of construction materials.
Cr. No.789:       Grain Storage and Marketing Project:  US$24.0 million
Credit of June 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 7, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The volume of grain storage capacity to be
constructed under the project has been reduced from
about 350,000 tons to about 240,000 tons, comprising
35 stores, to accord with available funding. The
quality of construction of stores, however, has not
been satisfactory, but corrective measures are being
taken to improve quality and to strengthen the
Agricultural Marketing Corporation's (AMC) storage
and technical management. All stores are expected to
be completed by early 1983. Tendering for the
construction of AMC's new headquarters building will
begin soon. AMC's overall penetration of the cereals
trade has grown as fast as estimated at appraisal,
but various marketing and distribution problems have
been encountered and are being reviewed. The
Government has disbanded the Ethiopian Grain Agency,
and has tranferred its pricing and marketing
functions to the Ministries of Domestic Trade and
Foreign Trade.
Cr. No. 1088:    Second Agricultural Minimum Package Project:  SDR
32.0 million (US$40 million equivalent) Credit of
February 2, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: September
1, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
A widespread network of Ministry of Agriculture
offices and staff has been established throughout
most of the arable highland areas. Procurement of
vehicles and equipment is well underway. Delays,
however, have been encountered in producing improved
seeds and procuring other inputs for the technical
packages for farmers. Some management and recurrent
cost financing difficulties have also become
apparent, and various proposals to correct them are
being examined.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 1141:    Fifth Education Project: SDR28.2 million (US$35
million equivalent) Credit of June 29, 1981;Date of
Effectiveness: September 24, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985.
Project implementation is getting underway. The
supply of materials for the civil works has been
arranged and procurement procedures for equipment and
vehicles have been initiated. Recruitment of
technical assistance personnel has started and some
experts are now in their posts. The Association is
currently reviewing the Government's proposals for
carrying out the education evaluation study and the
manpower study.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Twelve months.
(b) Preparation by: Government of Ethiopia and AIDB with the assistance
of IDA staff.
(c) Initial Discussions with IDA: Continuous sector dialogue since 1970.
(d) First IDA mission: August 1978.
(e) Appraisal Mission departure: February 1979
(f) Post-appraisal mission: April 1981
(g) Negotiations: April 5 to 16, 1982
(h) Planned date of effectiveness: October 29, 1982
II. Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) AIDB will adopt policies limiting its long-term debt/equity ratio
to 4/1, and its total financial commitment in each subproject to the
lower of either 20 percent of its net worth or 80 percent of the
subproject's total capital cost (para. 61);
(b) AIDB will calculate financial and economic rates of return in its
appraisals of medium and large-scale subprojects, and will use a
cut-off rate of at least 10 percent as a guideline for project
acceptability (para. 62);



- 39 -
(c) AIDB will be required to repay funds borrowed from the Government
for the purpose of extending loans to state farms only to the extent
that the state farms repay AIDB (para. 64);
(d) AIDB will require prior approval of the association for subloans
to medium- and large-scale subprojects exceeding US$200,000
equivalent, and will be allowed an aggregate free limit of US$2.0
million equivalent (para. 70);
(e) The maximum subloan to a medium- and large-scale industrial
enterprise will be US$4.0 million, and to a small contractor
US$150,000 (paras. 70 and 72);
(f) The Association will approve all subloans to small-scale
contractors, and all proposals for the use of training and technical
assistance funds (paras 72, 73 and 74); and
(g) The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, will be a condition for effectiveness (paras. 70 and 83).



