CICREDIT WMBER 1275 XT
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank Project)
between
ETRIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1275 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    ow-        66-            , 1982, between
ETHIOPIA (hereinafter zalled the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01
(a) to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank (hereinafter called the AIDB) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to AIDB the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the AIDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"14. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set
forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(b) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.


﻿-2-
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (e)
of the Project Agreement no applications for approval or
requests for authorization to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of any portion of the Credit shall
have been received by the Association, or having been so
received, shall have been denied or (c) after the Closing
Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from
the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portio- of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(d) The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06;
and
(e) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therpin set
forth and the following additional terms have the 1ollowing
meanings:
(a) "AIDB" means the Agricucural and Industrial Development
Bank, established pursuant to Proclamation No. 158 of 1979 of the
Borrower.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and AIDB, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time.
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and AIDB pursuant to Section
3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(d) "Sub-loan" uteans a loan or credit made or proposed
to be made by AIDB to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to AIDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and "free-limit
Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement.
(e) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
AIDB proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(f) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan.
(g) "Birr" means the currency of the Borrower.
(h) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(i) "Statutes" means the statutes of AIDB pursuant to
Proclamation No. 158 of 1979 of the Borrower.
(j) "Statement of Policy" means the Statement of Policy
of AIDB as adopted and approved by .ts Board of Directors on
August 30, 1976 as amended to date and as further amended from
time to time.
(k) "Prior Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (No. 304 ET) between the Borrower and the Association
dated May 10, 1972, and "Prior Credit" means the credit provided
for therein.
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by AIDB or by any one or more
subsidiaries of AIDB or by AIDB and one or more of its sub-
sidiaries.
(m) "Grants" means funds provided out of the proceeds of the
Credit free of charge for training and technical assistance
pursuant to Parts D and E of the Project described in Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(n) "small-scale industries" means smell-scale industrial
and handicraft enterprises with fixed assets (excluding land) not
exceeding two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) at the
time a sub-loan application is made to AIDB.
(o) "small-scale contractors" means contractors eligible to
be awarded public contracts not in excess of Birr 2.5 million and
so registered with the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agree-
ment set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-seven million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 27,000,000) for use by AIDB.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Cred!i may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time t)y agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for disbursements, under Sub-loans in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for Investment Projects,
and for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Parts D or E of the Project, and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; provided, however,
that no amount shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account in
respect of an Investment Project unless (A) the Sub-loan for such
Investment Project shall have been approved by the Association or
(B) the Sub-loan shall be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the
Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be: (i) either a Sub-loan
for an Investment Project under Part B of the Project or (ii) a
Sub-loan for an Investment Project under Part A of the Project in
an amount to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement
which, together with any other amount or amounts previously
financed for the same Investment Project under the Development
Credit Agreement and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate
the equivalent of $200,000 and which, when added to all other


﻿-5-
free-limit Sub-loans financed under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
$2,000,000, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from
time to time as determined by the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall he made on account of (i) expenditures made by
an Investment Enterprise prior to the date of this Agreement or,
(ii) expenditures made in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Association's approval, more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received the application and
information required under Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agree-
ment or (iii) expenditures made in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Associa-
tion shall have received the request and information required by
Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2,03. AIDB is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish upon the
Borrower's request. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower and AIDB of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge (hereinafter called commitment charge) at the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.
The commitment charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March I
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1992, and ending March 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Project for which the Credit is
granted .s the financing by AIDB of economic development in the
territory of the Borrower through loans for productive purposes
to enterprises in such territory, and grants for training and
technical assistance, all for specific development projects and
in accordance with the Statutes and Statement of Policy of AIDB.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   the financing of specific development projects through
Sub-loans   to   medium   and   large-scale  industrial
enterprises;
Part B:   the financing of specific development projects through
Sub-loans to small-scale industries;
Part C:   the  financing   through  Sub-loans  of  equipment   for
small-scale contractors;
Part D:   a  program  of Technical Assistance     Sub-projects  to
assist AIDB and public sector institutions concerned


﻿-7-
with industrial development to upgrade the quality of
their professional staff in project development and
management, accounting and finance; and
Part E:   a  program  of  Technical Assistance    Sub-projects  to
assist AIDB and public sector institutions in carrying
out planning, project preparation and implementation,
sector and subsector studies.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts D
and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or shall cause to
be employed technical assistance personnel whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall enter with AIDB into a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association pursuant to which the Borrower shall, inter
alia:
(a) relend to AIDB the equivalent in Birr of the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn from time to time from the Credit Account
for purposes of financing Sub-loans to medium and large-scale
industrial enterprises under Part A of this Project:
(i) cause AIDB to repay to the Borrower in Birr the
amount so relent to AIDB in accordance with an
amortization schedule which shall conform in
relevant part substantially to the aggregate of
the amortisation schedules of such Sub-loans;
(ii) cause AIDB to pay interest to the Borrower at the
rate of eight per cent (8%) per annum on such
amount; and
(b)  relend to AIDB the equivalent in Birr of the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn from time to time from the Credit Account
for Sub-loan disbursements under Parts B and C of the Project:
(i) cause AIDB to pay interest to the Borrower at a
rate of eight per cent (8%) per annum on the
amount to be relent to AIDB; and


﻿-8-
(ii) cause AIDB to repay to the Borrower in Birr the
amount so relent to AIDB in accordance with a fixed
amortization schedule of 10 years including 4 years
of grate starting from the Effective Date;
(c) make available to AIDB in the form of a grant the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from time to time from the Credit
Account for expenditures required under Parts D and E of the
Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as co protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abro-
gate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, promptly after the date
hereof, take all necessary measures to ensure that, unless the
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, AIDB shall
pay or repay to the central bank of the Borrower, both in prin-
cipal and interest, any funds made available to it by the central
bank of the Borrower for the purpose of lending to state farms
only to the extent that the loans extended to state farms by AIDB
shall have been paid or repaid by state farms to AIDB both in
principal and interest.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of
its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instrumen-
talities, or any agency or instrumentality of any political
subdivision, to take, any action which would prevent or materially
interfere with the carrying out of the Project or the perfor-
mance by AIDB of any of its other obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take or
cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be required
on its part in order to enable AIDB to carry out the Project and
to perform such other obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-9-
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of AIDB under the Project Agreement or under any other
project agreement between the Association and AIDB;
(b) the Statutes or Statement of Policy of AIDB shall have
been amended so as to, in the Association's opinion, affect mate-
rially and adversely the policies, operations or financial condi-
tion of AIDB or its ability to carry out the Project;
(c) AIDB shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby any of
the property of AIDB shall or may be distributed amonj its credi-
tors;
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to AIDB
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity, as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of AIDB or for the suspension of its operations; and
(f) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by AIDB, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of AIDB's
business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its manage-
ment and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additonal events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (f) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and AIDB; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition tu the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and AIDB, respectively.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, AIDB, and constitutes a
valid and binding obligation of AIDB in accordance with its
terms; and
(b) that   the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement has been    duly
authorized by, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of,
the Borrower and AIDB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date \n }LkY)32I,, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement and those of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date sixteen years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03 of
this Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN                              21147
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under              22,500,000
Part A of the
Project
(a) equipment,                                100% of for-
materials and                            eign expendi-
supplies                                 tures and 80%
of local
expenditures
for imported
items
(b) civil works                               60%
(2) Sub-loans under Part B        1,800,000        100% of amounts
of the Project                                disbursed
(3) Sub-loans under Part C          900,000        100% of amounts
of the Project                                disbursed
(4) Technical assistance
and personnel ser-           1,350,000        100%
vices under Pa,:ts D
and E of the Project
(5) Training under Part D           450,OCJ        100%
of the Project
TOTAL        27,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that ths amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may at its discre-
tion, by notice to the Borrower or upon the Borrower's request:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    c7       day of
198 2/.
FSCTY
FOR SECRETARY


