                                        CONFORMED COPY



                                 CREDIT NUMBER 4087-ALB




ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE PROGRAM



      Amended and Restated
       Project Agreement
          (Albania Component – OST Project)


                      between


    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                        and


        TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OPERATOR



              Dated November 30, 2010
                                                          CREDIT NUMBER 4087-ALB

              AMENDED and RESTATED PROJECT AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT dated November 30, 2010, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
OPERATOR (OST).

         WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of July 25, 2005, as amended to
the date of this Agreement, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventeen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR17,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on conditions that OST agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;

       (B)    by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and OST, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to OST on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and

        WHEREAS OST, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;

       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                       ARTICLE I

                                        Definitions

       Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.

                                       ARTICLE II

                                 Execution of the Project

        Section 2.01. (a) OST declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
                                             2


       (b)     Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and
except as the Association and OST shall otherwise agree, OST shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the PIM.

       Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.

       (b)     OST shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines
acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not later than
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the
Association’s approval.

        Section 2.03. (a) OST shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03,
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.

        (b)     For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without
limitation thereto, OST shall:

               (i)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association
                      and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after
                      the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
                      purpose between the Association and OST, a plan for the future
                      operation of the Project; and

               (ii)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
                      with OST on said plan.

       Section 2.04. OST shall duly perform all its obligations under its Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, OST shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

        Section 2.05. (a) OST shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.

        (b)     OST shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by OST of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

       Section 2.06. OST shall:
                                             3


       (a)     maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

        (b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association, on a date approximately twelve (12) months after the date of
this Agreement, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and

        (c)    within one (1) month after providing the report referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, or by such later date as the Association shall request, review said report
with the Association, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusion and recommendations of said report and the Association’ s view on the
matter.

                                      ARTICLE III

                         Management and Operations of OST

       Section 3.01. OST shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

        Section 3.02. OST shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and environmental practices.

       Section 3.03. OST shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.

       Section 3.04. OST shall:

       (a)    take all measures necessary to ensure that it meets the quarterly targets of
the Power Sector Action Plan with respect to reduction in power transmission losses and
improvement in bill collection;

       (b)     prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and, by
March 31 of each year, commencing 2011, provide a detailed business plan to the
Association for its review and comment; and from time to time, as the Association may
request, review with the Association the implementation of said business plan; and
                                            4


      (c)     take all measures necessary for the carrying out of the EMP in a timely
manner, and shall include adequate information on the carrying out of such measures in
the FMRs for the Project.

                                     ARTICLE IV

                                 Financial Covenants

        Section 4.01. (a) OST shall establish and maintain a financial management
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements), in accordance with
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations,
resources and expenditures related to the Project.

       (b)    OST shall:

              (i)     have its financial statements for each Fiscal Year (or other period
                      agreed to by the Association) audited, in accordance with
                      consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
                      Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
                      and appointed by March of each year;

              (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
                      later than six (6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year (or such
                      other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies of
                      the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section,
                      for the Fiscal Year (or such other period agreed to by the
                      Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements
                      by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association;
                      and

              (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning such
                      records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements,
                      and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to
                      time reasonably request.

       Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon OST’s reporting obligations set out in
Section 2.06 this Agreement, OST shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which:

              (i)     sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both
                      cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing
                      separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains variances
                      between the actual and planned uses of such funds;

              (ii)    describes physical progress in Project implementation, both
                      cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and
                                             5


                       explains variances between the actual and planned Project
                       implementation; and

               (iii)   sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end
                       of the period covered by said report.

        (b)     The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the date of this Agreement,
and shall cover the period from the incurrence by OST of the first expenditure under the
Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent
calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the previous FMR until the
end of such calendar quarter.

       Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, OST shall not
incur any new debt, unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of
OST, shows that its estimated net revenues for each Fiscal Year during the term of the
debt incurred shall be at least 1.3 times its estimated debt service requirements in such
year on all of its debt, including the debt to be incurred.

       (b)     for the purposes of this Section:

                       (i)    The term “debt? means any indebtedness maturing by its
                       terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally
                       incurred.

                       (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
                       contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
                       or for the modification of its terms of payment on the date of such
                       contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
                       agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
                       has been entered into.

                       (iii)   The term “net revenues? means the difference between:

                               (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                               operations and net non-operating income; and

                               (B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                               including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                               payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
                               depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest
                               and other charges on debt.

                       (iv)  The term “net non-operating income? means the difference
                       between:
                                             6


                              (A)    revenues from all sources other than those related to
                              operations; and

                              (B)     expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                              taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.

                      (v)     The term “debt service requirements? means the aggregate
                      amount of repayments (including sinking fund payment if any) of,
                      and interest and other charges on, debt.

                      (vi)    The term “reasonable forecast? means a forecast prepared
                      by OST no earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the incurrence
                      of the debt in question, which both the Association and OST accept
                      as reasonable and as to which the Association has notified OST of
                      its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such
                      notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future
                      to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition or
                      future operating results of OST.

        (c)     Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, in
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.

        Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, OST shall
produce, for each Fiscal Year starting in Fiscal Year 2010 to and including Fiscal Year
2011, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than twenty percent (20%) of the
annual average of its capital expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred, for the
current, the previous, and subsequent Fiscal Year.

       (b)      For the purpose of this Section, the term “capital expenditures? means all
expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to
construction, related to operations.

       (c)     By October 15 of each Fiscal Year, commencing in Fiscal Year 2010,
OST shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by OST and satisfactory to the Association,
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of
such year and the following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Association the result of
each such review upon its completion.

        (d)     If any such review shows that OST would not meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Year covered by such review, OST shall promptly
take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.

       (e)     For the purpose of this Section:
                                            7


              (i)     The term “funds from internal sources? means the difference
between:

                             (A)    the sum of revenue from all sources related to
                             operations, consumer deposits and consumer contribution
                             in aid of construction, net non-operating income and any
                             reduction in working capital other than cash; and

                             (B)     the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                             including administration, adequate maintenance and taxes
                             and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for
                             depreciation and other non-cash operating charges), debt
                             service requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
                             distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other
                             than cash and other cash outflows other than capital
                             expenditures.

                      (ii)  The term “net non-operating income? means the difference
                      between:

                             (A)    revenues from all sources other than those related to
                             operations; and

                             (B)     expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                             taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.

        Section 4.05. OST shall review, with the Association, by October 15 of each year
commencing in year 2010, its program of proposed capital expenditures for the following
five (5) years, and, thereafter, finalize said program, acceptable to the Association.

                                     ARTICLE V

                             Effective Date; Termination;
                             Cancellation and Suspension

       Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon
which the letter of amendment to the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
becomes effective.

       Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of OST
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:

                      (i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
                      terminates in accordance with its terms; or

                      (ii)   the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
                                              8


       (b)     If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify OST of this event.

        Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.

                                      ARTICLE VI

                               Miscellaneous Provisions

        Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are:

       For the Association:

           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America

           Cable address:            Telex:                 Facsimile:

           INDEVAS                   248423 (MCI) or        (1-202) 477-6391
           Washington, D.C.           64145 (MCI)
                                              9



       For Transmission System Operator:

           Bulevardi “Gjergi Fishta? Nr. 10
           Tirana, Albania

           Facsimile:

           355-422-255-81


       Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of OST, or by OST
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the General Administrator of OST or such other person or persons as said
General Administrator of OST shall designate in writing, and OST shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.

       Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
Tirana, Albania, as of the day and year first above written.



                                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                                     ASSOCIATION



                                     By /s/ Jane Armitage
                                                              Authorized Representative



                                     TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OPERATOR



                                     By /s/ Sokol Ramadani

                                                              Authorized Representative
                                           10




                                     SCHEDULE 1
                                      Procurement

Section I.     General

A.     All goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits? dated May 2004 (the
Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.

B.    All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers? dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this
Schedule.

C.     The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts,
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant
Guidelines, as the case may be.

Section II.    Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods

International Competitive Bidding. Contracts shall be awarded on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids,
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

Section III.   Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Consultants’ services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

Section IV.    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

       Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, all
contracts for goods and consultants’ services provided by a firm shall be subject to Prior
Review by the Association.
