The World Bank                                              1818 H Street N.W.              (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT       Washington, D.C. 20433          Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                       U.S.A.                          Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                                                                            CONFORMED COPY

                                                                                                 November 30, 2010

      H. E. Ridvan Bode
      Minister of Finance
      Ministry of Finance
      Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit?
      Tirana, Albania

          Re:       Energy Community of South East Europe Program – Albania Component- KESH Project
                                             (Credit No. 4087 – ALB)
                                    Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement

      Excellency:

               We refer to: (i) the Development Credit Agreement, dated July 25, 2005, between Albania (the
      Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association) (the Development Credit
      Agreement); and (ii) the Project Agreement, dated July 25, 2005, between the Association and Albanian
      Power Corporation (the Project Agreement), both for the above-referenced Project. We further refer to
      your letter dated June 25, 2010, on behalf of the Borrower, requesting a restructuring of the Project
      following certain reforms of the power sector in Albania subsequent to the execution and effectiveness of
      the Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement. These reforms led to the unbundling of
      electricity generation, transmission and distribution operations with the attendant restructuring of the
      Albanian Power Corporation (KESH), the Transmission System Operator (OST) and the Distribution
      System Operator (OSSH).

              To reflect the legal and functional structure of the power sector in Albania established through
      these recent reforms, and thus enable greater efficiency in the implementation of the Project, after due
      consideration, we concur with your request to amend the Development Credit Agreement as follows:

      1.    The name of the Project as reflected on the cover of the Development Credit Agreement is
      amended to read as follows:

                “Energy Community of South East Europe Program
                       (Albania Component – OST Project)?

      2.    Paragraph (D) and the penultimate paragraph of the Preamble to the Development Credit
      Agreement are amended to read as follows:

                        “(D) the Project will be carried out by the Transmission System Operator (OST) with
                the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of
                the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to OST, as set forth in
                this Agreement;

                        […]
                                                   2


               WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
       extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
       in the Amended and Restated Project Agreement between the Association and OST (the
       Amended and Restated Project Agreement);?

3.      Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended through: (i) the addition of a new
Clause (h), and the re-numbering of succeeding clauses accordingly; (ii) amendments to Clauses (i), (j),
(n) and (p) as re-numbered; and (iii) the deletion of former Clause (p); all as follows:

               “(h) “OST? means Operatori i Sistemit te Transmetimit SH. A. or Transmission
       System Operator, established and operating as a joint-stock company subsidiary of KESH,
       pursuant to Decision 797 dated December 4, 2003 of the Council of Ministers of Albania, its
       Incorporation Act dated July 9, 2004, and its Registration No. 31935 in the Commercial Registry
       under the Decision of the Court of First Instance, Tirana, dated July 14, 2004.?

               “(i)    ‘PIM’ means the Project Implementation Manual for the Project, dated March 21,
       2005, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Association and
       OST;?

               “(j)    ‘PIU’ means the Project Implementation Unit within OST;?

               “(n)    ‘Project Agreement’ means the Amended and Restated Project Agreement
       between the Association and OST dated November 30, 2010, as the same may be amended from
       time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Amended
       and Restated Project Agreement;?

               “(p)   ‘Subsidiary Loan Agreement’ means the agreement to be entered into between
       the Borrower and OST pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
       amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
       Agreement, and the term ‘Subsidiary Loan’ means the Subsidiary Loan provided under the
       Subsidiary Loan Agreement.?

4.      Articles III and V of the Development Credit Agreement are amended through the substitution of
the term “OST? for the term “KESH? wherever the latter term appears.

5.    Part B of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, Description of the Project, is
amended to read as follows:

       “Part B: Implementation Support

               Provision of technical assistance to OST for Project implementation, including assistance
       in regard to procurement activities.?

6.    Clause (a), Paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, Special Account, is
amended to read as follows:

       “1.     For the purpose of this Schedule:

                (a)     the term “eligible Categories? means Category (1) and Category (2) set forth in
       the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;?
                                                    3


and the term “eligible Category?, whenever it appears in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement, is replaced by the term “eligible Categories.?

        Moreover, the Association hereby concurs with your request dated June 25, 2010 for a further
extension of the Closing Date and establishes June 30, 2012 as the later date for purposes of Section 2.03
of the Development Credit Agreement.

         Except as specifically amended in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 6
above, all provisions, terms and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement otherwise remain in
full force and effect.

         Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by countersigning both copies of this letter of
amendment and returning one of the countersigned copies to us. This letter of amendment will become
effective upon receipt by the Association of: (i) the copy of this letter of amendment countersigned by the
authorized representative of the Borrower; (ii) the copy of the letter of amendment to the Project
Agreement duly countersigned by each of KESH and OST; (iii) the Amended and Restated Project
Agreement duly signed by OST; (iv) the copy of the performance monitoring indicators letter duly signed
by OST; (v) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and OST; and
(vi) a legal opinion satisfactory to the Association confirming that: (A) the Amended and Restated Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by OST and is legally binding upon OST in accordance
with its terms; and (B) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and OST has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and OST and is legally binding upon the Borrower and OST in
accordance with its terms.


                                                Sincerely,


                                         By /s/ Jane Armitage
                               Country Director and Regional Coordinator
                                         for Southeast Europe
                                   Europe and Central Asia Region



AGREED:

ALBANIA


By: /s/ Ridvan Bode
Authorized Representative

Title: Minister of Finance

Date: January 27, 2011
