                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2269



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-40870)



                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.7 MILLION
                        (US$ 27 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA

       IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE US$1,000 MILLION

      ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE (APL) PROGRAM



                               December 21, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective November 5, 2012)

                                    Currency Unit = Lek
                                     1.00 = US$ 0.0092
                                    US$ 1.00 = 109 Lek

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 – December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

                                                            International Development
AMM       Albania Market Model                     IDA
                                                            Association
                                                            International Financial Reporting
APL       Adaptable Program Loan                   IFRS
                                                            Standards
BER       Bid Evaluation Report                    ISR      Implementation Supervision Report
CAPEX     Capital Expenditure                      KESH     Albanian Power Corporation
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy             KfW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
DO        Development Objective                    kV       Kilovolt
                                                            Millennium Development Goals
DCA       Development Credit Agreement             MDG-F
                                                            Achievement Fund, United Nations
                                                            Ministry of Economy, Trade and
DSO       Distribution System Operator             METE
                                                            Energy
EA        Environmental Assessment                 NPV      Net Present Value
          European Bank for Reconstruction and
EBRD                                               O&M      Operation and Maintenance
          Development
                                                            Albanian Transmission System
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return         OST
                                                            Operator
          Energy Community of South East
ECSEE                                              PA       Project Agreement
          Europe
EIB       European Investment Bank                 PCB      Polychlorinated Biphenyls
EMP       Environmental Management Plan            PDO      Project development Objective
EnC       Energy Community                         PIU      Project Implementation Unit
          European Network of Transmission                  Power Sector Generation and
ENTSO-E                                            PSGRP
          System Operators for Electricity                  Restructuring Project
ERE       Electricity Regulator Authority          PSR      Project Supervision Report
                                                            Power Sector Rehabilitation and
EU        European Union                           PSRRP
                                                            Restructuring Project
FIRR      Financial Internal Rate of Return        QAG      Quality Assurance Group
FM        Financial Management                     SDR      Special Drawing Right
FX        Foreign Exchange                         SEE      Southeast Europe
GWh       Gigawatt Hour                            TSO      Transmission System Operator
HV        High Voltage


            Vice President:                      Philippe H. Le Houerou
            Acting Country Director:             Gerard A. Byam
            Sector Manager:                      Ranjit Lamech
            Project Team Leader:                 Salvador Rivera
            ICR Team Leader:                     Yadviga Semikolenova
                        ALBANIA
ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE (ECSEE) PROJECT APL2


                                                         Contents


Data Sheet

  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 17
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 22
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 27
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 28
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 29
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ..................... 402
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Energy Community of
                                                                          South East Europe
Country:                Albania                 Project Name:
                                                                          (ECSEE) Project APL2
                                                                          (Albania)
Project ID:             P090656                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-40870
ICR Date:               12/21/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:                 ALBANIA
Original Total
                        XDR 17.70M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 14.32M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 17.70M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Albanian Transmission System Operator (OST)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/20/2004     Effectiveness:             12/21/2005       12/21/2005
                                                                                 04/17/2009
Appraisal:            02/22/2005     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 11/22/2010
Approval:             06/28/2005     Mid-term Review:           07/28/2008       10/23/2008
                                     Closing:                   07/31/2009       06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                          No                                                Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                 Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                                 100                  100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Regional integration                                                   50                   50
Regulation and competition policy                                      50                   50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Gerard A. Byam                       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                     Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:       Arturo S. Rivera                     Iftikhar Khalil
ICR Team Leader:           Yadviga Viktorivna Semikolenova
ICR Primary Author:        Yadviga Viktorivna Semikolenova


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project would provide investment support and technical assistance for Albania. The
objective of the investment is to extend the lifetime and improve the quality, reliability,
safety and efficiency of the bulk power transmission system by replacing ageing existing
facilities with new ones. The technical assistance would serve to facilitate project
implementation, strengthen the Transmission System Operator, and improve both the
tariff structure and the procurement procedures applicable to electricity imports.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/a


                                               ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target           Formally       Actual Value
                                          Values (from             Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                             approval               Target        Completion or
                                           documents)               Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     ECSEE APL: Regional market liberalization
                                                                                 Partially achieved.
                                                                                 ECSEE treaty is
                                                                                 binding. The Power
                                                                                 law was amended;
Value                                        Regional
                                                                                 as a result, Albania
quantitative or   Negligible                 electricity market
                                                                                 now has 7 eligible
Qualitative)                                 is functioning
                                                                                 customers with
                                                                                 annual consumption
                                                                                 of 684 GWh in
                                                                                 2011
Date achieved     06/01/2005                 01/31/2009                          06/14/2012
Comments          The amended Albanian Power Sector Law qualifies as eligible all customers
(incl. %          that: (1) are directly connected to the transmission system; and/ or (2) consume
achievement)      more than 50 GWh annually
Indicator 2 :     Capacity to transmit electricity is maintained at or above base levels
                                                                                 Achieved. The
                                                                                 transmission system
                                                                                 has delivered 6276
Value
                                             Equal to or greater                 GWh and 684 GWh
quantitative or   6000 GWh
                                             than baseline                       respectively to the
Qualitative)
                                                                                 distribution
                                                                                 network and to HV
                                                                                 customers, in 2011
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 01/31/2009                          06/14/2012
                  100% achieved. The Project improved the availability of 3 main substations and
Comments
                  increased the system reliability and transfer capacity. Besides the yearly increase
(incl. %
                  of transmission volumes, the transmission losses and the number of outages were
achievement)
                  reduced.
                  Transmission System Operator (TSO) functioning improved based on
Indicator 3 :
                  implementation of recommendations from technical assistance.
                                             Final
                                                                                 Partially achieved.
                                             recommendations
                                                                                 The final
                                             from technical
Value             TSO established with                                           recommendations
                                             assistance
quantitative or   limited operational                                            were submitted.
                                             submitted and
Qualitative)      capability                                                     Recommendations
                                             decisions have
                                                                                 have been partially
                                             been taken to
                                                                                 implemented
                                             implement them
Date achieved     07/14/2004                 01/31/2009                          06/14/2012
Comments          Organizational structure, processes and human resources plan were adopted, as
(incl. %          recommended. Market operation division remains weak. TSO needs to improve
achievement)      financial separation between the divisions and enhance its capacity to

                                                 iii
                operate/monitor the market
Indicator 4 : Procurement procedures for import of electricity improved
                                          Final
                                          recommendations
                                          of technical
                Existing procurement                                         Achieved.
                                          assistance
Value           procedures are                                               Procurement of
                                          submitted and
quantitative or cumbersome and result in                                     electricity
                                          decisions taken to
Qualitative)    delays and non-compliant                                     amendments were
                                          implement them
                bids                                                         passed
                                          by appropriate
                                          changes in the
                                          relevant legislation
Date achieved 06/01/2005                  01/31/2009                         02/29/2008
Comments        100% achieved. Consultants prepared a report on procurement in 2007.
(incl. %        Government presented to Council of Ministers relevant amendments, which were
achievement) passed in February, 2008
Indicator 5 : Increased availability of rehabilitated substations
Value
                                                                             Achieved.
quantitative or 85.42%                    98%
                                                                             98.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/22/2010                  06/29/2012                         06/14/2012
Comments        100% achieved. 98.5% substations availability was achieved because during
(incl. %        forced outages due to construction, the N-1 criterion for power transmission was
achievement) respected; as a result, energy delivery to distribution system was not interrupted
Indicator 6 : Reduced number of energy outages in the rehabilitated substations
Value
                                                                             Achieved.
quantitative or 50 outages/ year          20 outages/ year
                                                                             20 outages/ year
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/22/2010                  06/29/2012                         06/14/2012
Comments
                100% achieved. There were 102 outages in 2011 because of forced outages due
(incl. %
                to construction
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                 Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                   approval                      Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                 documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Progress in rehabilitation of substations
Value
(quantitative     0%                         100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2005                 01/31/2009                        06/14/2012
Comments
                  100% achieved. 100% of rehabilitation works in 3 substations is finalized. The
(incl. %
                  Completion Certificate was issued on June 14, 2012
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Progress in technical assistance

                                                     iv
Value
(quantitative     0%                       100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2005                  01/31/2009                         05/30/2008
Comments          100% achieved. The technical assistance work envisioned in 3 contracts: (1) TSO
(incl. %          strengthening, (2) Electricity tariff study and (3) Improving procurement
achievement)      procedures for electricity imports. All of the contracts were completed

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     12/07/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     12/01/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        0.75
  3     12/21/2007       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 1.23
                              Moderately              Moderately
  4     06/30/2008                                                                       1.39
                            Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  5     06/29/2009       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 1.39
                              Moderately              Moderately
  6     03/24/2010                                                                       3.87
                            Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  7     03/30/2011       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                11.70
  8     02/20/2012           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       19.35
  9     06/26/2012           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       19.91


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of the Closing Date
 04/17/2009       N       MU    MU            1.39
                                                     to January 31, 2011
                                                     (i) Amendments to the Legal
                                                     Agreements (DCA and PA) to
                                                     reflect the unbundling of the
                                                     power sector and substitution of
 11/22/2010               MU    MU            6.75   implementing entity; (ii)
                                                     extension of the Closing Date to
                                                     June 30, 2012; and (iii) revision
                                                     of the intermediate performance
                                                     indicators




                                                v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
Albania is part of the Southeast Europe (SEE) group of countries, together with Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Kosovo, FYR Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania
and Serbia. Prior to 1991, Albania was far less developed economically than any country
in the region, and was the poorest country in Europe. The fall of the Communist regime
in 1990 inaugurated an era of economic reforms, providing a context in which the private
sector could develop freely. In the late 1990s, the collapse of several pyramid schemes
brought the country to the point of economic collapse, and civil unrest ensued. Economic
recovery followed, and growth has been sustained since 1999. Until 2009, the average
growth was around 6 percent per year, one of the highest in Europe. Significantly,
increases in GDP led to Albania graduating from IDA in 2008. Despite this, in 2011
Albania’s per capita income of US$4,027 lags behind the average of US$6,759 per capita
for the SEE countries.
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Overall ECSEE APL Program: Under coordination of the European Commission, the
SEE countries decided to create a regional energy market with the longer-term objective
of integrating it into the European Union’s (EU’s) internal energy market. This initiative
is known as the Energy Community of South East Europe (ECSEE), or just the Energy
Community (EnC). ECSEE has been an integral element of the efforts of the Regional
Members and the European Commission for all states in SEE to have access to stable and
continuous energy supply which has been, and still is, regarded as essential for economic
development and social stability. The creation of an area without internal frontiers for
energy would contribute to economic and social progress and a high level of
employment, as well as balanced and sustainable development.
The key objectives of ECSEE are to create a stable regulatory and market framework in
order to: (i) attract investment in power generation and energy networks in order to
ensure stable and continuous energy supply; (ii) create a regional energy market allowing
for cross-border energy trade and interconnection to the EU market; (iii) enhance security
of energy supply; and (iv) improve the environmental situation in relation with energy
production and supply in the region.
A Memorandum of Understanding was signed to that effect in December 2003, in Athens
(the Athens Memorandum) and a legally binding Treaty (the Athens Treaty) was signed
in October 2005. The Treaty entered into force on July 1, 2006, and became fully
operational in 2007, when the EnC Secretariat was set up. The main provisions of the
Treaty include, inter alia, the transposition into national legislation and implementation of
EU Directives and Regulations in power, natural gas, energy efficiency, environment,
and renewable energy, along with applying the main principles of EU competition policy.
It soon became obvious that major financial resources were needed to finance the
investments necessary to enhance energy trade within the EnC and indeed to give life to
the concept of the ECSEE as a whole. For that reason the Bank decided in January 2005,
to provide regional investment support through the Adaptable Program Loan (APL)


                                             1
instrument. Since then, the ECSEE APL facility has become a key component of the
Bank’s working partnership with the European Commission.
The APL was intended to provide Bank support in a flexible manner and to operate both
horizontally (on a regional basis to support the ECSEE member countries), as well as
vertically (each country could in principle receive more than one APL over the program
period). Countries become eligible for an APL once they meet ECSEE’s basic entry
conditions as defined under the Athens Memorandum/Treaty 1 and remain substantively
in compliance with the letter and spirit thereof.
Albania Power Sector: At the beginning of Albania’s transition in the early 1990s, the
country was virtually 100 percent electrified and was a net electricity exporter, with
exports of around 20 percent of the domestic generation in 1991 and 1992. However,
while the three hydropower plants of the Drin River cascade, which produce over 90
percent of the country’s electricity, were in reasonably good condition, the one significant
thermal power plant, Fier, was in a poor state of repair. The transmission and distribution
systems were badly run down because of previous neglect of maintenance and outdated
equipment and there were frequent power outages due to overloading of facilities.
Electricity demand within Albania fell initially to 79 percent of the 1989 level by 1992
because of declines in industrial production. Thereafter it rose by about 10 percent per
year to 5,870 GWh in 2001. After 2001, Albanian electricity demand continued growing
at about 2 percent per year and reached 6,230 GWh in 2004. By 1998, Albania had
become a net electricity importer. By the second half of 2000, a serious electricity
shortage had set in, partly as a result of a fall in hydroelectric production caused by
reduced river flows. The country was unable to get all the electricity it needed primarily
because of transmission and financial constraints. The result was large load shedding,
which had serious adverse macroeconomic and social effects: industries cut production;
businesses had to purchase and use costly back-up diesel generators; households had to
suffer without electricity for many hours each day.
Since the beginning of 2001, the Albanian Power Corporation (KESH) started
implementing actions to reduce illegal electricity consumption and improve collections.
As a result of these measures, collected revenue increased from 8.7 billion Lek in 2000 to
26.9 billion Lek in 2004. Although total electricity losses remained high, they were
reduced from 46 percent in 2000 to 42 percent in 2002 and 40 percent in 2004. Load
shedding decreased from 524 GWh in 2001 to 358 GWh in 2004. In addition, the average
tariff level had been regularly increased.
Albania also initiated power sector restructuring. A new Law on Regulation of the
Electricity Sector was enacted in May 2003, which provided for strengthening of the
Electricity Regulatory Authority, ERE, and the full unbundling of the electricity sector.
In June 2003, a National Energy Strategy was adopted based on the recommendations of
the Energy Sector Study conducted by the World Bank. In July 2004, transmission was
separated from KESH, and the transmission system operator, OST 2, was registered as a

1
  The ECSEE APL requirements are that an electricity sector regulator and a transmission system operator
have been established and are operational
2
  OST: Albanian Transmission System Operator (Operatori Sistemit Transmetimit)

                                                   2
joint-stock company, with KESH as a holding company. In August 2004, all non-
household customers were granted the right to become eligible consumers and choose
their own suppliers.
As a result of the sector reforms introduced, Albania complied with the ECSEE basic
entry conditions and hence was eligible to use the ECSEE APL facility. The main
justification for the Albania ECSSE APL 2 Project was threefold. First, Albania had by
far the most unfavorable electricity supply imbalance among the ECSEE member
countries and thus was expected to benefit the most from the creation of an integrated,
well-functioning regional electricity market. Second, the poor state of the transmission
and distribution system was slowing down Albania’s integration into the regional
electricity market: infrastructure had been run down, overloaded and thus unreliable.
Given the situation in the sector at the time, private investments were not forthcoming.
Third, the Bank had been playing the major role in the Albanian power sector since it
began lending to Albania in 1992, both in supporting sector reforms and financing
investments. The Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project (PSRRP), which
was ongoing at the time, provided financing for transmission and distribution system
rehabilitation and strengthening in the regions of Durres, Elbasan and Kucova. The
Power Sector Generation and Restructuring Project (PSGRP) had been financing the
Vlore combined-cycle power plant, with co-financing from EBRD and EIB. Both PSRRP
and PSGRP projects also supported implementation of the Energy Strategy through
separate reform-related components.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
ECSEE APL Program Objective: The objective of the ECSEE APL is the development
of a functioning regional electricity market in SEE and its integration into the internal
electricity market of the EU, through the implementation of priority investments
supporting electricity market and power system operations in electricity generation,
transmission and distribution and technical assistance for institutional/systems
development and project preparation and implementation.
The key indicator is liberalization of electricity markets in SEE in accordance with the
Athens Treaty and creation of a functional regional electricity market.
ECSEE APL2-Albania Project DO: The Project provided investment support and
technical assistance for Albania. The objective of the investment was to extend the
lifetime and improve the quality, reliability, safety and efficiency of the bulk power
transmission system by replacing ageing existing facilities with new ones. The technical
assistance would serve to facilitate project implementation, strengthen the Transmission
System Operator (TSO), and improve both tariff structure and procurement procedures
applicable to electricity imports.
The key indicators were: (i) improved reliability of Albania power transmission network
(i.e., improved capacity to transmit electricity); (ii) more effective functioning of the TSO
(i.e., improved capacity due to implementation of recommendations from technical
assistance); and (iii) removed impediments to the effective operation of the electricity
market (i.e., improved procurement procedures for import of electricity).


                                             3
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
After the second Project restructuring in November 2012, two additional key results
indicators were added (increased availability of rehabilitated substations; and reduced
number of energy outages in the rehabilitated substations) in order to enable better
monitoring of progress towards achievement of the PDO.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
All electricity consumers in Albania were the main beneficiaries of the ECSEE APL.
Successful integration of Albania into a functioning regional electricity market would
address the serious electricity crisis that had been putting Albania’s economic growth at
risk. All electricity consumers in Albania were also the main beneficiaries of the Project.
Rehabilitation of the bulk power transmission system was expected to improve the
reliability and quality of electricity supply. Improved procurement procedures for
importing electricity were expected to decrease delays in entering into contracts, thus
improving security of supply. The TSO was expected to benefit from the Project as well.
With implementation of Technical Assistance, the TSO was to develop and implement a
new organizational structure, financial and accounting systems and business and
managerial processes.
1.5 Original Components
Eligible ECSEE APL Program Components: The Bank’s March 2004 framework
paper concluded that significant investments in power generation, transmission and
distribution, and technical assistance were required for a well-functioning power market.
Priority investments and technical assistance would be financed under the ECSEE APL
program so that the ECSEE Regional Members could effectively participate in the
regional electricity market.
ECSEE APL2-Albania Project: The Project consisted of:
1.      Investment Component: replacement of high-voltage equipment in the
transmission substations at Burreli, Elbasan 1, Elbasan 2, Fier, Fierza, and Tirana 1, and
replacement of control and protection equipment in the transmission substations at
Burreli, Elbasan 2, Fier, Fierza, Komani and Vau Dejes.
2.      Technical Assistance Component: (i) procurement activities and supervision of
project implementation; (ii) strengthening of TSO (preparation of business plan, putting
in place new financial and accounting systems; developing managerial and business
processes; creating an open balance sheet; estimation of transmission tariff based on
approved methodology); (iii) an electricity tariff study; and (iv) improving procurement
procedures for electricity imports.
Successful implementation of the investment component was expected to improve
reliability and stability of the Albanian power transmission system. Implementation of the
technical assistance component was aimed at strengthening TSO’s capacity as a system
and market operator. Successful completion of both components was expected to
contribute to Albania’s effective participation in the functional regional electricity market.

                                              4
Out of the investment component, the Bank financed replacement of high-voltage
equipment in Elbasan 1, Fier and Tirana 1 substations as well as control and protection
equipment in Fier 3; Burreli, Elbasan 2, and Fierza were parallel-financed by European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). The Bank financed the technical
assistance component in full. As IDA and EBRD financed procurement packages for
separate substations, there were no cross-effectiveness conditions.
1.6 Revised Components
N/a
1.7 Other significant changes
The effectiveness deadline was extended once, from October 21, 2005, to December 30,
2005. The delay in declaring the IDA Credit effectiveness was due to 2005 Parliamentary
elections: it took longer than expected to form the new government after the elections.
The Project was restructured twice. The first restructuring extended the Project’s closing
date from the original closing date of July 31, 2009, to January 31, 2011. The second
Project restructuring amended the Project Legal Agreements to reflect the unbundling of
the power sector (TSO substituted KESH as the implementing agency); extended the
Project closing date to June 30, 2012; and added two additional key results indicators.
Both times the closing dates were extended due to slow progress in implementation of the
investment component of the Project.
By the Project closing date, about 20 percent of the Project funds remained undisbursed
due to (i) FX fluctuations over the last 4 years of the Project life; (ii) equipment price
fluctuations; and (ii) termination by TSO of a contract for project implementation support
(part of the technical assistance component). The undisbursed balance of US$ 5,148,376
was cancelled on November 15, 2012.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The Project was prepared in close consultation with the Government and other donors
active in the sector. The most important consideration was the urgent need to improve
Albania’s energy reliability and security. The selection of an APL as the instrument
allowed addressing reliability and security issues in a way that was consistent across the
region. Horizontally, the APL allowed the Bank to address energy policy, EU accession
and Albanian transmission network issues using the same coordinated approach applied
in other SEE countries; it also allowed matching Bank’s commitments to the region to the
pace with which Albania was ready to move towards regional market integration. Regular
monitoring and regional benchmarking taking place in the ECSEE process were expected
to provide higher publicity and awareness, peer support and peer pressure incentives for
Albania to improve its performance so as to avoid falling behind other ECSEE members.
Vertically, the APL allowed the Bank to leverage its investments to improve reliability of
the Albanian transmission system with advancing policy reforms in the energy sector.

3
  Control and protection equipment in Elbasan 1 and Tirana 1 substations had been installed by EIB before
the Project.

                                                    5
Since the investment needs to improve the reliability of the Albania transmission system
were very large, several investments that could qualify under the ECSEE APL program
criteria were considered: a new power dispatching system; new cross-border transmission
lines; investments in expanding transmission network to meet growing demand; and
rehabilitation of existing substations. The first two options were rejected because they
were being prepared with financing by Italy and KfW. The third investment option was
considered to have lower priority in terms of avoiding outages. Rehabilitation of
substations was required immediately to address system availability issues. Evaluation by
independent consultants identified the priority substations to be included in the Project.
Elbasan 1, Fier and Tirana 1 covered about 70 percent of electricity transmission in
Albania and had been in dire need of urgent rehabilitation. The Project was to
complement the existing TSO program to replace old transformers at these substations.
The Project was designed taking into account the lessons learned from operation of other
regional electricity markets, as well as previous interventions in the country. A key lesson
learned from other markets (e.g., NordPool) was that the progressive integration of
energy markets and the implementation of common security of supply policies required
close attention to be paid to the operation of subsidiary electricity markets which are best
administered by TSOs. Hence, capacity building of the TSO was essential in facilitating
the effective integration of Albania into the ECSEE.
Experience from previous lending to the Albanian power sector showed that: (i)
implementation of the investments by KESH had been satisfactory; and (ii) prior to 2001,
KESH and the Government had not made much progress towards implementing
previously approved sector reforms. After 2001, with coordinated support by the donor
community, KESH and the Government started improving sector performance. These
lessons justified selection of the APL as an instrument. Along with financing physical
investments, the Project was designed to include the ECSEE-agreed benchmarks and
facilitate Albania’s sector reform actions.
The environmental and social aspects were carefully examined. The overall ECSEE APL
impact was expected to be positive since the common objective of the Athens
Memorandum parties was to stimulate economic growth and investment in SEE. ECSEE
accelerates the introduction of EU-compatible environmental legislation and standards in
the SEE region. The Project was also expected to have no adverse social or
environmental impacts. No land acquisition or resettlement was required. The investment
component of the Project consisted entirely of replacing existing equipment. Hence, the
Project triggered only OP/ BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment (EA).
The major risks at preparation stage included: (i) ECSEE initiative risks (e.g., different
pace of liberalization of the subsidiary markets might slow down SEE regional market
integration); (ii) technical risks; (iii) implementation agency capacity risks; and (iv)
sectoral risks due to ongoing unbundling. ECSEE initiative risks were minimized by
adopting gradual approach to market opening and voluntary approach to trading.
Technical risks were minimized by using proven technical designs and turnkey
contracting approach. The rest of the risks were mitigated through technical assistance
component that addressed implementation support and strengthening of TSO capacity.



                                             6
2.2 Implementation
ECSEE APL Program: In May 2006, Albania ratified the Athens Treaty making it
legally binding. In 2007, distribution was separated from KESH, creating a new joint-
stock company, Distribution System Operator (DSO), owned by KESH. In June 2008, the
ownership of both TSO and DSO was transferred to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Energy (METE), completing the full unbundling of the sector in compliance with the
Treaty. In March 2009, DSO was privatized. The Albanian Market Model (AMM) was
approved by the Government in early 2008. In parallel, ERE prepared new regulations,
licenses, tariff methodologies, as well as technical and commercial codes. As part of the
DSO privatization process, the new Regulatory Statement was adopted for 2009-2014.
Under the adopted market structure, TSO was given a role of market operator.
The Power Law was amended in January 2010, and again in January 2012; it allowed all
electricity customers who are connected directly to the transmission system and/or
consume more than 50 GWh/year to become eligible. The restrictions on allocation of
interconnection capacity were formally removed. Auctions open to third parties have
been being held since February 2012. However, the number of operations remains limited
due to legislative gaps that hinder enforcement of contracts.
Albania’s legal framework still only partially complies with ECSEE obligations. Little
progress was made with implementing the acquis on the security of electricity supply in
line with the Athens Treaty and little progress was made on aligning the Power Sector
Law with the acquis. Albania has not yet started aligning its legislation with the EU’s
third internal energy market package. The required transparency of the market remains
problematic 4.
ECSEE APL2-Albania Project: Implementation of the Project investment component
financed by IDA went through two main stages: (i) procurement and mobilization of the
supply and installation contractor between Project effectiveness (December 2005), bid
award (December 2008), and final mobilization of the contractor (July 2010); and (ii)
actual implementation of physical works under the component (October 2010-June 2012).
The procurement of the supply and installation contractor took an unusually long time.
The tender documents were issued in October 2006, but all the Bank’s comments were
addressed in the final Bid Evaluation Report (BER) in the fall of 2008. Such a long
procurement process stemmed from constant disputes between KESH, TSO and the
implementation support consultants, which led to confusion regarding the preparation of
the BER. The process was complicated further by a complaint by one of the bidders and
insufficient responses and follow-up by KESH.
Additionally, procurement and contractor mobilization was slowed down by confusion of
responsibilities under the Project. After TSO had been separated from KESH, there were
significant delays in the division of assets and liabilities between the two entities. Hence,
it was agreed during Project preparation that KESH, as the holding company of TSO,
would become the implementing agency under the Project. Such a set-up eventually
created ambiguity of responsibilities, disrupting implementation. After the sector was
4
 Annual Report on the Implementation of the Aquis under the Treaty Establishing the Energy Community.
Energy Community Secretariat, September 2012

                                                  7
fully unbundled, KESH no longer had responsibilities for the Project, but TSO which had
become responsible for the Project, had no legal relationship to the Project or the Bank.
The complicated relationship between KESH, TSO and the Project significantly delayed
signing and then effectiveness of the supply and installation contract.
Procurement delays issues were addressed during the mid-term review in October 2008,
which looked into the KESH/TSO dispute with the implementation consultants. Based on
the review recommendations, the procurement process was finalized and the bid was
awarded in December 2008. Because of the procurement delays, the Project closing date
was extended to January 31, 2011. The issues of ambiguous implementation
responsibilities under the Project were highlighted in the QAG Disbursement Review in
November 2009. The review recommended Project restructuring to transfer
implementation responsibilities to TSO, and potentially extending the Project closing
date further.
The restructuring mission took place in February 2010. It assessed TSO’s financial
viability, management and technical capacity for Project implementation and concluded
that with appropriate technical assistance and regulatory oversight, TSO had the capacity
to remain financially viable, meet its commitments under the loan and maintain adequate
control and financial reporting procedures. Based on the mission recommendations, the
Project restructuring action plan was agreed with TSO. The contractual arrangements
under the Project were transferred from KESH to TSO, and the supply and installation
contract became effective in July 2010. The formal Project restructuring was completed
in November 2010. The Project closing date was extended again to June 30, 2012.
After the Project had been restructured, implementation of the investment component
financed by IDA proceeded smoothly and without any major delays. All the required
works for all 3 substations were completed with high quality and the Operational
Acceptance Certificate was issued on June 14, 2012.
Implementation of the investment component, financed by EBRD, also experienced
delays and has not been completed as of yet. Approval of EBRD Loan came in July 2006,
instead of October 2005, as had been originally expected. EBRD’s approval of the
Project was subject to significant improvement of KESH’s performance in the first
quarter of 2006 and issuance of the necessary permits to build the Vlore Thermal Power
Plant, which was co-financed by EBRD. Since approval, implementation of EBRD-
financed investments has been behind schedule, mainly due to unclear responsibilities of
KESH and TSO under the Project. After numerous attempts to establish clear
responsibilities and good working relationship between KESH and TSO, EBRD loan is
being restructured to transfer implementation responsibilities from KESH to TSO. The
EBRD-financed components are expected to be completed by June 2013. Since IDA and
EBRD financed rehabilitation of different substations, implementation of the IDA-
financed investment component of the Project was not affected by the above.
Technical Assistance component of the Project was implemented successfully and
without any delays. Implementation support consultants were hired in January 2006, and
supported the PIU through the procurement process. During the implementation of works,
TSO, under the Bank supervision, showed a high capacity to supervise the Project and
decided to terminate the implementation support contract. Recommendations to improve

                                           8
procurement procedures for electricity imports were presented to the Government in 2007
and relevant amendments to the procedures were passed by the Parliament in February
2008.
A detailed business plan was prepared for and adopted by TSO. A new organizational
structure and human resources plan were recommended to TSO. Those recommendations
have been partially adopted. The new organizational structure now includes, besides
transmission network management and system operation divisions, market operation
division. However, market operation division remains weak. TSO still needs to improve
the financial separation between the divisions. New dedicated accounting software was
introduced and TSO’s financial audits are conducted based on International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS). Tariff study was completed in 2007 and TSO has been using
the materials from the study to support their tariff applications to ERE in 2007 and 2008.
After the new Regulatory Statement was adopted, the Bank, with the support of the
MDG-F-financed fee-for-service activity, developed an Albania power sector financial
model, which has been used by TSO in its recent tariff applications, as well as to update
their business plan.
When it became apparent that about 20 percent of the Project would be undisbursed, the
team decided not to restructure the Project again to introduce an additional component.
Given difficulties in the Project implementation during previous five years, the team
decided to concentrate on successful implementation of the investment.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Monitoring and Evaluation of the Project was adequately designed. The appropriate
monitoring indicators were selected that were directly relevant to the achievement of the
ECSEE APL objective and the ECSEE APL2-Albania PDO. ECSSE APL 2 objective
was aligned with the obligations under the Athens Treaty. At the regional level, the
Project benefited from the established mechanism for ECSEE coordination, monitoring
and evaluation. ECSEE’s Regulatory Secretariat has been providing regular monitoring
reports of Albania performance against agreed ECSEE benchmarks.
For ECSEE APL 2-Albania Project, the indicators were relevant, quantifiable and
measurable. Monitoring was the responsibility of KESH and subsequently TSO.
Implementation support consultants provided regular progress reports during the
procurement process. These reports played an important role in finalizing the BER and
contractor selection. Regular reports were received on the progress of the technical
assistance component.
After the implementation support contract was terminated, TSO became responsible for
regular Project implementation reports. TSO provided reports on time and their quality
met the Bank’s requirements. TSO experienced difficulties with collecting and reporting
data on additional key results indicators, introduced after the Project’s second
restructuring. The Bank team worked closely with TSO to improve their data collection
capacity since these additional indicators were crucial in monitoring system reliability.
From the Bank side, monitoring was carried out through the normal review procedures
for procurement, regular supervision missions, the Financial Monitoring Reports, the
independent annual financial audits of the Project, KESH and TSO statements. The

                                            9
values of the indicators were integrated in Aide Memoires, Project Supervison Reports
(PSRs) and ISRs.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards
Environment: The Project triggered OP/ BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment (EA). The
Project financed replacement of existing equipment in the existing locations. The EA was
carried out and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared for substations
under rehabilitation to define procedures to mitigate local impacts of the Project. The
mitigation measures included: avoidance of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in
equipment purchased; ensuring that sewage water from substations was properly disposed
of; appropriate movement of men, materials and equipment during construction/ erection
(noise, dust); and minimizing noise and communication interferences during operation.
Satisfactory consultations about and disclosure of EMP took place. The EMP was
implemented in a timely manner and was closely monitored by TSO and the Bank
supervision team. Conditions at all three substation sites greatly improved and are within
environmental standards. TSO is still in the process of removing the remaining scrap
material and replaced equipment from substations area.
Social: Potential social impacts were examined during the design stage. The project did
not require land acquisition or resettlement. The Bank-financed works were confined
inside the walls of the substations.
Fiduciary
Procurement: Procurement was carried out consistent with Bank Guidelines and in
accordance with the methods and thresholds specified in the DCA. Procurement activities
for the technical assistance component were carried out on time and without issues.
Procurement activities for investment component were carried out with the help of
implementation consultants, who assisted with preparation of bidding documents. The
bidding documents were issued in October 2006, followed by three addenda and the bid
validity period extension.
The bids were opened in February 2007. The BER was submitted, after some delay, to
the Bank in June 2007. This initiated lengthy period of revisions, complicated by the lack
of agreement between KESH, TSO and implementation consultants. As a result, three
revised BERs were required before the final reward was agreed in November 2008, over
two years after procurement of the supply and installation contract was initiated. Also, in
the fall of 2006, a complaint was received by one of the bidders. It took KESH about a
year to respond to the complaint, which further delayed the BER finalization. After the
bid was awarded, no major issues were encountered relating to procurement.
Financial Management: FM arrangements from a fiduciary perspective were
implemented in an adequate manner and maintained throughout the life of the Project.
PIU used a comprehensive set of accounting policies and internal control procedures in
accordance with the Project financial management manual. The quarterly Project interim
financial reports were submitted in a timely manner.
KESH employed a financial specialist, who had the appropriate skills and abilities to
manage the Project’s financial management and disbursement issues. Consequently, this

                                            10
specialist moved to TSO. After Project implementation responsibility was transferred,
TSO agreed with the Bank on an action plan to improve its FM capacity and strengthen
Project systems and controls. Following recommendations of the auditors and the Bank,
TSO installed new accounting software. However, it was only used for accounting and
consolidation of the Project transactions into financial reports of TSO. Project financial
reports were still prepared in spreadsheets.
The audits of the entity and Project financial statements were submitted on a regular
basis, albeit with some delays in a few instances. Project financial statements consistently
received unqualified opinion from the auditors. TSO received modified opinions on its
consecutive IFRS financial statements due to noted deficiencies in financial reporting
process and weak control environment. However, progress was noted in the 2011 IFRS
financial statements, when the respective audit opinion was upgraded from disclaimer of
opinion in 2010 to qualified opinion (except of) in 2011.
Counterpart financing was satisfactory during the Project life.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
For successful compliance with ECSEE conditions, Albania needs to continue energy
sector and market reforms. Most of the necessary reforms are addressed in the current
draft for a new Power Law, which has not been approved by the Government or
submitted for public consultations. With the draft adopted, effective opening of the
electricity market could finally commence in Albania. Hence, adoption of the new Power
Law remains a priority for Albania.
In an integrated regional electricity market, TSO would have to play a leading role as a
subsidiary market operator. Despite improvements, TSO still lacks capacity to efficiently
perform its responsibilities as a market operator and to monitor compliance with EU
standards and the Athens Treaty. TSO needs further investment support in order to
establish and run an efficient electricity market. In particular, TSO has to implement fully
compliant rules for capacity allocation and power system balancing, with ERE overseeing
the implementation. The requirements for transparency of information provided by TSO
for access to the networks needs to be monitored and enforced by ERE.
The rehabilitated substations do not require any particular measures other than standard
maintenance. With appropriate regulatory oversight, TSO has capacity to operate and
maintain the rehabilitated substation, thereby insuring their technical sustainability. TSO
needs finish removing the remaining scrap material and replaced equipment from areas of
rehabilitated substations.
In order to further improve reliability, safety and efficiency of Albanian bulk power
transmission system, additional investments are required in expanding the transmission
network to meet growing local and regional demand. The system also needs to meet the
ENTSO-E requirements for operational network security. TSO is currently implementing
the SCADA System which is expected to be in full operation in May 2013. This project,
and also others already implemented, will enable TSO to fulfill the requirements of
ENTSO-E. Also, TSO plans important projects in order to meet local and regional
demands. Those include an interconnection line Albania-Kosovo as well as a 110 kV
circuit line “South Albania?. Implementation of both lines is expected to start in 2013.

                                            11
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The PDO remains highly relevant today and is in line with the current 2010 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY11-FY14. The CPS cites infrastructure, and electricity
supply, as one of the main obstacles encountered by businesses. The unreliability and
poor quality of electricity supply has regularly been listed by Albanian firms of all sizes
as one of their most critical constraints. In 2008, firms reported an average of 32 outages
per month, necessitating widespread reliance on stand-by generators and inhibiting
expenditures on sophisticated technical equipment which might be damaged by power
fluctuations. A recent study 5 that assessed the Albanian power sector concluded that the
security of the Albanian electricity supply would require maximizing transitions at the
regional electricity market. For that, TSO would need to improve its capacity to allocate
border transfer capacity, aiming to increase cross border trading and minimize
interruptions to service caused by transmission facilities maintenance. The Project
consequently addresses concerns which remain valid in 2012, as embedded in the PDO
and the key indicators associated with regional integration, supply reliability and capacity
of the TSO. Selection of an APL as an instrument allowed dealing with these issues
through consistent and coordinated approach applied across the region.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
ECSEE APL Program: The sector reforms introduced during the life of the Project
(electricity sector unbundling, privatization of the DSO, adopting and implementing the
new Regulatory Statement, allowing for eligible customers, introducing third-party
auctions) brought Albania closer to regional market integration. However, Albania’s legal
framework still falls behind the Athens Treaty obligations 6. Additional sector and market
reforms are required to ensure sector viability and compliance with ECSEE requirements.
ECSEE APL2-Albania Project: The main DO of the Project (to extend the lifetime and
improve the reliability, quality, safety and efficiency of the bulk power transmission
system) has been achieved. Transmission system capacity increased from 6,000 GWh at
appraisal to over 6,200 GWh in 2011. The Project has significantly improved the
availability of the rehabilitated substations: from 85.2 percent at the time of appraisal to
98.5 percent by the time of closing. Even with forced outages due to construction, the N-
1 criterion for power transmission 7 was respected and energy delivery to distribution
system was not interrupted. The number of energy outages in rehabilitated substations
reduced from 50 outages per year to 20 outages per year 8 . Besides the increase of
transmission volumes, the transmission losses decreased from 5.5 percent at the time of


5
  A Stocktaking Assessment of the Albanian Power Market: Reform Progress and Market Monitoring—
Final Report, AF-Mercados EMI, prepared for MDG-F, United Nations, and the World Bank, April 2012
6
  Annual Report on the Implementation of the Aquis under the Treaty Establishing the Energy Community.
Energy Community Secretariat, September, 2012
7
  The N-1 criterion expresses the ability of the transmission system to lose a linkage without causing an
overload failure elsewhere. A power transmission system must be able to supply power reliably under all
conditions of demand on the network.
8
  The total number of outages in 2011 was 102 because of forced outages during construction.

                                                   12
appraisal to 2.3 percent in 2011. Even though electricity consumption reached a new
historic high of 7,340 GWh in 2011, no load shedding was applied.
TSO’s financial audits are conducted based on IFRS. Albanian electricity sector financial
model has been used by TSO to annually update its business plan and for tariff
applications to ERE.
3.3 Efficiency
ECSEE APL Program: The benefits from ECSEE electricity trade have been limited for
Albania so far since the process of regional market integration has not been completed.
The benefits are expected to be significant: it has been estimated that if SEE were to
operate as a regionally integrated system dispatching on a least-cost basis, operating costs
could be reduced by 11-15 percent.
ECSEE APL2-Albania Project: An ex-post cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the
IDA-financed part of the investment component. The benefits of new investments include
additional energy served due to better availability of substations and lower operation and
maintenance (O&M) costs. For economic analysis, the additional energy served has been
valued at the marginal cost of supply (i.e., the cost of imported electricity). Together with
saved O&M costs, it comprises economic benefits of the completed investments. For
financial analysis, the additional energy served has been valued at current approved
transmission tariff. Together with saved O&M costs, it represents financial gains to the
TSO due to the implemented investments.
The economic internal rate of return (IERR) of the IDA-financed investment component
is estimated to be 40 percent and the net present value (NPV) at a 10 percent discount
rate is 46.7 million Euros (or 6.5 billion Lek). The financial internal rate of return (FIRR)
of the implemented investments is 3 percent. The reason for low FIRR is by design and
consistent with the current regulatory regime. The Government wishes to keep the retail
tariffs as low as possible and does not necessarily require market-related returns on its
equity; it prefers to finance transmission assets through borrowings. Accordingly, the
transmission tariff is based on a return on its asset base (effectively project CAPEX) that
is the weighted average between the Bank of Albania long-term treasury rate (~7 percent)
and is the average borrowing rate (~2 percent). All of this is incorporated into published
tariff methodology and quite normal for a wholly state-owned monopoly such as TSO.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The Project is considered to be satisfactory in terms of the overall outcome. APL as an
instrument has proven to be successful. During the life of the Project, the Government
implemented a number of sector and electricity market reforms, though further reforms
are necessary to bring Albania’s legal framework in compliance with ECSEE obligations.
By the time the Project closed, both IDA-financed investments and technical assistance
were completed; reliability of power transmission system and capacity of TSO improved,
as reflected in the respective monitoring indicators. As discussed above, the PDO remains
highly relevant to the current priorities of the Government and the Bank.



                                              13
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
N/a
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
During Project implementation, TSO introduced changes to its business practices. They
include: improved planning (TSO business plan is being updated annually); improved
reporting (regular annual reports, combining financial, corporate and operation
information, are published online, although only in Albanian); TSO submits regular
tariffs filings to ERE, following the methodology outlined in the Regulator Statement;
TSO’s financial audits are conducted based on IFRS; capacity of the TSO to manage
investment projects has increased.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/a
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/a

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The risk to the development outcome has been evaluated with respect to a number of
criteria as summarized below:
•     ECSEE initiative risks are assessed as moderate. Due to the outdated Power Law,
      Albania remains one of the ECSEE parties that is further away from compliance with
      the acquis. Postponing the approval of the new Power Law, which is now in draft
      with the Government, would hinder Albania’s compliance with the ECSEE Treaty
      requirements further.
•     Power system reliability risks are assessed as moderate. Without transmission
      system expansion to meet growing local and regional demand and compliance with
      the ENTSO-E requirements for operational network security, Albanian power system
      could not be properly integrated into the regional market.
•     TSO capacity risks are assessed as moderate. Transparency and capacity of TSO to
      operate Albanian electricity market needs further strengthening. Without an efficient,
      transparent and capable TSO, Albania’s effective participation in the regional market
      could be put at risk.
•     Technical risks are assessed as low and manageable. The technologies introduced are
      well established; TSO has capacity to insure technical sustainability of rehabilitated
      substations.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                             14
The Bank selected a project that provided much-needed support to the sector and
prepared it well. The selection of the APL instrument was appropriate. It allowed
addressing reliability and security issues of the Albanian power system using consistent
regional approach. Applicable safeguards were identified. The Project was linked to the
continued effort to promote regional integration and improve Albanian energy sector
performance. However, not all of the risks were properly mitigated at the design stage.
Because of the ongoing sector unbundling at the time of appraisal, the Project should
have specified conditions and milestones for transfer of responsibility for Project
implementation to TSO.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank followed closely Project execution and provided guidance in critical moments.
Supervision of the Project was carried out on a regular basis, with numerous formal
missions over the Project life, including a detailed mid-term review. The Bank team’s
recommendations during the mid-term review were instrumental in solving the
procurement issues. Critical Project and sector-related issues were addressed via Aide
Memoires. After Project implementation responsibility was transferred to TSO, the Bank
team developed and agreed with TSO an action plan to improve its FM capacity and
strengthen Project systems and controls. However, the team should have recognized the
need and restructured the Project at an earlier stage of the implementation process. Also,
it would have been of benefit had the team recognized during the time of the second
restructuring that a part of the Project financing would not be used; that would have
allowed utilizing IDA funds in full.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Based on moderately satisfactory quality at entry and moderately satisfactory supervision,
the overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Government supported the Project throughout its execution. It introduced a number
of important sector and electricity market reforms in compliance with the Athens Treaty
requirements. However, more sector and market reforms are needed for Albania to fulfill
its obligations under the ECSEE initiative. Most of those are addressed in the current
draft for a new Power Law, which has not been adopted yet.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The financial and procurement functions were performed in a satisfactory manner by the
PIU. The PIU provided quality technical management of Project implementation, which
allowed them to terminate the implementation support contract. The PIU was prepared
for missions and complied with requests for supplementary information. Field trips to
observe implementation progress were efficiently organized. Missions received attention

                                           15
of the top management. However, both KESH and TSO could have shown more
determination in pursuing resolution of problems encountered during procurement stage.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Based on moderately satisfactory rating of the Government and implementing agency
performance, the overall Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
Development of a functioning electricity market is a complex undertaking which
requires coordinated actions from the Government, sector regulator and TSO.
Strong commitment from the Government; competent and committed staff in the
regulatory agency and transmission utility; consistent donor support with regular progress
monitoring against agreed benchmarks, are essential in this process.
Capacity building of a TSO is crucial in facilitating effective integration of a
subsidiary market into a regional electricity market. TSOs should be able and
properly equipped to operate internal electricity markets and monitor compliance of the
system with regional market requirements.
Choice of the APL instrument could be successful in addressing regional policy,
country sector policy and infrastructure issues when physical investments are
properly leveraged with appropriate policy actions and supported by
complimentary activities. Successful achievement of the ECSEE APL 2-Albania PDO
was facilitated by other operations: it benefited from ongoing dialogue as a part of other
projects (PSRRP and PSGRP) and the MDG-F-financed fee-for-service activities.
All the risks should be properly mitigated at design stage, including sector risks.
Proper mitigation of sector risks, such as ongoing unbundling, could prevent unnecessary
delays during the project implementation stage.
Opportune restructuring of a project should be recognized through continuous
tracing of project performance. The Project provided an example of how a simple
restructuring made a difference in implementation and contributed to successful
achievement of the PDO. The Project would have benefited had the restructuring taken
place sooner, when issues of unclear responsibility under the Project had been identified.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Borrower’s comments on the draft ICR were received and were taken into account.
(b) Cofinanciers
The Bank concurs with EBRD’s comments regarding Project delays due to disagreements
between KESH, TSO and implementation consultants and unclear division of
responsibilities under the Project between KESH and TSO.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/a

                                           16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                        Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
Components                                              Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                        millions)

Investment Component                        43.398                 45.961                 106%
Technical Assistance
                                              2.4                   2.13                   89%
Component
Total Baseline Cost                         45.798                 48.091                 105%
Physical Contingencies                       4.339                  0.00                   0.00
Price Contingencies                          0.742                  0.00                   0.00
Unallocated                                  1.260
Total Project Costs                         52.139                 48.091                  92%
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                   0.00                  0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                   0.00                  0.00
Total Financing Required                    52.139                  48.09                  92%


(b) Financing

                                                     Appraisal           Actual/Latest
                                                                                       Percentage
                                         Type of     Estimate            Estimate
Source of Funds                                                                        of
                                         Cofinancing (USD                (USD
                                                                                       Appraisal
                                                     millions)           millions)
 Borrower                                                 5.14                5.814       113%
 European Bank for Reconstruction
                                  Loan                       20.008           20.00 9         100%
and Development
 International Development
                                  IDA Credit                  27.00           22.274           82%
Association (IDA)
Total                                                         52.14           48.09            92%




9
  At the time of appraisal, EBRD committed Euro 16 million, or US$20 million, to the Project. At the time
of the ICR preparation, EBRD’s latest cost estimate remained Euro 16 million, or US$20.8 million at
current exchange rate.

                                                    17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Project consisted of two components:
1. Investment component:
   a. Replacement of high-voltage equipment in six transmission substations;
   b. Installation of control and protection systems in six transmission substations.
2. Technical assistance component:
   a. Procurement activities and supervision of Project implementation;
   b. Strengthening of the TSO;
   c. An electricity tariff study;
   d. Improving procurement procedures for importing electricity.

Table A2.1: Investment Component: Planned and Actually Installed High Voltage
           Equipment and Control and Protection Systems

a.         Transformer Bays
                                                                    kV Level
Substations        Funding             400                   220                   110                      35
                                Planned   Installed   Planned   Installed   Planned   Installed   Planned    Installed

                                                        3          3          3          3          3            3
Elbasan 1
Fier                  IDA                               2          2          8          4*         3            3

                                                        2          2          2          4          3            3
Tirana 1

Burelli                                                 2          2          2          2

Elbasan 2            EBRD          1         1          1          1
                                                                                        In
Fierza                                                                        1       process

                                   1         1          10         10         16         13         9            9
TOTAL
*
    At implementation stage, only 4 transformer bays were needed

b.         Line Bays
                                                                    kV Level
Substations        Funding             400                   220                   110                      35
                                Planned   Installed   Planned   Installed   Planned   Installed   Planned    Installed

                                                        5          5          6          6          6            6
Elbasan 1
                      IDA                               2          2          5          5          6            6
Fier
                                                        6          6          4          4          6            6
Tirana 1

Burelli                                                 2          2          2          2

Elbasan 2            EBRD          1         1          3          3
                                                                                        In
Fierza                                                                        2       process

                                   1         1          18         18         19         17         18           18
TOTAL

                                                       18
       c.          Bus Coupler Bays
                                                                                      kV Level
       Substations       Funding                  400                         220                      110                            35
                                      Planned        Installed      Planned     Installed       Planned     Installed       Planned    Installed

                                                                      1              1            2            2              2                2
       Elbasan 1
                            IDA                                       1              1            1            1              2                2
       Fier
                                                                      1              1            1            1              2                2
       Tirana 1

       Burelli                                                        1              1            1            1

       Elbasan 2           EBRD                                       1              1

       Fierza
                                          0               0           5              5            5            5              6                6
       TOTAL


       d.          Bus Bar Measuring Bays and Control and Protection Systems
                                                               kV Level                                                 Control and
         Substations       Funding                  220                        110                Funding                Protection
                                          Planned       Installed    Planned        Installed                      Planned        Installed
                                                                                                                     Installed by EIB
         Elbasan 1                            2               2           3              3                          before the Project
                              IDA             2               2           2              2            IDA               1                  1
         Fier
                                                                                                                     Installed by EIB
         Tirana 1                             2               2           2              2                          before the Project

                                              2               2           2              2                              1                  1
         Burelli
                                              2               2                                                         1                  1
         Elbasan 2
                                                                                       In                               1         In process
         Fierza              EBRD                                         1         process        EBRD
                                                                                                                        1         In process
         Komani
                                                                                                                        1         In process
         Vau Dejes
                                              10              10          10             9                              6                  3
         TOTAL


       Table A2.2: Technical Assistance Component: Planned and Actually Completed
                                                        Actually Completed Technical                               Status of Recommendations’
       Planned Technical Assistance                                                                                      Implementation
                                                                  Assistance
                                                  (i) Support of procurement activities
    (i) Support of procurement activities;        completed;
1   (ii) Supervision of Project                   (ii) Implementation support contract
    implementation                                terminated for implementation stage
    TSO strengthening:                                                                                       (i) business plan adopted and being
    (i) development of a business plan            (i) business plan developed; Albanian                      implemented; updated annually
    for TSO;                                      electricity sector financial model                         using the developed model
2                                                 developed
    (ii) development of a TSO                     (ii) Reports on TSO strengthening were
                                                  prepared that included: suggested new                      (ii) TSO partially implemented the
    organization structure; development                                                                      recommendations of the reports.

                                                                     19
                                                       Actually Completed Technical              Status of Recommendations’
          Planned Technical Assistance                                                                  Implementation
                                                                  Assistance
       of business and managerial processes       organizational structure and processes     Organizational structure, processes
       including procurement, billing and         (including new organization design, job    and human resources plan were
       collection; preparation a human            descriptions, suggested new organization   adopted, as advised by the
       resources plan and Book of Ethics;         chart), Book of Ethics, new human          recommendations. The new
       development of a salary scale;             resources plan (including selection        organizational structure now
       creation of a Book of Rules;               guidelines, staff plan and performance     includes, besides transmission
                                                  management guidelines), suggested          network management and system
                                                  salary;                                    operation divisions, a market
                                                                                             operation division. The new
                                                                                             structure now supports HR, Finance
                                                                                             and Procurement departments.
                                                                                             However, two additional
                                                                                             departments were created that were
                                                                                             not recommended: Investments and
                                                                                             OST Security. Market operation
                                                                                             division remains weak. Also, TSO
                                                                                             still needs to improve financial
                                                                                             separation between the divisions.
       (iii) help to put in place new financial   (iii) new accounting software acquired     (iii) TSO’s financial audits are
       and accounting systems; creation of        and installed                              conducted based on IFRS; the new
       an opening balance sheet;                                                             accounting software is only used for
                                                                                             accounting and consolidation of the
                                                                                             Project transactions into financial
                                                                                             reports of TSO
       (iv) estimation of a transmission          (iv) financial model developed that        (iv) developed model is used by
       tariff based on the approved               follows tariff calculation methodology     TSO for tariff applications to ERE
       methodology                                outlined in the new Regulatory Statement
                                                                                             TSO had used the materials from the
                                                                                             study to support their tariff
       Electricity tariff study                   Completed                                  applications to ERE in 2007 and
 3
                                                                                             2008, before the new Regulatory
                                                                                             Statement was adopted
                                                  Recommendations to improve                 Relevant amendments to the
       Improving procurement procedures           procurement procedures for electricity     procedures were passed by the
 4     for importing electricity                  imports were presented to the              Parliament in February, 2008
                                                  Government in 2007


          Tabl3 A2.3: Performance indicators
                                                                                                                      Percent of
                                  Baseline                    Target                           Current                 Target
                                                                                   ECSEE treaty is binding. The
                                                                                   Power law was amended; as a
ECSEE APL:                                                                                                             Partially
                                                    Regional electricity market    result, Albania now has 7
Regional market                   Negligible                                                                           Achieved
                                                    is functional                  eligible customers with annual
liberalization
                                                                                   consumption of 684 GWh in
                                                                                   2011
                                                                                   6276 GWh to the distribution
Capacity to transmit                                Equal or greater than                                               116%
                              6,000 GWh                                            network; 684 GWh to HV
electricity improved                                baseline
                                                                                   customers




                                                                20
                                                                                                              Percent of
                              Baseline                     Target                       Current                Target

TSO functioning        TSO established with      Final recommendations
improved based on      limited operational       from technical assistance   The final recommendations were
implementation of                                                                                             Partially
                       capability                submitted and decisions     submitted. Some of the
recommendations                                                                                               Achieved
                                                 have been taken to          recommendations are being
from technical                                   implement them              implemented
assistance
                       Final recommendations
Existing               of technical assistance
procurement            submitted and decisions   Consultants prepared a      Government presented to
procedures are         taken to implement        report of procurement in    Council of Ministers relevant      100%
cumbersome and         them by appropriate       2007                        amendments, which were passed
result in delays and   changes in the relevant                               in February, 2008
non-compliant bids     legislation
Increased
availability of               85.42%                         98%                                                100%
rehabilitated                                                                            98.5%
substations

Reduced number of
energy outages in         50 outages/ year             20 outages/ year                                         100%
the rehabilitated                                                                   20 outages/ year
substations




                                                             21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
The analysis below covers the IDA-financed investment component of the Project.
Methodology. The economic analysis seeks to find the Net Present Value (NPV) and the
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of the three substations rehabilitation
investments (in Elbasan 1, Fier and Tirana 1), with the following net costs and benefits:
•        Costs: The investment costs of the IDA-financed investment component were 18
million Euros; expenditure began in 2009.
•        Benefits: The benefits include the additional energy served and lower O&M costs
because of the Project-financed investments. It is assumed that electricity demand would
grow at about 2 percent per year; the new rehabilitated substations would be able to
satisfy this growth in full. Without the Project, the availability of substations would be
less: they would be able to satisfy only 1.8 percent of the growing demand. This
availability of the non-rehabilitated substations would come at increasing costs of O&M.
It is assumed that the O&M costs without the Project would grow 3 percent annually to
provide appropriate availability of the substations with old equipment. The rehabilitated
substations are expected to deliver full benefits in 2012.
For economic analysis, the additional energy served is valued at the marginal cost of
supply, which is the cost of imported electricity: in order to satisfy the demand in full, the
distribution company would have to import. Together with saved O&M costs, it
represents economic benefits of the Project. The current cost of imports to Albania is 60
Euros/ MWh, or 6 Eurocents/ kWh (8.4 Lek/ kWh). For financial analysis, the additional
energy served is valued at current approved transmission tariff, 0.65 Lek/ kWh. Together
with saved O&M costs, it represents financial gains to TSO due to the implemented
investments.
The costs and benefits of the IDA-financed investment component of the Project over a
25-year period in economic and financial terms are shown in Tables A3.1 and A3.2.
Economic internal rate of return (EIRR): Under the assumptions above, the EIRR of the
IDA-financed investment component is 40% and the NPV at 10% discount rate is 46.7
million Euros (or 6.5 billion Lek).
Financial internal rate of return (FIRR): Under the assumptions above, the FIRR of the
IDA-financed investment component is 3% and the NPV at 10% discount rate is -6.2
million Euros (or -0.8 billion Lek). The financial internal rate of return (FIRR) of the
implemented investments is 3 percent and the NPV at 10 percent discount rate is -6.2
million Euros (or -0.8 billion Lek). The reason for low FIRR and negative NPV is by
design and consistent with the current regulatory regime. The Government wishes to keep
the retail tariffs as low as possible and does not necessarily require market related returns
on its equity; it prefers to finance transmission assets through borrowings. Accordingly,
the transmission tariff is based on a return on its asset base (effectively project CAPEX)
that is the weighted average between the Bank of Albania long-term treasury rate of
about 7%, and is the average borrowing rate of about 2%. All of this is included into to
published tariff methodology and quite normal for a wholly owned state run monopoly
such as TSO.


                                             22
              Table A3.1: Economic Cash Flow, Rehabilitation of Elbasan 1, Fier and Tirana 1 Substations
                                                  2006       2007    2008      2009         2010         2011         2012         2013         2014        2015         2016          2030          2031        2032
Cost
                               Elbasan 1 (€)        0         0        0      552,214     2,895,212    1,376,831     748,617         0            0            0           0             0                0        0
                                     Fier (€)       0         0        0      732,376     4,465,745    1,348,502    1,154,973        0            0            0           0             0                0        0
                                Tirana 1 (€)        0         0        0      458,265     2,264,298    1,301,776     628,702         0            0            0           0             0                0        0
                   Total investment costs (€)                                1,742,855    9,625,254    4,027,110    2,532,293
                    TOTAL COSTS (kLek)*             0         0        0      230,127     1,326,071     565,165      355,382         0            0            0           0             0                0        0
Benefits
a. Net O&M costs
O&M costs, w/ the Project
                             Elbasan 1( kLek)     2,412      2,412   2,412     2,092        8,634       11,038       11,060       11,082       11,104       11,104       11,104       11,104        11,104      11,104
                                  Fier( kLek)     2,622      2,622   2,622     2,256        6,131       2,911        2,917        2,923        2,929        2,929        2,929         2,929         2,929       2,929
                              Tirana 1( kLek)     3,417      3,417   3,417     1,973         146         512          513          514          515          515          515           515           515         515
O&M costs, w/o the Project
                            Elbasan 1( kLek)      2,412      2,412   2,412     2,092        8,634        8,893        9,160        9,435       9,718        10,009       10,310       15,594         16,062     16,544
                                 Fier( kLek)      2,622      2,622   2,622     2,256        6,131        6,315        6,504        6,700       6,901         7,108        7,321       11,073         11,406     11,748
                             Tirana 1( kLek)      3,417      3,417   3,417     1,973         146          150          154          159         164           169          174          263           271         279
                       Net O&M costs (kLek)         0          0       0         0            0          -897        -1,329       -1,774       -2,234       -2,738       -3,256       -12,382       -13,190     -14,023
b. Net Energy Served
Total energy delivered to distribution (GWh)      5,617      5,186   5,758     6,061        6,059        6,276        6,415        6,556        6,700       6,847        6,998         9,490         9,699       9,913
Energy served w/ the Project
                            Elbasan 1(GWh)         372        344     382       402          402          416          424          433          441         450          459           606           618         630
                                   Fier(GWh)       946        873     969      1,020        1,020        1,057        1,078        1,099        1,121       1,144        1,167         1,539         1,570       1,602
                              Tirana 1(GWh)       2,746      2,535   2,815     2,962        2,962        3,068        3,129        3,192        3,256       3,321        3,387         4,470         4,559       4,650
Energy served w/o the Project
                            Elbasan 1(GWh)         372        344     382       402          402          409          416          424         431          439          447           574           584         595
                                   Fier(GWh)       946        873     969      1,020        1,020        1,038        1,057        1,076       1,096        1,115        1,135         1,457         1,484       1,510
                              Tirana 1(GWh)       2,746      2,535   2,815     2,962        2,962        3,015        3,070        3,125       3,181        3,238        3,297         4,232         4,308       4,386
                   Net energy served (GWh)          0          0       0         0            0            78           89           99         111          122          134           444           483         524
                   Net energy served (kLek)         0          0       0         0            0         656,374      744,471      835,680     930,087     1,027,781    1,128,852     3,725,785     4,059,496   4,403,770
       TOTAL ECONOMIC BENEFITS (kLek)               0          0       0         0            0         657,270      745,800      837,455     932,321     1,030,518    1,132,108     3,738,167     4,072,687   4,417,792

NET CASH FLOW (kLek)                                0         0        0      -230,127    -1,326,071     92,106      390,418      837,455      932,321    1,030,518    1,132,108    3,738,167     4,072,687    4,417,792
NET CASH FLOW (€)*                                  0         0        0     -1,742,855   -9,625,254    656,305     2,781,943    5,967,326    6,643,304   7,343,013    8,066,895    26,636,507    29,020,141   31,479,209
                                      IRR       40%
                            NPV@10% (kLek)      6,542,441
                               NPV@10% (€)      46,438,658           * Exchange rate for €1: 123 Lek in 2006, 124 Lek in 2007, 123 Lek in 2008, 132 Lek in 2009, 138 Lek in 2010 and 140 Lek hereafter.




                                                                                                         23
           Table A3.1: Financial Cash Flow, Rehabilitation of Elbasan 1, Fier and Tirana 1 Substations
                                                  2006       2007    2008       2009         2010            2011         2012        2013      2014       2015       2016        2030         2031        2032
Cost
                               Elbasan 1 (€)        0         0        0       552,214     2,895,212        1,376,831    748,617       0          0          0          0           0            0           0
                                     Fier (€)       0         0        0       732,376     4,465,745        1,348,502   1,154,973      0          0          0          0           0            0           0
                                Tirana 1 (€)        0         0        0       458,265     2,264,298        1,301,776    628,702       0          0          0          0           0            0           0
                   Total investment costs (€)                                 1,742,855    9,625,254        4,027,110   2,532,293
                    TOTAL COSTS (kLek)*             0         0        0       230,127     1,326,071         565,165     355,382       0          0          0          0           0            0           0
Benefits
a. Net O&M costs
O&M costs, w/ the Project
                         Elbasan 1( kLek)         2,412      2,412   2,412      2,092        8,634           11,038      11,060      11,082     11,104     11,104     11,104      11,104       11,104      11,104
                               Fier( kLek)        2,622      2,622   2,622      2,256        6,131           2,911       2,917       2,923      2,929      2,929      2,929       2,929        2,929       2,929
                           Tirana 1( kLek)        3,417      3,417   3,417      1,973         146             512         513         514        515        515        515         515          515         515
O&M costs, w/o the Project
                         Elbasan 1( kLek)         2,412      2,412   2,412      2,092        8,634           8,893         9,160     9,435       9,718     10,009     10,310      15,594       16,062       16,544
                               Fier( kLek)        2,622      2,622   2,622      2,256        6,131           6,315         6,504     6,700       6,901      7,108      7,321      11,073       11,406       11,748
                           Tirana 1( kLek)        3,417      3,417   3,417      1,973         146             150           154       159         164        169        174        263          271          279
                   Net O&M costs (kLek)             0          0       0          0            0             -897         -1,329     -1,774     -2,234     -2,738     -3,256     -12,382      -13,190      -14,023
b. Net Energy Served
     Total energy delivered to distribution       5,617      5,186   5,758      6,061        6,059           6,276        6,415       6,556     6,700      6,847      6,998       9,490        9,699       9,913
Energy served w/ the Project        (    h)
                          Elbasan 1(GWh)           372        344     382        402          402             416          424         433       441        450        459         606          618         630
                               Fier(GWh)           946        873     969       1,020        1,020           1,057        1,078       1,099     1,121      1,144      1,167       1,539        1,570       1,602
                           Tirana 1(GWh)          2,746      2,535   2,815      2,962        2,962           3,068        3,129       3,192     3,256      3,321      3,387       4,470        4,559       4,650
Energy served w/o the Project
                          Elbasan 1(GWh)           372        344     382        402          402             409         416         424        431        439        447         574          584         595
                               Fier(GWh)           946        873     969       1,020        1,020           1,038       1,057       1,076      1,096      1,115      1,135       1,457        1,484       1,510
                           Tirana 1(GWh)          2,746      2,535   2,815      2,962        2,962           3,015       3,070       3,125      3,181      3,238      3,297       4,232        4,308       4,386
                 Net energy served (GWh)            0          0       0          0            0               78          89          99        111        122        134         444          483         524
                 Net energy served (kLek)           0          0       0          0            0             50,791      57,608      64,666     71,971     79,531     87,352     288,305      314,128     340,768
       TOTAL FINANCIAL BENEFITS (kLek)              0          0       0          0            0             51,688      58,937      66,440     74,205     82,268     90,608     300,687      327,318     354,790

NET CASH FLOW (kLek)                                 0        0        0      -230,127     -1,326,071     -513,477       -296,445     66,440    74,205     82,268     90,608     300,687      327,318      354,790
NET CASH FLOW (€)*                                   0        0        0     -1,742,855    -9,625,254    -3,658,806     -2,112,337   473,422   528,752    586,206    645,630    2,142,563    2,332,322    2,528,078
                                    IRR             3%
                          NPV@10% (kLek)         -837,932
                             NPV@10% (€)        -6,150,583           * Exchange rate for €1: 123 Lek in 2006, 124 Lek in 2007, 123 Lek in 2008, 132 Lek in 2009, 138 Lek in 2010 and 140 Lek hereafter.




                                                                                                       24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                 Responsibility/
Names                   Title                            Unit
                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Iftikhar Khalil         Project Team Leader/Engineer     ECSIE
Kirsten Propst          Counsel                          LEGEC
Artan Guxho             Operations Officer               ECSIE
Edward Daoud            Senior Finance Officer           LOAG1
Richard Hamilton        Consultant Energy Economist      ECSIE
Kishore Nadkarni        Financial Analyst                ECSIE
Olav Rex Christensen    Sr. Financial Mgnt Specialist    ECSPS
Bernard Baratz          Consultant                       ECSSD
Angelica Fernandes      Procurement Analyst              ECSIE
Yolanda Gedse           Program Assistant                ECSIE

Supervision/ICR
Bernard Baratz          Consultant                       EASCS
Olav Rex Christensen    Senior Public Finance Speciali   HDNED
Gazmend Daci            Energy Specialist                ECSEG
Angelica A. Fernandes   Consultant                       ECSO2
Yolanda Litan Gedse     Program Assistant                ECSSD
Elona Gjika             Financial Management Specialis   ECSOQ
Artan Guxho             Senior Infrastructure Speciali   ECSS5
Richard E. Hamilton     Consultant                       CEUIF
Charles A. Husband      Consultant                       ECSEG
Ida N. Muhoho           Sr Financial Mgnt. Specialist    ECSO3
Kishore Nadkarni        Consultant                       ECSEG
Margaret Png            Lead Counsel                     LEGEM
Edon Vrenezi            Operations Officer               LCSDE
Salvador Rivera         Lead Energy Specialist           ECSEG
Yadviga Semikolenova    Energy Economist                 ECSEG




                                      25
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including
                          No. of staff weeks
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY05                      18                          157.53
FY06                                                  -0.39
Total:                    18                          157.14

Supervision/ICR
FY05                                                  0.00
FY06                      10                          56.80
FY07                      18                          95.50
FY08                      10                          43.11
FY09                      14                          52.24
FY10                                                  72.56
FY11                                                  78.74
FY12                                                  57.95
FY13

Total:                                                456.90




                                   26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/a




                                      27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/a




                                   28
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Annex 7A. Summary of Borrower's ICR

The full text of the Borrower’s completion report is attached to the Project files. Below is
the summary of the Borrower’s assessment of the outcomes and lessons learned.




                                                                              Bulevardi. Gjergj Fishta
                                                                                     Tirane, Shqipëri


                                                                                Tel +355 4 2225581
                                                                                Fax +355 4 2225581
                                                                                          info@ost.al




                                     Document for
                                    The World Bank

                                          Report

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT (IDA-40870
                          ALB)


                                      ON A CREDIT
 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.7 MILLION (US$ 27 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                      TO ALBANIA
                                           FOR

         ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE (ECSEE) - APL2


                                     November, 2012




                                            29
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
3.1 PART A- replacement of high – voltage equipment, and control and protection systems
    in the substations;
3.1.1 PART A-1:"The reconstruction of 220/110/35 kV substations Tirana 1, Fier and
      Elbasan-1"
The contract consists in:
- The replacement of old and depreciated primary equipment in three substations.
- Transfer of 35kV system from the external to internal.
- Creation of appropriate premises/work environments for safe operation and needed
space for maneuver by building substations fences, earth and illumination networks,
internal roads and refurbishment (whitewashing) of metallic constructions and existing
portals.
- Building new regional dispatching center at Fier substation, the renewal of monitoring
control and protection relay system, as well as the renewal of existing concrete armed
structures with new galvanized metallic structure.
Scope of Supply
220/110/35 kV Fier Substation
•      New control, protection and measuring system for all 220 kV bays, except
otherwise specified elsewhere.
•      New control protection and measuring system for all 110kV bays, except
otherwise specified elsewhere.
•      New distribution in metal-clad switchboard, control, protection and measuring
system for all 35 kV feeders,
•      Computerized substation control and automation system,
•      All auxiliaries Services supplies,
•      All Civil works (such as main control room, MV switchboards room, LV and DC
switchboards room, battery room, Telecom room, cable rooms, cable trenches etc.)
•      Civil works for installation of new marshalling kiosks (1 kiosk per bay) outside in
the switchyard, cable ducts/trenches outside the building, between marshalling kiosks and
cable entrance to the building,
•      Installation of the control , protection and metering cubicles in main control room,
•      New cabling to connect the new control & protection relay system as well as
necessary interfaces to the existing Power Plant.
Control concept for Fier. The levels of control shall be as follows:
•       Substation control (all three voltage levels) from the operator’s desk in main
control room by means of HMI (Human Machine Interface) and computerized substation
automation system.
•       Bay control from respective control panels for the 220/110 kV feeders which shall
be located in the substation control room ,



                                              30
•       Direct control (mechanical of electrical) of the 220/110 kV switching devices
(circuit breaker, disconnect switches, earthing switches) at the primary equipment outside
in the switchyard.
•       Direct control from the LV compartment of the metal-clad switchgear 35 kV.
The bay control units, the substation control unit and the numerical protection relays shall
be interlinked with fiber-optics.
220/110/335/kV Tirana 1 and Elbasan 1 Substations
•       New distribution in metal-clad switchboard, control, protection and measuring
system for all 35 kV feeders
•       Integration and interface of the new equipment in the existing Computerized
substation control and automation system ,
•       All supplementary auxiliaries Services supplies,
•       All Civil works ( such as MV switchboard room , LV and DC switchboard room,
cable room, cable trenches etc.) to provide shelter for the 35 kV metal clad switchgear,
•       Civil work for installation of new marshalling kiosk ( 1 kiosk per bay ) outside in
the switchyard , cable ducts/trenches outside the control building ,between marshalling
kiosk and cable entrance to the control building as well as the 35 kV building,
•       Installation of the control ,protection and metering cubicles in the existing main
control room ,
•       New cabling to connect the new control & protection relay system as well as
necessary interfaces to the existing control, protection and monitoring system.
Control concept for Tirana1 and Elbasan1. The control, measure, protection, and
metering for Tirana1, and Elbasa1, are existing. The levels of control shall be as follows:
•       Substation control (all three voltage levels) from the operator’s desk in main
control room by means of HMI (Human Machine Interface) and computerized substation
automation system ,
•       Bay control from the respective control panels for the 220/110 kV feeders which
shall be located in the substation control room ,
•       Direct control (mechanical or electrical) of the 220/ 110 kV switching
devices( circuit breaker ,disconnect switches, earthing switches) at the primary equipment
outside in the switchyard ,
•       Direct control from LV compartment of the switchgear 35 kV, which shall be
located in a separate building.
The bay control units, the substation control unit and the numeric al protection relays
shall be interlinked with fiber-optics.
Issues:
The procurement was carried out consistent with Bank Guidelines and in accordance with
the methods and thresholds specified in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), but it
resulted with long delays due to protracted procurement disputes on the key Supply and
Install contract for the investment component-rehabilitation of substations in extremely
poor conditions.

                                            31
The contract was finally signed with KESH in May 2009, however, the transfer of the
contract to ATSO (the implementing agency after the unbundling) did not take place at
that time due to: (i) the unbundling and privatization process which slowed down the
needed due diligence of implementation and financial management capacity of ATSO;
(ii) in the absence of this due diligence and transfer of contractual responsibilities to
ATSO, ATSO could not mobilize or open the L/C with the contractor; and (iii) delays
during the process of unbundling and privatization in the transfer of assets and liabilities
among KESH, ATSO and Distribution System Operator, OSSH.
Therefore, the project team conducted a due diligence of ATSO and, subsequently,
reviewed and agreed to the reassignment of contractual responsibilities from KESH to
ATSO in February 2010. With these actions taken, ATSO has managed to open the L/C
(which is the instrument of payment of the contract), has updated the implementation
schedule and mobilized the contractor, which has in turn led to progress in
implementation and an increase in disbursement from of the Credit amount.
Works recognized intensive performance/development from October 2010 to May 2012.
With the termination of the works, we are satisfied to see that the three substations are
new not only from technical but also from environmental point of view. To complete this
project were needed more than 60 overnight shifts (taking additional measures) and over
250 outages of line tracks (bays), minimally one month, each. This was also dedicated to
the fact that end-users (customers) were not left for a long time without power supply at
any case.
Safeguard Policies
This project is utterly reconstruction, meaning that its implementation would be conducted at the
presence of 220, 110 kV, 35 kV and 0.4 kV voltages without outage or cutting the supply to
consumers. Because of that, since at its (project) outset, strict measures were taken for the
application of rules for technical safety at work by appointing responsible persons (charged with
the task) both from ATSO and the Contractor. Also special attention was dedicated to waste posts
(this was done in cooperation with local authorities) observing applicable laws and WB
requirements in effect, as respective measures were taken for the rehabilitation of facilities
attacked.
Environmental risk
No environmental risk is seen as the whole project is developed under the strict supervision and
monitoring control of ATSO experts who have not allowed violation of effective legislation and
WB requirements in effect.
3.2     PART B: Technical Assistance
3.2.1   Procurement activities and supervision of project implementation;
The contract was signed on January 24, 2006. The objectives of the contract were as following:
-       To guarantee the perfect bid organization and optimal evaluation according relative
standards
-       To negotiate and manage in the ATSO profitable way for the client the contracts
-       To conduct supervision of the works to assist project implementation guaranteeing the
highest quality the lowest ATSO and shortest construction period

                                               32
-         Provision of training to PMU and ATSO.
On April 21, 2009, the contract was amended because in order to reflect the changes that were
made to first proposal, were all the lots I, II, III contractor’s bid were scheduled to be floated at
the same time, July 2006 and the evaluation of the bids would not exceed four weeks for all
contract negotiations. Also the consultant claimed, that they provided additional services that
were not included in the initial proposal, such as additional site visits of the substations of Lot I,
followed be several meetings in KESH‘s offices to decide the work to be included in the Bid
Documents for the contractors, as well as for more than 45 days for this bids evaluation.
Despite the efforts put by ATSO and also KESH to get the best service from the
consultant, the consortium didn’t provide the service required by them. During the
supervision, it was founded out that the designs and also the predictions were in many
cases incorrect. Also the consultant was not present during the implementation of the
contract; therefore, from ATSO there was a full commitment in order to supervise and to
assure a successful project implementation.
3.2.1     Strengthening of the ATSO
The contract was signed on January 2006. The technical assistance to strengthen ATSO will be
financed from the IDA Credit for Energy Community of South East Europe APL2-Albania
Project.
The objective of this technical assistance was to strengthen the ATSO to enable the company to
carry out its full responsibilities in accordance with the ongoing power sector reform program, the
Transitional Market Model and Albania’s commitments as a member of the Energy Community
of South East Europe.
Detailed Tasks
(i)      Assist the ATSO to identify and determine the value of assets based on the asset
revaluation study prepared for KESH by Deloitte and American Appraisal;
(ii)     Assist in documentation and allocation of liabilities;
(iii)    Assist the ATSO to prepare a capital structure and pro-form financial statements (balance
sheet, income statement and flow and funds statement) based on the revalued assets;
(iv)     Estimate a transmission tariff based on the methodology approved by ERE;
(v)      Propose an organization structure for the ATSO;
(vi)     Prepare a human resources plan;
(vii)    Prepare a Book of the Ethics;
(viii) Propose a salary scale;
(ix)     Create a Book of Rules;
(x)      Help put in place new financial and accounting systems;
(xi)     Develop business processes including procurement, billing and collection;
(xii)    Provide assistance and training to the ATSO personnel in implementation of the business
plan for the ATSO based on the recommendations contained in the reports of the above tasks and
accepted by the KESH and ATSO.

4.         PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND PROJECT OUTCOMES
    The APL2 - Albania Project is completed. All the substations of transmission system are
    renovated with a new control and monitoring system. The objective of the project to
    extend the lifetime and improve the quality, reliability, safety and efficiency of the bulk


                                                 33
 power transmission system by replacing ageing existing facilities with new ones, is fully
 achieved. The Albania Power Transmission operates now with greater reliability.
 The forced outages of the lines and autotransformers due to defects of the bays
 equipment (circuit breaker, disconnector, current transformer, voltage transformer, surge
 arrester, and protection equipment) are reduced significantly.
 In the table below are given statistic data for the forced outages of the lines and
 autotransformers of the transmission system, caused from the damages of bays
 equipment, for the years 2008, 2009, 2010.
Outages due to bays equipment defects in years 2008,2009 and 2010

400 - 220 kV Lines                          2008            2009            2010           annual average

Name of the line                            Outage   time   Outage   time   Outage Time    Outage   time

                                            No.      h      No.      h      No.    h       No.      h

Line L.220-1 V.Dejes-Koman                  1        28.33 0         0      1      0.9     0.7      9.74

Line L.220-3 V.Dejes-Tirana1                1        6.7    2        16.8   0      0       1.0      7.83

Line L.220-4 V.Dejes-Koplik                 1        2.33   0        0      0      0       0.3      0.78

Line L.220-5 Tirana1-Elbasan1               2        3.33   0        0      0      0       0.7      1.11

Line L.220-7 Elbasan1-Fier                  3        6.25   3        9.25   0      0       2.0      5.17

Line L.220-8/1 Elbasan1-Elbasan2            2        7      3        5.4    0      0       1.7      4.13

Line L.220-8/2 Elbasan1-Elbasan2            0        0      0        0      1      0.2     0.3      0.07

Line L.220-9/1 Fierze-Burrel                0        0      2        0.7    0      0       0.7      0.23

Line L.220-9/2 Burrel-Elbasan1              3        13.1   2        21.9   0      0       1.7      11.67

Line L.220-10/1 Fierze-Titan                1        0.52   1        0      0      0       0.7      0.17

Line L.220-11 Fierze - Koman                0        0      1        0      0      0       0.3      0.00

Line L.220-12 Fierze-Prizren                0        0      5        12.8   7      23.35   4.0      12.05

Line L.220-13/1 Koman-Kolacem-Tir2          0        0      0        0      1      0.75    0.3      0.25

Line L.220-15/1 Tir1-Tir2 (Rrashbull)       1        0      1        6      1      1.5     1.0      2.50

Line L.220-16 Fier-Babice                   0        0      1        1.7    4      3.28    1.7      1.66

TOTAL                                       15       67.56 21        74.55 15      29.98   17.0     57.36

Autotransformers                            2008            2009            2010           annual average

Name of the Autotransformer                 Outage   time   Outage   time   Outage Time    Outage   time

                                            No.      h      No.      h      No.    h       No.      h

AT2 ne N/St. V.Deja                         2        5.6    0        0      0      0       0.7      1.87

AT2 - N/St. Tirana1                         0        0      0        0      1      4.1     0.3      1.37

AT1 - N/St. Fier                            0        0      0        0      1      0.2     0.3      0.07

AT2 - N/St. Fier                            0        0      0        0      1      1.25    0.3      0.42


                                                     34
TOTALE                                2         5.6    0        0      3      5.55    1.7      3.72

110 kV Lines                          2008             2009            2010           annual average

Name of the line                      Outage    time   Outage   time   Outage Time    Outage   time

                                      No.       h      No.      h      No.    h       No.      h

Line L110-19 V.Dejes-Shkoder          3         9.1    1        0.83   2      23      2.0      10.98

Line L110-20/2 Burrel-Bulqize         1         0.4    0        0      0      0       0.3      0.13

Line L110-27 Fierze-F.Arrez           1         0.6    1        1.5    2      4.7     1.3      2.27

Line L110-33 Fierze-B.Curri           0         0      1        4.16   0      0       0.3      1.39

Line L110-2/2 Tirana1-Kashar          0         0      0        0      3      5.1     1.0      1.70

Line L110-2/3 Tirana1-Kashar          0         0      1        1.1    1      4.13    0.7      1.74

Line L110-22/1 Tirane-F.Kruje         0         0      0        0      2      2       0.7      0.67

Line L110-22/2     Tirana1-Traktora   1         1.1    1        11     0      0       0.7      4.03

Line L110-16/ Elbasan1-Fiber          1         0.4    0        0      0      0       0.3      0.13

Line L110-16/1 Elbasan1-Kombinat      0         0      0        0      1      16.7    0.3      5.57

Line L110-14 Elbasan-Cerrik           1         1.75   1        1.6    0      0       0.7      1.12

Line L110-4/3 Elbasan-Ibe             0         0      0        0      1      0.83    0.3      0.28

Line L110-15 Fier-Vlore               0         0      2        6.75   0      0       0.7      2.25

Line L110-10/1 Fier-Ballsh            2         5.1    1        0.1    4      12.7    2.3      5.97

Line L110-21/2 Fier-Lushnje           1         0      2        10.47 3       10.95   2.0      7.14

Line L110-40 Fier-Selenice            2         3.3    3        4.42   3      23.83   2.7      10.52

TOTAL                                 13        21.75 14        41.93 22      103.94 16.3      55.87



 As it is presented in the table the average numbers of outages and the time have been:
 For the 400 and 220 kV Lines             average 17 outages with total duration of time 57.36
 hours.
 For the Autotransformer                   average 4 outages with total duration of time 3.72
 hours.
 For the 100 kV Lines                        average 16.3 outages with total duration of time
 55.87 hours.
 According to the statistic figures for 2012(until November 15, 2012), it results that the
 line and autotransformer outages of the transmission system, which are caused from the
 damages in the substations (bays and busbar), have been reduced significantly in number,
 and which is the most important, also in time duration.
 These data are introduced in the table below:




                                                35
             Outages in 2012 (until 15 November) due to bays equipment defects

             400 - 220 KV Lines                                       Outages    time

            Name of the line                                          No.        h

            Line L.220-4 V.Dejes-Koplik                               1          2.68

            Line L.220-7 Elbasan1-Fier                                1          0.45

            Line L.220-9/1 Fierze-Burrel                              1          4.2

            Line L.220-10/2 Titan-Tirana1                             1          0.1

            Line L.220-12 Fierze-Prizren                              2          4.1

            Line L.220-14/1 Koman-Tirana2                             1          0.37

            Total 400-220 kV Lines                                    7          11.9

            Autotransformer                                           Outages    time

            Name of the autotransformer                               No.        h

            AT1+AT2 S/s. Fierze                                       2          0.82

            AT1 - S/s. Tirana1                                        1          0.2

            AT3 - S/s. Fier                                           1          1

            Total Autotransformer                                     4          2.02

            Line 110 kV                                               Outages    time

            Name of the line                                          No.        h

            Line L110-8 V.Dejes-Bushat2                               2          3.25

            Line L110-20/1 Ulez-Burrel                                3          3

            Line L110-20/2 Burrel-Bulqize                             1          2.8

            Line L110-27 Fierze-F.Arrez                               3          3.28

            Line L110-2/2-1 Tirana1-Kashar                            1          0.42

            Line L110-2/3-1 Tirane-Kashar                             1          0.42

            Line L110-9/1 Fier-Kucove                                 1          3.33


            Total 110 kV Lines                                        12         16.5



As result of these reductions, the project itself, has given its effect on the reduction of the
un-served electricity.
The Technical Assistance in Strengthening of Albanian Transmission System Operator,
have been very important for ATSO, particularly the assistance and training to the ATSO
personnel in implementation of the business plan, estimation a transmission tariff based
on the methodology approved by ERE, and the new organization structure and
establishment of the Market Operator Directory.


                                                  36
The progress report on Albanian market reforms and their monitoring prepared by a
consultant makes an evaluation of Albanian power sector, its current condition and gives
respective recommendations on the prospect development with the intention to meet
development priorities of this sector established in the Market Model. The viewpoint and
consequently, the analysis and recommendations given in this report include all aspects
and institutions that make up the Albanian market of electricity which monitor and
regulate this market in order to fit the objectives and targets set in front of this sector. The
Market Operator, as operating entity to meet ATSO functions and liabilities considers the
analysis and the recommendations given in this report on the allocation of
interconnection capacities and the implementation of a balancing market and the
publication of market information as necessary.
The Albanian market of electricity from January, this year recognized the reset of
conditions to get the status of eligible client and because of that we have noticed an
extension of active market participants in the market of power supply provided to these
customers, thus an extension of electricity market transactions. As result of the above
developments, there is an increasing number of electricity consumers which are free to
choose their electricity supplier, and also now Albania operates in the regional power
market in accordance with the ECSEE Treaty.
     5. THE WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
WB has been periodically present with own experts inspecting the project by all
indicators and making aware its own opinion on the project performance. Cooperation
with the WB has been very fruitful and correct. WB has given it support and commitment,
during all the phases and issues of the project, but we especially emphasize that WB and
its specialist, have shown a great interest and support on the environment issues.
We must also mention the very important assistance provided by World Bank referring to the
terms of the facility management of the substations during the project implementation process, in
order to help ATSO meeting the standards of environmental requirements. Furthermore, this
assistance has served ATSO for the development of the Environmental Management System
Manual of ATSO, and control of environmental management, which previously has not been
performed by the ATSO.
In May 2012, the three reconstructed substations were set into operation within the
objectives of the project and without any serious technical problem. This shows the
fruitful and excellent cooperation between ATSO and WB.
6.       CONCLUSIONS

 The APL2 - Albania Project has fully contributed to the development of Albanian and
 regional market.
 All the substations of transmission system are rehabilitated with a new control and
 monitoring system and all the ageing existing primary equipment are replaced,
 extending the lifetime and improving the quality, reliability, safety and efficiency of the
 bulk power transmission system. Furthermore the new systems local control of the
 substations serve to the successful implementation of the project to a new system of
 control SCADA / EMS that is in the process of implementation.

                                               37
 Assistance provided through the project (Strengthening of ATSO) has served not only
to a better organization of the   structures of ATSO, but has been like a school for
development of the business plan, evaluation of assets, the calculation of transmission
tariff, etc.
Regarding the assistance provided for the implementation of the project, we have to
mention that it has been noted that in the stage of preparation of tender documents it has
been a weak assistance and also it was completely absent during the implementation
phase. Despite the problems that caused the lack of a consultant during the
implementation phase, there was a great effort by the specialists of ATSO as well as by
the experts of WB for this project, in order to assure a successful implementation of the
project.
As result of the above developments, now Albania operates in the regional power market
in accordance with the ECSEE Treaty.




Below, we present the pictures of the substations, which present their situation before the
implementation of the project and after the implementation (the completed works).
Tirana1 Substation
BEFORE (RECONSTRUCTION)




AFTER (RECONSTRUCTION)




                                            38
Fier Substation
BEFORE (RECONSTRUCTION)




AFTER (RECONSTRUCTION)




Elbasan1 Substation
Before Reconstruction




After Reconstruction




                          39
Annex 7B. Borrower’s Comments of Draft ICR

Dear Ms. Semikolenova,

Please be informed that OST, does have only one comment:

Point 2.5 , page 11:


In order to further improve reliability, safety and efficiency of Albanian bulk power
transmission system, additional investments are required and already planned by OST in
expanding the transmission network to meet growing local and regional demand. The
Albanian system also needs to meet the ENTSO-E requirements for operational network
security, therefore OST is implementing the SCADA System which will be in full
operation within May 2013. This project and also others already implemented, will
enable OST to fulfill the requirements of ENTSO-E.
Also in OST planning, are already predicted very important projects in order to meet the
local and regional demand. Among them there is the project for “ The interconnection
Line Albania –Kosovo? and also the project “110 kV circuit line South Albania?, which
are expected to start the implementation within Year 2013.


Thank you for your collaboration,
Best Regards,

Aurora Vasili
Head of PIU
OST sh.a.
Bulevardi "Gjergj Fishta"
Tirana, Albania
Po Box: 251/1
Mob: +355694086931




                                           40
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments were received from EBRD:

POWER TRANSMISSION SUBSTATIONS PROJECT – OpID 36112

Background

Sovereign guaranteed loan, signed in October 2006 for the amount of EUR 16 million10
with Korporata Elektroenergjetike Shqiptare (KESH) to support the restructuring and
commercialisation of the Albanian power sector. The project is co-financed by IBRD
(World Bank), with a sovereign guaranteed loan of USD 27.5m. The loan was declared
effective in October 2007. Total disbursement to date is EUR approximately 11 million.

The operation will enable the Transmission System Operator (OST), the actual
beneficiary after KESH’s unbundling, to finance the rehabilitation of six transmission
substations crucial to the operation of Albania's transmission system and to its
participation in the regional energy market. This infrastructure development is part of an
overall series of improvements needed in Albania and elsewhere in South East Europe for
respective domestic purposes. This rehabilitation is also expected to assist the region to
achieve a greater integration with the EU as planned under the ECSEE Treaty leading to
a single electricity market.

The overall project, including the part financed by the World Bank/IDA, comprises two
components: (A) Replacement of high-voltage equipment and control, monitoring and
protection systems in the main transmission substations; and (B) Technical assistance for
Procurement activities and supervision of project implementation, strengthening of the
OST an electricity tariff study; and improving procurement procedures for importing
electricity. The Bank is financing only part of the A component, and the procurement
process is led by the World Bank.

The project has suffered significant delays due to (i) disagreements between the client
and the international consultant on technical and financial matters related to the
preparation of tender documents; (ii) disagreement with technical solution proposed by
contractors; and (iii) unclear responsibilities between KESH and OST in the Bank’s loan
administration.

Draft bidding documents were submitted to the Bank in May 2008. The Bank reviewed
the draft documents and provided comments. For about one year the Bank’s team was
involved in a lengthy discussion with the client, the World Bank, and the consultant in
order to find ways to improve cooperation - crucial for the successful implementation of
the project. In particular, the Bank asked that the consultant allocates specific resources



10
     US$ 20 million


                                            41
to the management of the Bank-financed project components and that the Bank had more
control over this process. These issues were resolved and subsequently, on 12 June 2009
the Bank issued its no-objection to the tender documents. The tender notice was
published in the Bank's website on 22 June, 2009.

On 5 December 2012, the EBRD, OST, KESH and the Ministry of Finance Republic of
Albania signed a Novation Agreement transferring the loan to OST as the new borrower.
The Novation Agreement is expected to become effective in December 2012.

Current Status

Contract 1: CMP system for Fierza, Komani and Vau i Dejes HPP substations and
equipment for Fierza HPP substation

Original Completion Date: 24 January 2013
Estimated Final Completion Date: 24 April 2013

Physical Progress: In Fierza, significant delays were caused due to determining the
positioning of the control building, so that it would guarantee operational safety and
efficiency. The issue has now been resolved. Technical designs are completed, the
control building is ready for operation, 80-90% of civil works are performed, while
installation of electrical infrastructure is under progress. In Vau i Dejes and Komani,
technical blockage of works was caused by the inability to temporarily take out 10 kV
line during the heavy import season. A technical agreement was reached with KESH that
enabled completion of works blocked. The technical designs are completed, the control
building is constructed, 90% of civil works are finished and the installation of equipment
is underway. A change order was approved as it became evident that additional
unforeseen new equipment and replacement of old ones were necessary.

Contract 2:   Equipment and CMP system for Burreli and Elbasan 2 substation

Original Completion Date: 27 January 2012
Estimated Final Completion Date: 30 December 2012

Physical Progress: All technical design and civil works are completed. All equipment
have been delivered to the site and installed. Testing and commissioning as well as all
most of the items in the punch list are completed. The implementation in the Zemblak
unit of Elbasani 2 s/s faced delays as TSO was not able to take out the high tension line
and make the site available. According to recent TSO reporting, Zemblak installations
have resumed and are near completion, but it is critical to pay the Contractor the overdue
amounts, in order to avoid any liabilities and open the way to an agreement on the
contract extension/amendment for the Zemblak unit.




                                           42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Albania – The Second Phase of the US$1,000 Million Energy Community of South East
Europe (APL) Program Project Appraisal Document, May 2005

ECA Disbursements Learning Review – Quality Assurance Group Review of ECSEE
APL2(Albania) Project, November, 2009

Albania CPS for FY11-FY14 – The World Bank, June 2010

Energy Community of South East Europe (CESEE). Adaptive Program Loan (APL)
Program Results Brief – The World Bank, March 2012

Annual Report on the Implementation of the Aquis under the Treaty Establishing the
Energy Community – Energy Community Secretariat, September 2012

Albania 2012 ECSEE Progress Report – European Commission, October 2012

A Stocktaking Assessment of the Albanian Power Market: Reform Progress and Market
Monitoring – Final Report, AF-Mercados EMI, April 2012

Supervision Aide Memoires and Project/ Implementation Status Reports




                                         43
       KOSOVO




KOS.




                NOVEMBER 2012
