The World Bank                                           1818 H Street N.W.              (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT    Washington, D.C. 20433          Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                    U.S.A.                          Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                                                                      CONFORMED COPY

                                                                                             November 30, 2010
      Mr. Engjell Zeqo
      General Administrator
      Albanian Power Corporation
      Blloku “Vasil Shanto?
      Tirania, Albania

      Mr. Sokol Ramadani
      General Administrator
      Transmission System Operator
      Bulevardi “Gjergj Fishta? Nr. 10
      Tirana, Albania



            Re: Energy Community of South East Europe Program (Albania Component – KESH Project)
                                           (Credit No. 4087 – ALB)
                                          Restructuring of the Project

      Dear Mr. Zeqo and Mr. Ramadani:

              We refer to: (i) the Development Credit Agreement, dated July 25, 2005, between Albania (the
      Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association) (the Development Credit
      Agreement); and (ii) the Project Agreement, dated July 25, 2005, between the Association and Albanian
      Power Corporation (the Project Agreement), both for the above-referenced Project. We further refer to a
      written communication from the Minister of Finance, dated June 25, 2010, on behalf of the Borrower,
      requesting a restructuring of the Project following certain reforms of the power sector in Albania
      subsequent to the execution and effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement and Project
      Agreement. These reforms led to the unbundling of electricity generation, transmission and distribution
      operations with the attendant restructuring of the Albanian Power Corporation (KESH), the Transmission
      System Operator (OST) and the Distribution System Operator (OSSH).

               The focus of the Project is the bulk power transmission system in Albania. To reflect the legal
      and functional structure of the power sector in Albania, in particular that of OST, established through
      these recent reforms, and thus enable greater efficiency in the implementation of the Project, after due
      consideration we concur with the request of the Borrower and propose to restructure the Project as
      follows.

      1.        OST shall substitute to KESH as the Project implementing entity and, for this purpose, shall enter
      into an Amended and Restated Project Agreement with the Association, in the form of the Attachment to
      this letter.

      2.       Upon the effectiveness of the Amended and Restated Project Agreement between the Association
      and OST, the Project Agreement between the Association and KESH shall be of no further force and
      effect; provided that no provision in this letter shall be construed as a waiver of, nor shall impair any
                                                  2


right, obligation, power or remedy accruing either to the Association or to KESH under the Project
Agreement to the date of effectiveness of the Amended and Restated Project Agreement.

         Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by countersigning all three (3) copies of this
letter of amendment, each keeping one fully countersigned copy of the letter and returning one fully
countersigned copy to us.


                                              Sincerely,


                                       By /s/ Jane Armitage
                             Country Director and Regional Coordinator
                                       for Southeast Europe
                                 Europe and Central Asia Region


AGREED

ALBANIAN POWER CORPORATION

By: /s/ Engjell Zeqo
Authorized Representative

Title: Director General

Date: January 28, 2011



AGREED

TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OPERATOR

By: /s/ Sokol Ramadani
Authorized Representative

Title: Director General

Date: January 28, 2011
