FIL     E     COPY TDocument of
FILE COPY                 ~The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1794-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL EANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 19, 1976
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforaco
their official duties. Its contents muiy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00                             Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 1.00                             $0.0024
Rp 1 million              =$2,41
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)                         0.62 miles
2
1 square kilometer (km )                 0.39 square miles
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TCO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FCIR A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $130 million
to help finance the Fourth Highway Project. The loan would have a term
of 25 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia "Indonesia:   Development
Prospects and Needs" of April 15, 1975 (708-IND) described and analyzed
the structure of production and incomes, the recent changes in the avail-
ability of resources, and the medium and longer-term outlook for the In-
donesian economy. Country data are shown in Annex 1.
3.        In 1969, at the start of Indonesia's First Five-Year Plan,
the per capita income cf the Indonesian population was probably no higher
than half a century agc. A majority of the population lived below a mini-
mum welfare standard, especially on Java. Most were dependent exclusively
or primarily on agriculture, where farms were generally very small. Under-
employment was widespread. While the inflation of the mid-1960s had been
overcome, infrastructure was still in very poor condition.
4.        The Government's efforts during the First Five-Year Plan period
(April 1, 1969 - March 31, 1974) were successful in putting the economy
on the road towards devrelopment. Most physical objectives were achieved
or nearly so, and there was very substantial rehabilitation of run-down
infrastructure and Government enterprises in agriculture and manufacturing.
Foodgrain production increased by 4 million tons during the Plan period
at an average rate of .5 percent per annum. Investments increased at a very
fast rate, rising from 9 to 19 percent of GNP. While 57 percent of Govern-
ment development expeniditures were financed from abroad, the reliance on
foreign financing was mnuch less than the level of nearly 80 percent foreseen
in the Plan. Real GDP increased at an annual rate of over 7 percent. GNP per
capita in current prices reached about $130 1/ in 1973. The Government
programs for the labor intensive rehabilitation of infrastructure and other
measures created substantial incomes and employment. However, given the
annual increase in the labor force of about one million, one cannot be con-
fident that the employment situation improved during the First Plan period,
and from available information it is difficult to judge the extent to which
the poorest section of the population shared in the gains of development.
1/   World Bank Atlas basis.



5.        The Second Five-Year Plan (April 1, 1974 to March 31, 1979) builds
on the achievements of the First Plan. While the First Plan dealt mainly with
the urgent needs for stabilization and rehabilitation under conditions of
great scarcity of resources, progress has been such that the Second Plan can
give much more weight to such problems as employment, increasing the produc-
tivity and incomes of the poorest sections of the population and the poorest
regions, population control, education and health. The Plan identifies a
number of specific low-income target groups and, in general, adopts an employ-
ment oriented development strategy. It aims at a continued growth in invest-
ment, needed both because capital intensity will tend to increase as the
rehabilitation phase draws to an end, and because more socially-oriented
investments will be made. Overall, the Plan expects GDP to grow at 7.5
percent per annum.
6.        Over the decade 1961-71, Indonesia's population grew by 2.1 per-
cent a year. However, as a result of changes in the age, distribution and
declining mortality, the current growth rate is estimated at 2.5 percent.
Even under the most optimistic assumptions with regard to a decline in fer-
tility, the growth rate would come down only gradually, and the population
would nearly double by the end of the century. While Indonesia still has
substantial unutilized land reserves in the Outer Islands, these are limited
in relation to the expected population increase. Since 1969, the Government
has been operating and gradually extending a successful family planning
program. The number of acceptors has been increasing rapidly. The Second
Plan foresees a progressively more vigorous and comprehensive attack on the
population problem.
7.        During the years 1976-79, average annual additions to the labor
force are estimated at 1.2 million, increasing to more than 1.4 million in
the years 1980-85. In addition, substantial underemployment exists, and
there is the risk that even relatively simple technological improvements
may adversely affect existing employment. The Second Plan's projections
show that employment growth would approximately keep pace with the growth in
the labor force, but even this may be too optimistic. Thus, the magnitude and
the employment content of the investment programn needs to be further enlarged
and strengthened if an appreciable increase in employment and the real earn-
ings of labor - and thus a wider spread of the benefits of development - is
to be attained.
8.        Towards the end of 1973, when the Second Plan was being finalized,
prospects for resource availability improved dramatically. In line with
other OPEC countries, the Government raised the export price of oil in
successive stages from $3.70 per barrel in April 1973 to $12.60 per barrel
in July 1974. Early in 1974 (and again in 1975) the Government also suc-
cessfully renegotiated the contracts with foreign oil companies, enabling
it to retain a greater share of the oil income. As a result, the net
contribution of the oil sector to the balance of payments and Government
revenues was expected to increase very considerably; a large increase in
foreign exchange reserves and a budget surplus were anticipated for
1974/75.1/
1/   Indonesian fiscal year April 1, 1974 - March 31, 1975.



9.        By October 1974, foreign exchange reserves had risen by $650 mil-
lion from nearly $1.0 b.illion at the beginning of 1974/75 and Government
revenues were exceeding the levels originally estimated. The Government
authorized much higher :Levels of expenditures, mainly for development, which
reflected the improved revenue prospects. However, the recessionary condi-
tions in the industrial countries began to affect the volume of oil exports
and production by the m:Lddle of the year. Indonesia's high quality oil tended
to become overpriced 1/ as world oil demand slackened and output declined from
an average of 1.45 million barrels per day (bpd) in the first half of 1974 to
1.31 million bpd in the second half. Proceeds from non-oil exports also
started to decline as pirices, and in some cases export quantities, fell.
10.       In October 1974 also, the first signs appeared of what turned out
to be a substantial financial overextension by PERTAMINA, the national oil
company. PERTAMINA had undertaken a large and diversified investment program
financed to a substantial extent by short-term borrowing. In the third
quarter of 1974/75, it started withholding part of the corporate oil tax it
had collected on behalf of Government from the foreign oil companies; by the
end of the fiscal year a total of Rp 346 billion ($830 million) had been so
withheld and used to meet PERTAMINA's financial obligations. Early in 1975,
PERTAMINA failed to meet payments due to some foreign banks and the Government
stepped in and took decisive action. It banned all independent foreign bor-
rowing by PERTAMINA and other Government enterprises and gave Bank Indonesia
the sole authority to contract foreign obligations, instructed Bank Indonesia
to provide the funds needed to meet PERTAMINA's external obligations, under-
took a comprehensive review of the oil company's investment projects and began
the process of reducing and re-plannning the company's investment program and
of cancelling and renegotiating many of the related procurement contracts.
11.       The combination, in the last half of 1974/75, of slackening
receipts from exports of oil and other products and of the need to meet
PERTAMINA's short-term obligations resulted in a loss of the foreign ex-
change reserves gained in the first half of the fiscal year. By March 31,
1975, these reserves were at the same level as at the beginning of April
1974.
12.       The balance of payments situation did not improve in    the first
half of 1975/76. With continuing recessionary conditions in Indonesia's
principal markets, exports failed to increase while imports rose again
(about 30 percent on an annual basis). Debt service payments on behalf
of PERTAMINA were very large (about $1.0 billion). As a result, Indonesia's
foreign exchange reserves declined by a further $480 million, despite sub-
stantial capital inflows, including two syndicated public cash borrowings
(totalling $575 million) from the international capital market.
1/   The premium on Inclonesian oil has recently been reduced by the Government's
decision to raise the price of its main crude by 1.5 percent (to $12.80)
as compared with t:he 10 percent increase in the price of Saudi Arabian
light crude agreecl at the meeting of OPEC in September 1975.



- 4 -
13.       For 1976, balance of payments prospects appear distinctly more
favorable. Signs of recovery from the recession have appeared in some indus-
trialized countries, commodity prices seem to have bottomed out and oil ex-
ports from Indonesia have increased in recent months. Rice import needs are
smaller and fertilizer imports have been stopped due to the sizeable stocks
now on hand. Prices of some other imported commodities have fallen. Service
on PERTAMINA's debt is much smaller and the Government has recently raised
another cash loan amounting to $425 million. Some build-up of foreign
exchange reserves is expected in the second half of the fiscal year.
14.       Budgetary revenues in 1974/75 were much lower than had been anti-
cipated at the middle of the year, partly due to the withholding of oil
revenues by PERTAMINA and partly to the shortfall in oil exports in the
second half of the year.   The budget was, however, still in balance by year's
end as the Government reduced or deferred expenditures. The budget for
1975/76 is balanced. Revenues, as well as current and domestically financed
development expenditures, are now expected to be about 10 percent lower than
originally budgeted, but still about 30 percent higher than in the previous
year.
15.       In spite of the shortfall in budgetary revenues, and the adminis-
trative difficulties involved in implementation of some projects, total
development expenditures in 1974/75 were Rp 770 billion ($1.9 billion) double
that in the previous year. In 1975/76 they are expected to reach Rp 1.4
trillion ($3.3 billion), including foreign financing of projects, totalling
about $1.0 billion and fertilizer subsidies amounting to $350 million. This
is about three times the actual expenditure in 1973/74; even when adjusted for
price changes this represents a near doubling.
16.       Preliminary figures indicate that the high growth rate achieved
during 1969-73 was maintained in 1974. At constant 1973 prices, gross
domestic product rose by 7.5 percent in 1974. Partial indicators seem to
point to slower growth of output in 1975. The inflation rate was very high
in the first part of 1974 as, among other factors, world inflation was
transmitted through both export and import channels, but abated somewhat
later in the year, partly as a result of the Government's stabilization
measures in April 1974. Nevertheless, for the year as a whole it reached
40 percent. While still considerable, the average inflation rate for 1975
is expected to be only half of 1974's, or about 20 percent.
17.       In the aftermath of the PERTAMINA development, the Government is
faced with problems which, although serious, are surmountable. The review
of PERTAMINA's projects has resulted in cancellation or renegotiation of
many contracts and reductions in project scope and size. 1/ The Government
1/   The planned capacity of the Krakatau Steel plant, for example, was
reduced from 2,000,000 to 500,000 tons per year and the existing
supply contracts were reduced by $750 million.



-5-
has more recently undertak!n a broader review of projects initiated by
various Government departments and other State entities in an effort to
bring future expenditures iln line with available resources and the prior-
ities set out in the SeconcL Plan. It is screening very carefully any major
new programs or projects, since considerable resources will be needed in the
next year or two for the completion of projects already initiated.
18.       A longer-term efiEect of the recent financial difficulties will
be on the country's external public debt service obligations during the
rest of the decade. Debt service payments over the next several years will
be much larger than previously envisaged, as a result of the large borrowings
by the Government in the current fiscal year. Debt service in 1975/76 is
now estimated at $500 million in FY75/76, which would be more than 10 percent
of officially projected net oil and other exports. Debt service payments
on all loans contracted to December 31, 1975 may reach about one billion
dollars by 1978 before declining as shorter-term maturities are paid off.
This is about $500 million more per year than the payments projected on
the basis of debt outstanding at the end of 1974. With debt service obliga-
tions on these borrowings substantially higher than expected earlier (about
12 percent of exports in 1978), the margin for further borrowing on other than
semi-concessional terms has now become much more limited. The amounts, terms
and purposes of future borrowing therefore need to be kept under continuous
careful review.
19.       While the recent balance of payments and budgetary difficulties
have upset some of the Government's plans, the long-term prospects for
Indonesia's development remain good. The country has a substantial poten-
tial for further productive investment, employment and income growth. In
agriculture, a vigorous pursuit of on-going programs in irrigation, devel-
opment of new plant varieties and technical services, provision of credit
and current inputs, etc., promises to yield.high returns. In addition,
there are opportunities for the development of new areas, of food and tree
crops - partly in conjunction with a rapidly growing transmigration program.
The industrial potential is good, both for modern capital-intensive natural
resource-based activities and for more labor-intensive, partly export-oriented
industries.
PART II - BAN'K GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
20.       As indicated in Part I, Indonesia's plans emphasize a need to
undertake a large investment and development program designed to provide
productive work opportunities (with resultant increased incomes) for its
presently underemployed and growing labor force. Substantial external
financing, on concessional. and semi-concessional terms, as well as a consid-
erable volume of technica]. assistance, is also required. The Bank is planning
to increase its lending to Indonesia and, in particular, to support projects
designed to: improve agr:Lcultural credit, research and extension; rehabili-
tate and expand irrigation systems; increase the production and distribution



-6-
of fertilizer; assist transmigration and nucleus estates; increase non-agri-
cultural employment in small towns and rural areas by the establishment of
small-scale industries; and rehabilitate and expand urgently needed trans-
portation and other infrastructure.
21.       As of March 15, 1976, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits total-
ling $561.8 million and 10 Bank loans amounting to $461.0 million. At that
date, IFC investments totalled $58.4 million. At the end of 1974 the Bank
Group accounted for about 4 percent of Indonesia's total outstanding public
debt; by 1978 it is expected to acccount for 12 percent of total outstanding
public debt and 5 percent of public debt service obligations. A suimary
statement of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of January 31,
1975 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects, are contained in Annex II.
This is the fourth loan proposed for Indonesia this year and, if approved,
along with the proposed fourth education project, would bring total IBRD
commitments since June 30, 1975 to $270 million.
22.       To date, agriculture accounts for just over one-third of all Bank
lending to Indonesia, including four IDA credits for estate rehabilitation,
six for the rehabilitation and expansion of the irrigation systems, two for
fisheries, and one each for seeds, beef cattle, sugar and smallholder tea and
rubber. In the industrial sector, the Bank Group has assisted in three
projects to expand PUSRI's fertilizer production capacity, three for develop-
ment finance companies (Government-owned and private) which play a major role
in fostering the growth of industrial enterprises, and one for the Pulo Gadung
industrial estate. Loans and credits have also been extended to the transpor-
tation, education, telecommunications, tourism, power, population, urbaniza-
tion and water supply sectors, and four credits have been made for technical
assistance to aid the Government in preparing and formulating its development
programs and projects.
23.       The Bank Group's previous assistance in financing the transport
sector has involved: three highway projects, Credit 154-IND for US$28 mil-
lion in 1969, Credit 260-IND for US$35 million in 1971, and Credit 388-IND
for US$14 million in 1973, an inter-island shipping project, Credit 318-IND
for US$8.5 million in 1972; a railway project, Loan 1005-IND for US$48 mil-
lion in 1974; and a fertilizer distribution project, Loan 1139-IND, for
US$68 million in 1975; and technical expertise financed under the technical
assistance credits to Indonesia. A second inter-island shipping project will
be submitted to the Executive Directors later this fiscal year and a project
to expand the country's principal general cargo port (Jakarta) has been
appraised.
24.       Bank lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in 1968 for
irrigation rehabilitation; almost half of all loans and credits have been
made since mid-1972, with lending on Bank terms commencing in June 1974.
Disbursements on loans and credits are prevailing at satisfactory levels.
The Indonesian authorities have become increasingly aware of the delays



in project execution causetd by cumbersome procedures and the need to establish
an effective control system in BAPPENAS (The National Development Planning
Agency).  At the Government's request, the Bank has arranged for assistance
under the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help set up a
monitoring and control system which it is hoped will lead to better project
administration.
25.       Future Bank lendling gives high priority to the agricultural sector
through support of projects to increase rice and other crop production in
the Inner and Outer Islands, and the expansion of resettlement efforts on
the latter. In addition, the program provides for further socially-oriented
projects in the fields of urban development and population. Projects for
agricultural extension, power, education, shipping, ports, sugar, fertilizer
production, irrigatior. and nutrition are expected to be ready for presentation
in the next few months.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
26.       For Indonesia the balanced growth of its island economy rests
heavily on improvements in the transport sector. Much of the nation's road
and rail systems are concentrated, like its population, orn Java which has 33
percent and 70 percent of the respective total networks. Roads provide the
basic links on the individual islands outside Java though the density of
these networks is much lower than in Java. There are a few railway lines in
Sumatera. Where rivers are navigable (South Sumatera, Kalimantan, West Irian),
they carry significant vo]umes of traffic. There are also about 450 km
of petroleum pipelines in operation or under construction in south-central
Java. Freight movements among the islands are made by marine transport
which also carries some traffic between points on the same islands. Air
transport is developing rapidly but is almost exclusively for passenger use,
both inter- and intra-island. The largest single item in freight transport,
measured in ton-km, is the movement of petroleum and its products by
domestic shipping; without: this traffic, road and sea traffic are roughly
equal and each about three times rail traffic. Road transport accounts for
more than half of total p8ssenger-km, with rail contributing the second
largest share.
27.       The contribution of transport to GDP virtually stagnated for most
of the 1960's, but grew at nearly 11 percent a year (in constant prices)
over the First Plan periocl. The Government's policy in the First Plan empha-
sized rehabilitation of transport facilities. Highway traffic has since
increased substantially, cne indicator being that 70 percent more registered
vehicles are on the roads today than in 1970. In addition, some fleet expan-
sion took place, particularly in road transport and aviation. The primary
aim of the Government's Second Plan in the transport sector is to create sub-
stantial capacity increases both by additional investment and by improved
productivity, through completion of unfinished rehabilitation work and fur-
ther strengthening of sect;oral institutions and organizations.



- 8 -
28.       As a result of its enlarged oil income, the Government has expanded
expenditure under the 1974/75 and 1975/76 development budgets over the levels
projected in the Second Plan. The increase for transport is almost the same
as for the budget as a whole and, other than differential acceleration of
expenditures in some transport activities, the Government has not indicated a
shift in its sectoral strategy. Over the Second Plan period, investments for
transport in the public sector (assuming continuation of development expend-
itures at increased levels) and by the private sector are estimated at about
Rp 1,800 billion ($4.3 billion), in 1973 prices, roughly 17 percent of total
investments; about 56 percent of this will flow through the public sector
under various central and local government development budgets with the
remainder being financed privately, particularly for the purchase of road
and other transport vehicles.
Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination
29.       Responsibility for planning and policy formulation in the transport
sector is divided at the national level between the Ministry of Public Works
and Power (MPW) for Highways and the Ministry of Transport, Communications
and Tourism (MOC) for other modes. Investment proposals are formulated
at the modal level in these ministries and then submitted to BAPPENAS for
review and approval.
30.       Planning of highways in the MPW's Directorate-General of Highways
(DGH) has been significantly strengthened in recent years with the assistance
of the UNDP-financed Highways Planning Advisory Team (HPAT). Railway planning
will be improved under the recent Bank loan for the railways, and national
ports planning, which is urgently needed, will be given special attention in a
proposed project for the port of Jakarta. Effective transport planning is now
hindered by limited and irregular flow of data; the Government is pursuing
several means to improve the availability of information, among them the
provision of an expert financed under the Technical Assistance Credit 275-IND
to work with MOC on data problems.
31.       The Government largely controls the operation of the transport
system, not only through the provision of infrastructure and the owner-
ship of important transport enterprises in all modes, but also through rate
setting and other regulatory activities. While it has not formulated an
explicit transport policy, the Government has identified areas requiring
special attention, particularly financial objectives and the control of
public sector transport firms and pricing policy. At present, accounting
systems vary widely among sectoral enterprises and means are not available to
compare financial performance or to set standards. Frequently, Government
decisions on rates had to be made without analysis of costs, demand factors
or the effect on competing modes. Experts, financed under the Technical
Assistance Credit, are now advising MOC in these areas in order to make the
Government's activities more consistent and effective, improve the return on
its investments in the sector and ensure that all relevant economic factors
are considered in transport pricing.



- 9 -
Highways and Highway Developmefit Program
32.       The extra-urban public highway network totalling 86,264 km, is
classified as national (1.0,628 km), provincial (24,466 km), and district
(51,170 km), indicating t:heir relative importance and the basis for defining
administrative, financial, and executive procedures associated with construc-
tion and maintenance. OrtL the basis of a broad assessment of the structural
adequacy of the highway siystem to carry today's larger vehicles and traffic
volumes, the Government has determined that about 60 percent of the network
is not in a condition to service traffic economically. Therefore, the Gov-
ernment has decided to concentrate highway investments during the current plan
period, not on isolated major investments, but on a Betterment Program that is
identifying structurally weak links in the national highway network and up-
grading them to carry traffic at the levels expected within the next ten
years.
33.       The Betterment Program is concentrated on roughly 140 links aggre-
gating 13,000 km, or about 40 percent of the national-provincial highway
network, which have emerged from a nationwide survey as the most important
traffic corridors in the next 10 years. This analysis took into account
traffic, road condition and regional development potential. A more de-
tailed review of the roacl conditions in each corridor is expected to re-
duce the length of roads which requires immediate betterment works to about
10,000 km. Actual road betterment completed by the end of the 1974/75 -
1979/80 Plan period may cnly aggregate 5,000 km, although work on another
2,900 km is expected to be under way and due for completion in the first
two years of the following Third Plan period. A further 2,100 km will not
be started until after the end of the current Plan. On the basis of an
average-cost per km of Rp 40 million (US$96,000), the estimated cost of
the Betterment Program in the Second Plan period is Rp 260 billion ($627
million). Of the total cost, it is expected that Rp 180 billion ($434
million) will be financed from the development budget and Rp 80 billion
($192 million) from foreign aid. The proposed Bank loan would support
the Betterment Program and be a major contribution to the development
of the highway sector. Assurances were received that DGH would review
semi-annually its program for the Second Plan and submit reports on this
review to the Bank (Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement).
34.       In addition to the Betterment Program, the Government's Sec-
ond Plan Highway Development Program includes investments totaling about
Rp 380 billion ($916 million), comprising Rp 180 billion ($434 million)
for 1,100 km of new construction, mainly for new multi-lane highways
near major cities; Rp 80 billion ($193 million) for maintenance and
rehabilitation and Rp 120 billion ($290 million) for bridge construc-
tion.



- 10 -
Administration and Organization
35.       The most significant obstacles to developing the highway system have
been weaknesses in administration and organization. The proposed project would
provide technical assistance to DGH for the planning and development of its
highway program and for initiating a gradual shift of responsibility for plan-
ning, construction and maintenance from DGH headquarters to the provinces.
36.       The DGH is beginning this decentralization by establishing four re-
gional offices. Of these, the offices in Surabaya, Bandung, and Medan would
be staffed initially to undertake the engineering work for the Betterment
Program. Each would have about twenty technical staff supplemented by
engineering consultants in a ratio of about one expatriate to every four or
five Indonesians. If Indonesia had more experienced civil engineers, it would
not need to rely so heavily on expatriate engineers. Acutely aware of the
present shortage, the Government recently undertook an expansion of the tech-
nical institute in Surabaya with assistance from the Asian Development Bank.
But, until engineering skills are more widely available, the best method of
technical training appears to be pairing fledgling Indonesian consulting firms
and DGH staff with expatriate engineering firms so that on-the-job training
can take place. In this way, the Government expects to rapidly increase the
technical competence of local personnel so there would be less need for ex-
patriate consultants in the future. In the meantime, however, it is necessary
to allocate a large portion of total project cost for consultant services to
provide the necessary training and to build up rapidly the capacity of DGH
and the regional offices to carry out and expand the Betterment Program. Of
the total amount of $27 million allocated for consultants in the proposed loan,
about $22 million is for supervision of project construction and design work
and detailed engineering for more than 4,000 km of additional roads; about $5
million is for services related to management and transport economics work.
37.       Responsibilities for administration of the public highway network
are as follows: the Ministry of Public Works and Power (MPW) for national
highways; the provincial public works departments (DPUPs) for provincial
roads; and district administrations for district roads. In practice, the
administrative system is not as clearly defined and there are many interlock-
ing relationships among the levels of administration. DGH is a relatively
small organization of less than 2,000 permanent employees. However, it is
the largest pool of skilled highway technicians in the country and has been
responsible for the design and construction of virtually all major road
projects in the country. The number of employees of the provincial and dis-
trict administrations working on highways is not known exactly, but certainly
runs into several tens of thousands. The technical capacity of DPUP's varies
widely; the major activity of the provinces on highways-is maintenance and
rehabilitation. Funds are provided by DGH and by other agencies of the
Central Government to the DPUPs and by the latter to the districts. Technical
assistance is provided to the DPUPs by various DGH directorates.
Financing
38.       Complete figures are not available on the total expenditure on
Indonesia's public highway network outside of the DGH budget, which is only



- 11 -
a portion of the CentraL Government's expenditures on highways. The Gov-
ernment also transfers Large sums to the lower tiers of administration either
specifically earmarked For hlighwa'ys (e.g., paym-ents to provinces for highway
maintenance) or for programs which include a large number of highway works
(e.g., district public works schemes such as under the so-called INPRES
program). In addition, the provinces and districts finance from their own
resources not only part of the routine maintenance costs, but also some new
road construction or improvements. DGH has two budgets: "a routine budget",
which covers the salaries of its permanent employees and also includes a
small sum for road maint:enance, and "a development budget", which not
only funds major construction projects but also large expenditures for re-
habilitation and maintenance. In the First Plan period, the DGH development
budget increased from about Rp 10 billion to Rp 26 billion ($260-650 million),
or 50 percent in real terms when allowance is made for the intervening infla-
tion. Actual expenditures ran at roughly 80 percent of the budgeted amounts
in that period.
Planning and Engineering
39.       Indonesia suffers a shortage of graduate civil engineers (only
about 120 are produced per year for both public and private sectors), which
is felt at all levels of its highway administration. DGH has sought to over-
come this problem in its planning and design work by the extensive employment
of para-professional personnel (e.g., advanced university students) to supple-
ment its own permanent staff, by the use of electronic computers, by retaining
foreign design consultants and more recently by initial measures to build up
the capacity of the domestic consulting industry. As a result, DGH has been
able gradually to expand and improve its highway planning effort and to
increase its design capacity.
40.       The main organization for highway planning is DGH's Directorate
of Planning which collects data on traffic and existing road facilities,
prepares general highway plans and selects and evaluates individual con-
struction projects. This Directorate conducted the nationwide survey men-
tioned in para 33, which was the basis for formulating the Betterment Pro-
gram. It is presently compiling a detailed road and bridge inventory of
national and provincial roads, including important feeder roads, a priority
item in future plans. Iit will shortly commence preparation of a rolling
five-year plan for the hLghway network in selected pilot areas of the country,
which will subsequently be extended to cover all areas of the country. While
DGH's planning effort is ambitious, it is well conceived and should produce
satisfactory results with the continued help of the HPAT which has been
working with the Directorate over the past three years. The HPAT services
involve about 150 man-months of expatriate services (engineers, economists,
traffic specialists) over a three-year period.
41.       DGH's design work is also the responsibility of the Directorate
of Planning. Design offices are located in Bandung which provides access
to the resources of the highly regarded Institute of Technology there. The
design office has demonstrated its capacity to produce designs for a broad
range of highway and bridcge construction and to supervise a large volume of
design work by consultants. The Directorate also has responsibility for



- 12 -
developing the engineering capabilities of the DPUP's and the highway con-
sulting industry. The Directorate will need to make large-scale use of
expatriate consultants over the next several years, but will be able to
rely increasingly on domestic consultants after they have gained experi-
ence by working with expatriate firms in the preparation and execution of
the Betterment Program.
Construction
42.       The Directorate of Construction is responsible for highway
construction which is executed under a variety of arrangements. Most
typical for minor construction is the use of small contractors, who
supply labor and local materials such as stone, but also use equipment
and manufactured materials supplied by the Government. Indonesia has
only a few contracting firms which can execute major road works and,
therefore, mainly uses foreign contractors on such jobs; this was the
case in the Bank-financed Second and Third Highway Projects. Under the
proposed project, DGH will carry out a study of the measures needed to
expand the local contracting industry. Some provinces also have force
account construction units for road building.
Maintenance
43.       Maintenance of the national and provincial roads is carried
out by the DPUP's, partly with provincial funds and partly with funds
supplied by the central Government through the budgets of DGH and the
Directorate General of Administration and Regional Autonomy in the Min-
istry of Interior. Complete data are not available on the total expendi-
tures for maintenance outside of the DGH budget. As the lack of data is
pronounced for the individual provinces, a major activity under the pro-
posed project will be a survey of DPUPs to obtain information on the extent
and quality of the maintenance effort and to develop appropraite action
programs for each province to strengthen the organization, administration
and execution of maintenance consistent with highway development under the
Second and future Five-Year Plans. At the present time roads in Indonesia
are carrying a far larger volume of heavy traffic than that for which they
were designed, thus requiring frequent expensive and uneconomic heavy main-
tenance. Also a large backlog of deferred maintenance still remains. None-
theless, maintenance operations are extensive and substantial improvements
were achieved in the condition of the primary network during the First Plan
period. The results of the maintenance rehabilitation effort which was suc-
cessfully initiated under the First Highway Project and followed up by DGH
are apparent from the following data: in 1973, 95 percent of the primary
road network was open to traffic as against 70 percent five years earlier,
and 60 percent of the open roads were judged in good or fair condition in
1973 contrasted with about 15 percent in 1968. DGH plans to continue
improvements in maintenance (See para 50).
Prior Bank Group Assistance for Highways
44.       In recent years the Bank assisted the Government in its major
efforts to improve the highway system. The Bank was executing agency for



- 13 -
a UNDP study undertaken between 1968 and 1973 which provided the basis for
the three previous highway projects financed by IDA. The first Credit
approved in FY69 was mainly for highway rehabilitation works, some main-
tenance equipment and organizational improvements; the second, in FY71,
for construction of 200 km of main highway in Sumatera; the third, in
FY73, was for construction of two roads totalling 124 km in Sulawesi,
a feasibility study of a 300 km road from Bandung to Cilicap, technical
assistance for the preparation of the current Betterment Program, and a
staff training program Eor maintenance personnel. Implementation of the
above projects has been satisfactory. In addition, IDA Technical Assis-
tance Credits have finaiiced transport advisors to MOC.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The proposed project is the initial phase of DGH's Second Plan
Betterment Program.   In addition to some 1,100 km of road construction, the
project aims to strengthen the administration of the highway sector generally
to enable DGH to decentralize its execution of the Betterment Program and
future works. This effort will demand a considerable amount of expatriate
consultant services duri.ng the early years in view of the acute shortage of
locally available skilled manpower and the urgency of developing the highway
sector. DGH recently established four regional betterment offices in Medan,
Palembang, Bandung and 'Surabaya, which will gradually assume many of the
administrative functions now handled in Jakarta. Under the proposed project
consultant services would be provided to each of these offices from combina-
tions of foreign and Indonesian firms; the four joint-venture firms selected
would be responsible for supervision of the construction of roads financed
under the proposed Bank loan and the preliminary engineering and detailed
design services for future betterment road sections in their regions. It is
expected that this procedure will increase the domestic capacity for design-
ing highways, so that in later years of the Betterment Program an increasing
share of the work could be carried out by Indonesian personnel. A separate
consulting firm will be retained to assist DGH headquarters in establishing
design criteria, in screening potential road improvements and in carrying out
cost-benefit analyses in order to identify the work required on each section.
Management consultants will be engaged to undertake and assist DGH in prepar-
ing various studies and in making other improvements in the management of
Indonesia's highway system.   A separate consultant firm will be retained to
assist DGH in monitoring the activities of other consultants required for the
project.
46.       The proposed project comprises:
(a)  Construction o. about 1,100 km of road improvements;
(b) Screening-feas:Lbility studies of about 7,000 km of
potential road improvements, followed by detailed
engineering of some 4,100 km of the improvements
so identified; detailed engineering of a 70 km



- 14 -
multi-lane road east of Jakarta to Cikampek; studies
and similar measures to strengthen Indonesia's highway
authorities; including studies related to DGH management
problems and studies of vehicle weights and dimensions,
road user charges and highway legislation; and
(c) Procurement of equipment for training programs and traffic
data collection.
47.       Details of these components are as follows:
(a) Construction of about 1,100 km of road improvements
The road segments selected for this project are priority investments
broadly identified from the DGH nationwide survey and subsequently examined in
detail in feasibility studies of 2,100 km undertaken by consultants financed
from IDA Credit 388-IND. Priority in selection was given to roads which had a
record of frequent repair, particularly those with high traffic volumes and
relatively low construction costs. Detailed designs for a first package of
road improvements of about 550 km, including seven road segments in Java,
Bali, Sulawesi and Sumatera, have been completed. Two of the roads in the
first package adjoin construction projects underway financed by IDA. The
improvements, which are concentrated on main highways, consist primarily of
pavement reconstruction or strengthening work with some widening of carriage-
ways, widening and strengthening of shoulders, and minor adjustments to ver-
tical and horizontal alignments. In addition, drainage will be improved,
weak bridges replaced or strengthened and narrow bridges widened in some
instances. From the remaining 1,550 km of roads under study, a second pack-
age of high priority roads will be selected for inclusion in the project not
later than December 1976. General design standards for the 1,100 km of road
improvements are provided in Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement. Supervision
of construction is discussed in para 48.
(b) Screening-feasibility studies of 7,000 km of roads for
future road improvements
Of the 13,000 km of road links considered as potentially suitable
for betterment, about 2,100 km are being studied by consultants financed
from IDA Credit 388-IND and another 3,900 km will be reviewed by DGH staff.
The remaining 7,000 km will be subject to screening-feasibility studies by
DGH personnel with the assistance of an expatriate consulting firm working
out of DGH headquarters. Roughly 4,500 km of these 7,000 km of roads are
located in Sumatera, Java and Bali and 2,500 km elsewhere in Indonesia.
Screening-feasibility studies for the road improvements in Sumatera, Java
and Bali will be based on road evaluation studies in the field and prelimi-
nary engineering to be carried out by the four new DGH regional betterment
offices assisted by the same consultants as for construction supervision.
For the roads elsewhere in Indonesia, preliminary engineering will be car-
ried out by DGH and financed entirely outside the proposed loan.



- 15 -
(c) Detailed engineering of 4,100 km of roads in
Sumatera,- Java and.Bali
From the feasibility studies of 4,500 km of high-priority road
segments in Java, Sumatera and Bali, screening-feasibility consultants are
expected to find about 4,100 km suitable for detailed engineering. The
engineering will be undertaken by the DGH regional betterment offices
assisted by their respect:ive consultants using design criteria formulated
by DGH assisted by the screening-feasibility consultants.
(d) Detailed engine!ering of Jakarta - Cikampek road
Preliminary studies of the road facilities on the heavily traf-
ficked corridor immediately east of Jakarta toward Surabaya were recently
completed by Arge Intertraffic-Lenz-Consult (Germany), which suggest the need
for multi-lane improvement. The 70 km segment east from Jakarta to Cikampek,
a high priority link, had originally been proposed by the Indonesian Govern-
ment for financing by the Bank. Since then, the Government of Saudi Arabia
has expressed willingness to finance construction of this road. The Govern-
ment has tentatively earmarked $50 million of Saudi aid for this purpose.
Arrangements for detailed engineering will be made after review of the tech-
nical and economic feasibility of the various improvement schemes examined in
the preliminary studies.
(e) Studies and other measures to strengthen Indonesia's
highway authorities
Highway planning will be improved with the continued assistance
of the HPAT financed jointly by UNDP and the Government. In addition to
assisting the Directorate for Planning, the HPAT will help DGH prepare a
program for the managemen;t and maintenance of its heavy equipment which is
being augmented by large-scale purchases financed with bilateral assistance.
Other aspects of Indonesian highway operations will be strengthened with the
assistance of a managemeni: consulting firm; areas which will receive parti-
cular attention include budget formulation and control, training programs
and construction management, operation of the individual DPUPs and develop-
ment of the local construc:tion and consulting industries. Consultants will
also assist DGH in monitoring important DGH activities, particularly the
work of all consultants related to the proposed project.
(f) Studies of vehicle weights and dimensions and road user charges
and the administration and enforcement of highway legislation
Due to the expansion of the motor vehicle fleet, the likely rapid
improvements of roads and bridges and changes in oil prices, a combined
study of vehicle weights and dimensions and road user charges will be made.
The study would make recommendations on the financial contributions that
should be made by various classes of vehicles to the construction and mainte-
nance of Indonesia's highways. Assurances were received that, following the



- 16 -
completion of this study, Government regulations limiting the dimensions and
axle-loads of vehicles would be modified as necessary to make them consistent
with the structural and geometric design standards of the national and pro-
vincial highway network, and that they would be effectively enforced (Section
4.05 of the Loan Agreement). Further assurances were received that after
taking into account the findings of the study, the levels and structure of
road user charges would be modified as required to charge road users equitably
for the costs of construction, betterment and maintenance (Section 4.06 of the
Loan Agreement). The management consultants charged with undertaking the
above studies would also review the administration and enforcement of existing
highway legislation.
(g) Procurement of equipment for training and
traffic counting programs
Several DGH programs are being expanded to strengthen the opera-
tions of the highway authorities, including its training and traffic data
collection programs. The expanded training programs will require slide
projectors and vehicles for use by Provincial Training Officers when visit-
ing training sites. The improvement of traffic data collection will be
assisted by training provided by the HPAT. In addition to manual traffic
counts, traffic counting machines are needed for densely travelled road sec-
tions, particularly on the island of Java. The establishment of 10 count-
ing patrols will require, in addition to traffic counters and computation
equipment, a number of vehicles to service the counters in the field. Assur-
ances were received from the Government that it would continue to collect and
record data appropriate for the formulation of a comprehensive transport pol-
icy and for proper planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions of
the highway system (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Implementation and Maintenance
48.       DGH assisted by qualified consultants will be responsible for
project execution. Contracts for most consultancies concentrated pri-
marily in an initial two-year period will be concluded by DGH over the
next few months. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Loan that the consultants required for initial project implementation (Section
5.01 of the Loan Agreement) have been employed and taken up their respective
posts. Construction supervision will be done by the regional betterment
offices assisted by consultants, with the exception of the Sulawesi road
where DGH proposes to have the supervision done by Pacific Consultants Inter-
national (Japan) who are already supervising construction of the adjoining
works being financed under IDA Credit 388-IND. Major road works will be car-
ried out with a blend of labor and capital intensive methods appropriate to
local conditions. Assurances were received that all land and rights to the
land required for construction of the project roads would be acquired as and
when needed (Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement). The maintenance of the
improved roads will require new and better maintenance operations to protect
the investments. Assurances were received that all project roads would be
maintained according to programs specifically designed for each road, that



- 17 -
steps would be taken to provide adequate maintenance for all national and
provincial roads and that expenditures for maintenance would be appropriately
monitored and&recorded (Sections 4.03 and 4.04-of the Loan Agreement).
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
49.       The estimated total cost of the project, including contingency
allowances,is $234 million, with a foreign exchange component of $150 mil-
lion, or 64 percent. A detailed cost table appears in Annex III. The cost
estimates include a 10 percent allowance for physical contingencies and an
average of 29 percent-for price contingencies on construction and consulting
service costs. Total contingencies amount to about $64 million, or 27 percent
of project costs.
50.       The proposed Loan of $130 million would finance 87 percent of the
foreign exchange costs (56 percent of total costs). Government will contri-
bute about $103 million to the project, and UNDP about $700,000. Proceeds
of the Bank loan will be used only for construction and technical assistance.
Government will also contribute to financing construction and technical assis-
tance, but, in addition, totally from its own resources, it will finance the
costs of land acquisition, equipment for traffic data collection and staff
training, and preliminary engineering of betterments for 2,500 kin of roads in
the Outer Islands. The UNDP will finance the costs of providing advisory ser-
vices. A summary of the financing plan is below:
Project Component                   Estimated Cost           Source of Funds
--------------($ million)----------------
Bank Gov't UNDP
Construction (1,100 km)                 183                 110    73
Technical Assistance                     34                  20    14
Preliminary Engineering                   1.4                       1.4
(2,500 km Outer Islands)
Highway Planning Advisory Team              .9                         .2  .7
Equipment                                  .7                          .7
Land Acquisition                          14                        14.0 _
Total                              234                 130    103.3   .7
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       Due to the urgency with which the Government views the Betterment
Program and the improvement of the highway program generally, substantial
progress has been made in tendering for the civil works of road improvements
and also in requesting proposals from consultants for various phases of the
work program. Civil works will be carried out under unit-price contracts



- 18 -
awarded after international competitive bidding following the Bank Group
Guidelines for Procurement. Twenty-four prequalified firms, some wholly
foreign-owned, some local and some joint ventures (combined domestic and
expatriate firms) were invited to submit bids for some of the roads in the
first package. By the end of March 1976, bids will have been invited for
civil works valued at about $59 million; tenders have been received for about
$28 million of this work, but the first contract will not be signed before
April 1976. Indonesian firms will be given a 7-1/2 percent preference in bid
evaluation in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A further prequalifica-
tion of contractors will be carried out in June and July 1976 for the second
550 km package of roads.
52.       Terms of reference have been agreed and proposals requested from
agreed lists of firms for the following consultant serv.ices: regional road
betterment offices; management services to DGH headquarters; construction
supervision of the North Sulawesi road and screening and design review.
Contracts valued at about $18 million are currently under consideration,
but the first contract which will not be signed before April 1976. The
estimated requirement for consultant services is about 180 expatriate man-
years at a cost of approximately $70,000 per man-year and about 600 local
man-years at a cost of approximately $25,000 per man-year.
53.       Since individual items to be financed under the proposed loan have
foreign exchange components generally in excess of 60 percent- and a large
number of contracts will be involved, it was decided for administrative
convenience to apply a uniform 60 percent disbursement rate to each item.
Disbursements for civil works would be completed about six months after
physical completion of the works or about December 1980. Disbursements for
consultants would begin in the second quarter of 1976 and be largely completed
by the end of 1978; remaining disbursements for supervision would be largely
completed by mid-1980.
Project Benefits and Justification
54.       The basic thrust of the DGH Betterment Program is to improve roads
which were originally designed to carry a small number of light pre-World
War II vehicles and now must accommodate a much larger volume of heavier
traffic. The aim is to avoid repeated repaving works by providing roads with
pavements designed for heavier loads and to further reduce vehicle operating
costs by selective improvements, such as widening of carriageways and shoulders.
The Betterment Program responds to the expansion of production activity, and
the rapid increase in motor vehicles over the past several years and the con-
sequent expansion of traffic especially on trunk roads. It will cover road
links selected on the basis of regional projections of traffic flows. With
the gradual improvement of the main roads under the Betterment Program, main-
tenance funds, which presently are devoted to providing these roads with
frequent repavings of limited life, will be released for other works, part-
icularly rehabilitation of secondary roads with lower traffic volumes where
simple pavement construction is more economical.



- 19 -
55.       Each of the roads in the first package is projected to experience
high growth of passenger car and truck traffic over the near and medium term.
Passengers cars 'include not only automobiles for private use but- a substantial
number of cars carrying persons for hire and minibuses and pick-ups converted
for passenger service. Historical traffic data for the road sections, though
only available for a few years and probably containing some inaccuracies,
point to a strong increase in car and truck traffic in the very recent past.
Two roads, Padang-Sawahtambang in Sumatera and Kotamobagu-Inobonto in Sula-
wesi which link to two major development roads currently being built under
previous IDA Credits arce expected to benefit from exceptional traffic in-
creases once these schemes are completed.
56.       The main benefits included in the economic analysis are savings in
avoided repaving expenses and related vehicle operating costs as the pavement
deteriorates and is repaired. Savings in vehicle operating expenses are also
attributed to widening of carriageways and improvement in shoulders. Other
benefits are expected to result from the proposed improvements but have
not been included in the analysis because they either are small or uncertain
in amount: realignments and grade improvements, bridge improvements, and
reduced accident costs. It may be noted that each $1.0 million of construc-
tion work under the Betterment Program is estimated to provide 100 man-years
of skilled jobs and about 100-500 man-years of unskilled jobs, depending on
the nature and location of the work. Out of total construction costs, approxi-
mately 10-15 percent will probably represent payments to labor.
57.       The economic rate of returns (ERR) on individual road segments in
the first package range from 12 to 29 percent and all the proposed improve-
ments are economically justified. The average ERR on all.1,100 km of roads to
be improved, accounting for some 90% of project cost, is estimated to be 19
percent. The Bettermeni: Program is expected to maximize benefits from invest-
ment in the highway sector by concentrating on sections which have a record of
frequent pavement repair; among these, the most attractive schemes will have
relatively low costs of construction and high traffic volumes; improvements to
be built concurrently with pavement strengthening will be considered but are
likely to be limited in most cases to bridge works and wider carriageways and
better shoulders. Road segments to be included in the second package of the
proposed project will be selected on the basis of feasibility stuldies, detailed
engineering and the results of tendering.
58.       Non-construction elements of the proposed project would have an
important bearing on the execution of the Betterment Program. Though no
attempt has been made to quantify benefits, support services would lay
the basis for improved fiuture functioning of highway organizations at all
levels of the Government, for upgrading the highway network and for fully
exploiting its potential.
59.       The project is not expected to have any significant adverse eco-
logical effects. The works are being designed to provide adequately for
drainage and for paving of shoulders when appropriate, to avoid flooding
and erosion. Location of the improvements is largely on existing align-
ments thus minimizing the requirements for additional land and disturbance
to property.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
61.       Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are
referred to in paragraphs 33, 47 and 48 of this report. A special condi-
tion of effectiveness would be that consultants required for initial project
implementation have been employed and taken up their posts.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President



fags 1 of 4 pags
TAULE 3*
tUONKtA             - U?CIAL ItOZCANSRS DATA SHT
LAND AREA   Tr)o SI)t                . . ......
---------  --                                 INDONESIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19?01
TOTAL     1904.3                                      NOST RECENT
ARABLE I    I.O                        19t60     1970   ESTIMATE          BANGLADESH     INDIA          PHILIPPINES *
GNP PER CAPIT6 CUSS)                      60.0      100.0       130.0               60.0      110.0       220.0
.. .__......__._..._.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION CNIO-YR. MtLLION)            95.4      115.6       124.4               70.8      538.1        36.9
POPULATION DENSITv
PER SQUARE KM.                        50.0       61.0        65.0              *96.0      100.0       123.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LAND              ..         ..       745.0              840.0      350.0
VITAL STATtsTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         43.0  La   42.0        42.0               44.0       38.0        45.0
CqUDE OEATH RATE PER THOUSANO         21.0  ZA&  21.0        21.0               21.0       16.0        12.0
INFANT NORTALtTY RATE (ITHOU)        125.0  z      *-*-                        140.0      1-30.        80.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 9IRTH CTRS)        48.0       4?.0        St.0               46.0       30.0        56.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2o.        3.2         1.1                3.1        2.9         3.3
POPULATION aROWTH RATE (%)-
TOTAL                                  2.1        2.0         2.0                2.?        2.1         1.0
UR9AN                                   ..        3.6         1.2                  .        4.0         4.0
URBAN POPULATION (S OF TOTAL)           15.0        17.0       18.0                 .        20.0        32.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 TEARS                        42.1       44.t        44.1                 ..       42.0        43.1
IS TC 64 YEARS                        55.4       53.A        51.4                          55.0        53.4
o5 YEARS AND OVER                      2.         2           2.5                 ..        3.0         3.5
AGE OEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9         0.9                           0.8         0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENOENCY RATIO                1.3          .         1.5                 .          1.  j      1.5
FAMILY rLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOUI                    234.2      480.2                  ..          .       2262.9
USE0S tI aF MARRIED NOMEN)              ..          .           .                                       8.0
E4PLOYMENT
TOTAL LA8OR FORCE (THOUSAN0)         34600.0         ..     401CC.O            22300.0   221000.0 /L 12100.0
LA3oR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)          68.0                   62.0               71.a        71.0       51.0
UNEMPLOYE0 (t OF LAROR FORCr)            5.4        2. 0 /a     5.4 /                .         3.0 /s     7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Z OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'O Ds-
HIGHEST  5s CF POPULATION                                                       16.?       2.0
HIGHEST 20X CF POPULATIaN               ..         .                            42.3 /     51.1l -
LOWEST  20X OF POPULATION               ..         ..          ..                7.9 7j     4.7
LOOEST  40X CF POPULATION               .          .           .                19.6      d1.1 /
OIStRrOUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
.....__ __.. _ ....._... _ .....*.._..
I OWNED BY TOP 10 OF OWNERS            48.0  b       .                           34 0
X OWINED BT SMALLEST 1O0 OWNERS          3.0 0.                  ..                1.0
HEALTr AND NUTRITION
....................
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             41000.0    27650.0     2388C.0             74600. 0   *8CO. 0.
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..     8o01.       6960.0            72030.0 i   5110.0IL
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BEO           1350.0     1720.0      1450.0             Z12.0 4    1620.0       850.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY Of
CALORIES (I IF REQUIRTNENTS)          89.0       89.0        t3.0                 .        93.0        85.0
PROTEIN (BRAMS PER DAY)               41.0       43.C        38.0                 ..       33.0        45.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL 4hO PULSE          15.0       14.0                                      16.0        22.0
CEATH RATE (/THOU) 4GES 14                ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..         7.o
E OUCAtIION
AOJUStEO ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        so.0 /     71.0        80.0               50.0       79.0       119.0
SECONoARY SCHOOL                       60        12.0        18C                15.0       28.0        45.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0        12.0               10.0       12.0        10.0
VOC4T IONAL ENROLLMENT
(s Of SECONDARY)                      20.0 /     28.0        28.0                1.0        6.0 ZL     10.0 / b
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                4*.0          *-        40.0 Q
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                ..         .          1.6
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (2)                         ..         ..        46.0 ^               ..         ..        66.0 A
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(s OF ALL OWELLtNGS)                                         64.C                                      23.0 A
RURAL OWELLtNGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRTCITY (t)                                           39.0                                       6.0 A
CONSUMPTION
RAOI0 RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           7.0      114.0          ..                6.0       21.0        45.0
PASSENGER CNRS (PER THOU POP)            1.0        2.0         3.C                1.0         1.0        8.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/TR PER CAPI            19.0       20.0        23.0               11.0      111.0       235.0
NEWSPRINT (KGIYR PER CAP)                0.2        0.2         0.2                           0.3         1.2/
SEE NOTES ANO DEFINITIONS ON REVESSE



-m I
Unleas othervise noted, daWe for 1960 refer to anW Year betweon 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 197, and for Most Reocent Estimate between
19f & 1973.
mxThe Philippines haa beow selected as an objective,mmta?rY for ita geopreph4cal similarity gand beeauhe of ita apparent advanCed stage of
oecomonc developeant.
INDONESIA      11_     /a Excludes West. Irian;    /b 1963;    a   1961-63.
1970.   La, ag stared applicanta for work.
6405 RECENT ESflIMTEs     La~ Unesplored workers seeking their first job;   aL 10 Yeasm and over, ahility to read and writ.. in either
Latin or nom-Latin charact.sre;  Z    Insids only.
/a0 1966-67, households;       lb   Registsred, not. all practicing in the. coantry;  cf Soeat. hopitas stlhet.
onlr;   /d  Approximate enrolaent as percentage of population in 6-10, and a1-15 age groups respectively;      /.  up
to end of seconld level.
INDIA          1270    /a   hAtin of population under 15 and 60 end over to labor torce age 15-59 years;    /bAM estimate of labor forcs in
age group 15-59. IBRD report fcves a figur of 180.4 3la.cn basedi o 1971 population cnsusa. The differenice is
duas to changes in the definition of a worker. In the 1971 census, perwons were classified only on the basis of their
main activities.  This led to the exclusion of aevaral. ca.tegories such as housewives;  /c  Registsred applicants
for work;   A~ 1967-68, households;     Lo, 1965.
gFMLpPFlmNg5    M       La  Pnhlc education ounly    &   1967;   La9 Imports only.
R9 March 17, 1976
DRYtI0T'64S OF 5OCT51 ThOICATORS
Land Area (tnooIn.?                                                                 Populatin pet nursing person - Population divided by n,xbar of pr.cti-
Total1  Total surf-acores conprising lend arses and inland ..tera,                     ring mil.e nd teowle graduate nurses. 'trained" or "certified"nrss
araba    M- st recent etaeof land area used trap-rrily, or permanently                 and ausiliary personne    ith training or ..perienc..
lotutivation.. ..ton.     market and kitchen gardens or to tie fallow.          ?opulatian par hospital bed - ?opulation divided by numoker of hospital
a (bS) - N? pr..pts .timat.0 a mar.t pi~e.  c.I.-bade avilahle to public and private general and speotelind hoops-
GNP per caia(7)          N appiieaiiteatmretpIcs                   1b-talad rehabilitation centsre; excludes nursing homs and estahlish-
lated bv Sase convrsion method as World Bank Atlas (19 72.14 basis).                 ment  for custodial and preventive care.
Per capita supply of calories Cl of requirements) - Canputed from
Ppoplatino sod vital statistics                                                        energy equivatent of met lead supplies available in coutry per
P.ocI.tion (.id--r. nililon) - A. of July firsr. if not available, aveatge             c-pito par day: available supplies comprise domestic prod-ction.
of - .oed-yesr eStimaes..                                                           imporn  less exports, and changes in stock; not eupieenolde
animal feed, scade * quantities used in foad pr-nasing and lea..a
Ppoplacion denelty - per egmoe h    - Mid-year population per oquare kilo-             in distribution; requirements were estimated hp FA0 based on physi-
metear (100 hectares) of total ores.                                                 ological needs for normal activity and health considering environ-
?popl.tion densitv   no.r sounrs ho of arable land - Computed as abov,e for            mantel temperature, body weights, age and sex distributians~ of
arabia l1nd onl-                                                                     population, ond allowin,g 117. for .ests at household lI-el.
Per capit. supply of prorein (oran par day) -Protein ontac.t of par
'::0  tatlotics                                                                     capita nat supply of food par day, net supply of food ia defined us
Cr-dt mirth race oer th..unod - Annual live hirthn per chousand of mod-                shove; requirements for all countries netablished by USDA Econonic
',ar .... 1taio.. usuily f-ve-oor averages ending in 1960. 1970 and                 Research Services provide  for a miniazsn allmuance of 60 grams of
1975 for develaping countries,                                                      total protein par day, and 20 gram   of animal and pulses protein, of
Crude deeth rere per thousand - Annual. deaths per thousand of mid-year                which 10 grams should be anima L protein: these standards are lowr
population: usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 sad 1975                than thess of 75 gram  of tonal protein and 23 gram   of animalI pro.
for developing noontrias.                                                           tei. as an average f or the vorld, proposed by FAO in the Third World
Infant mortality rate (/thoe  - Aanual deaths of iWants under one year                 Food Survey.
of age per thousand live births.                                                 Par capita portein supply fro   animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
Life ..P.ctanco at birth (yre) - 'verage oeber of peers of life remasin-               derived from aimals and pulses in greas per day.
lag at birth; usually five-year aver.ags ending in 1960, 1970 and                Death rats Ulthou) age. i-4 - A.-el deaths par thousand in age group 1-4
1975 far da-aloplng cotrirke.                                                       yearn, to children in this age, genup; eu9ggeted as an Indicator of
Cross repooduction rate - Average nmuber of live daughters a wonan will                malnutrition.
hear in her no-aol reproductive period if she espariences present age-
specific fericlity rates: usully five-year aversges ending In 1960,              Rducatior,
1970 and 1975 for developing countiree.                                          Adiusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollnent of all ages an
Population Rrowth rate (7) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-              percencage of primary school-age populsrion; t,rludee children aged
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1960 to moor recant year.                 b-1l yairs but adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
,popultion. grwth rote ('I) - urban - Conputed like growth rate of total               for countries with universal education, enrollment may emceed 1501
population: different definitions of urban areas nay affect tempera-                since sm   pupils are bel ow  r above the official school age.
.bikity of data among countries.                                                  Adiuated enrollment ratio - secondary echool - Conputed as above; second-
Urban population (I of total) - Ratio of urban to total population:                    sty education requires at least four years of approved prImary instruc-
diffsrmnt definitions of urben aress nay effant comparability of data               time; provides general, vocational -r teacher training ins tructions for
mamng countri.a.                                                                    pupils af 12 to 17 years of age; oorrespondence courses are &enerelly
Ax. structure (sercent) - Children (0-14 pairs), working-age (15-64 years),            excluded.
and retired (65 years and over) an parcanteges of mid-year population.           Years of echooligg provided (first end second levels) - Total years af
AR. d.penden.y ratie - gtio of papulation under IS and 65 and ovr to                   schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction, may he partially
those of ages IS through 64.                                                        or conpietely excluded.
Economic d.epedency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and avar            Vacatiomal enrollment Cl of secondary) - Vocational institutions Include
to the Labor farce in age group of 15-64 years.                                     technical, induatrisl or other pregras which operate independently
Family planetn  -                 lcett  caultive. thou  - Cumulative  ambar of        or as deparcatte of sacondary institutions.
acceptors of bith-oce        eie     ne    usie     fmtoe       aiyAdult literacy rate ()-Literste adults (able to read end write) as
planning program since, inception,                                                  percentage of total adult popnlatiom  aged 13 years and seer.
Family planninst - users (1 af married women) - Percetages of married
woma  of child-bearing age (15-44 peer) who use birth-control devices            Hus in&
to all married yomen in s  age group.                                            Persona per voon ("avrage) - Average namber of parsat per rome in occupied
conventional dwellings in urban are"s; dwellings exclude non-permanent
Emplovment                                                                             structures end unoccupied parts.
Total labor farce (thousand) - Economically active parons , including               occupied dwellings without piped weter A') - Occupied conventional dwell-
armed forces and onemployed but excluding houseives, students, etc.;                iogs in urban and rural areas without inside or macaide piped water
definitions in various ..untries are not cemparable.                                facilities as percemtage of 4ll occupied dullinga.
tabor farce in agriculture f7   - Agricultural labor force (in farmIstg,            Access to electricity ft of aLl dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
forestry, hunting and fishing) es percentage of wstal labor force,                  electricity in Living quarters as percent af total dwellings in urban
Unraploy.d (% of labor force) - Unemployed era usually dafimod as parsos               and rural areas.
whe are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day,             Rural dwellimgs conmected to electricityfl      Computed as sbove for
ratinad out of a job, and aeeking work far a specified    tm-nno                    rural dwellings only.
Period not exceeding one week; may not ha comparable between coustries
due to different deinitions of unemployed and source of data, e.g.,              Cooneuntion
employment office statistics, sample surveys, conpulsory unemploymsent           Radio receiver   (par thou pop) - All types of receiwver far radio broad-
inmurance.                                                                          Cas, to general pubLiC par thousand of population; excludae on-
licensed receivers L. cuencries and in yacre when regintration of
Inc=a distribution - Percentage ef privat.e income (both in cash and                   radio seats was in effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable
kind) received by richeet 51, richest 201, poorest 201, and poorest                 since neet coumntries abolished licensing.
401 of population.                                                               Poseaeeer cars (per thou pont - Passenger cars compris   mstor cars seailing
Less them eight prerson; excludes anbulances, hearses and military
Dietrib.tion of lend ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest               vehicles.
101 and poorest 101 of land ownars.                                              Nlectrr.cit  (kh/rX percan) - Annual consanprion of industrial, com-
mrerial, pebi an      rivate electricity In kilowatt hours par capital
Health and Nutrition                                                                   generally based on production data, without allomence for loesse  in
Posuistion Par physician - Pupulation divided by nmaser ef precticing                  grids but allowing for imports end exports of electricity.
physicians qualified from a sedical school at university level.                  Newsprin   (k/rPr ceo) - Per capita annual cnaumptlon in kilograms
selae  rmdomestic production plus net imports of neweprint.



A1EI I
Pegs 3 of It pages
ECONOIC INDCATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT 1I 1974                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
r^; niL         %                      1960 -65          1965 -70          19714
GNP at Market Priest       22W&79         100.0                       1.9              4.9             5.6
Gross Domestic Investomt    4330           19.3                       3.3             11.5            19.2
Gross National Saving       4336           19.3                       5.8              5.1            64.8
Current Account Balance        6            (.0
Exports of Goods, 2FS       6755           30.0                       1.5              7.8             0.5
Imports of Goods, NFS       5527           24.6                       0.2             10.9            33.2
OUTPUT, LAOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
V!alue Added-                Labor Forc/                  V. A. Per Worker
'_ L            C              Nl. US 3 
Agriculture                  14221      44.8                30.5      69.0                 138        65
Industry                     1915       20.3                 3.0       6.8                 638       300
Services                     3279       34.9                 8.3      18.8                 395       185
Unallocated                   -          -                   2.4       5.4
Total/Average                       I                  V <
945       100.0                                              -1     0   To-.0
GOVERNMT FINANCE
Central Governnmnt
(D BLk          % of MP
17275       1974        L973
Current Receipts                          1759      17.9        15.0
Current Expenditure                       100       10.2        10T8
Current Surplus                            s '       7            i
Capital Expenditures                       966       9.8         7.3
External Assistance (net)                  234        2.4        3.2
1MIEY. CRiED!? and PRICES               1370         1971        1972       1973         74         1975
-tluan BP. outstanding end periodT           June
MHney and Quasi Money                    330          469         695         987       11452       1776
Bank credit to Public Sector              57          129          58          37       -  2       - 29
Bank Credit to Private Sector            306          451         555         936       1126        1837
(Percentages or Indez Numbers)
Money and Wuasi Money as % of GDP          9.9         12.8        15.2        14.6        14.8
General Price Indes(sept. 1966'100)      612          638         680         891        1253
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Inde                        12.3          4.2         6.6        31.0        40.6
Bank credit to Public Sector            - 5.0         126.3      - 55.0      - 36.2
Bank credit to Private Sector             77.9         47.4        23.0        68.6       20a3
NOTHs All oenvereions to dollars ir this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
V   Conversion at an exhange rate oml p. 390 uU$L.
2  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their norma ocupaetion. "Unallocated" consista
mainly of unemployed worker seeking their firrt Job.
not axailable
. not applicable



ARN! I
Page 4 of 4 pages
RAD   PADEf      AND CAPITAL FWOB
BALANCE OF PAYMEMS                                                   MERCHANDISE 3XPORTS CAVERACE 1972_74)
l B2  1973    1974                                               US S Mln    X
Mllions US S)Est.
4Oil                                                                  2260      59.1
Zxports of Goods, NFS         1757      2957     6755              Rubber                              359      9.4
Imports of Goods,-NFS         1875      3170     5527             Tinber                               513     13.4
Resource Gap (defieLt     - -)  -M     Fh!- 1CZ8 Palm Oil                                               93      2.4
Tin                                 104      2.7
Interest Payments (net)      - 46      -  50     106              cOffee                               84      2.2
Workers' Remittances             _        -       .
Other Factor Payments (net)   - 318    - 543    .116
Net Transfers                 - 364    - 593    .1222               All other commodities              410     10.8
Balance on Current Account    z   2     -5      +                        Total                        3823    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       258      290      471             ETERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 17T4
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                447      624     1072                                                       US $ Min
Amortization               -  70    - 138      231
Subtotal                     377     4486      81                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             5&85
Capital Grants                   ..       ..       ..               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             181      208)   - 628               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                       1147)      .,
Increase in Reserves (+)        432      325      690             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974-1/
Gross Reserves (end year)       574      806     1473
Net Reserves    (end year)      458      783     1473               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             7.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         4        4         4
of which:  Petroleum          2        2        1
Exports                       877     1348      4556
of which: Petroleum         877     13148     4556      IBRD/IDA LENDING& (Jan. 31. 1976) (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                      IBRD        IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed               61.6       315.7
Throunh JuIy 1971              Since August 1971               Undisbursed                         386;4        246.1
1. 00  US $0.27                1. 00 - R  $o.oCe          Outstanding iDCl. Undisbursed       1416.        561.6
I/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services,
with oil exports net of factor payments and imports of the oil sector
.  not available
. not applicable
march 19, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS CIF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A.. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1976)
Loan/                                                        US$ Million
Credit      Fiscal                                      Amount (less cancellation)
Number       Year          Purpose                      Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                  11.0
154-        1969   Highway                                     28.0      0.2
155         1969   Agricultural Estates                        16.0      0.2
165         1970   Electicity Distribution                     15.0      0.2
193         1970   PUSRI Fertilizer                            35.0      0.1
194         1970   Second Agricultural Estates                 17.0      2.6
195         1970   Second Irrigation Rehabilitation            18.5      1.0
210         1971   Telecommunications Expansion                12.8      0.2
211         1971   Fisheries                                    3.5      0.2
219         1971   Education                                    4.6      0.7
220         1971   Third Irrigation Rehabilitation             14.5      2.0
246         1971   Seeds                                        7.5      2.7
259         1971   Tea                                         15.0      4.3
260         1971    Second Highway                             34.0      5.5
275         1972   Third Technical Assistance                   L .0     1.0
288         1972   Second Education                             6.3      5.6
289         1972   Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation            12.5      2.3
300         1972   Population                                  13.2      8.2
310         1972   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)         10.0      1.5
318         1972   Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation            8.5      4.3
319         1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                 11.0      6.8
334         1973    Second Electricity Distribution            40.0     17.1
355         1973   BeeE Cattle Development                      3.6      2.8
358         1973   North Sumatera Smallholder Development       5.0      3.1
387         1973   Thi:rd Education                            13.5     11.1
388         1973   Third Highway                               14.0      7.7
399         1973   Wesi: Java Thermal Power                    46.0     36.2
400         1973    SmaLlholder and Private Estate Tea          7.8       7.4
405          1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation              50.0      32.5
428         1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate               16.5      14.9
436         1974    Privrate Development Finance Co. (PDFCI)   10.0       8.2
451          1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                 5.0      4.4
479         1974    Bal:L Tourism                              16.0      15.3
480         1974    Fisheries Credit                            6.5       6.3
514         1975    JatiLluhur Irrigation Extension            30.0      29.5



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
(Continued)
Loan/                                                       US$ Million
Credit      Fiscal                                     Amount (less cancellation)
Number       Year          Purpose                      Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
1005         1974   Railway                            48.0              47.0
1040         1975   Jakarta Urban Development          25.0              20.2
1049         1975   Five Cities Water Supply           14.5              13.6
1054         1975   Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                     50.0             46.5
1089         1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion       115.0              67.1
1100         1975   Sixth Irrigation                   65.0              64.7
1127         1975   Fourth Power                       41.0              41.0
1139         1976   Fertilizer Distribution            68.0              64.8
1179 /a-     1976   Agricultural Research &
Extension                       21.5              21.5
Total                                       448.0    561.8    632.5
of which has been repaid                                        -
448.0   561.8
Amount Sold                    0.1
of which has been repaid       0.0            0.1
Total now held by Bank and
IDA (prior to exchange
adiustment)                                 447.9    561.8
Total undisbursed                           386.4    246.1    632.5
/a   Became effective February 23, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14
STATEMENT CIF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1976)
Fiscal                                   Type of               USS million
Year        Obligor                     Business          Loan   Equity   Total
1971      P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6    2.5     13.1
1971      P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5    0.8      3.3
1971      P.T. Primatexco Indonesia    Textiles             2.0    0.5      2.5
1971      P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cables               2.8    0.4      3.2
1972      P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.                Textiles             4.5    1.5      6.0
1973      P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel      Tourism             11.0     -      11.0
1973      P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4    0.7      6.1
1974      P.T. Primate:cco Indonesia   Textiles             2.0    0.3      2.3
1974      P.T. Monsanto Pan
Electronics                 Electronics          0.9     -      0.9
1974      P.T. PDFCI                   Devlp. Fin. Co.      -      0.5      0.5
1974      P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4    0.6      3.0
1974      P.T. Semen Ci.binong         Cement               5.0     1.5     6.5
Total               49.1     9.3    58.4
Less: sold or
repaid and
cancelled        20.2     1.5    21.7
Total now held       28.9    7.8    36.7
Undisbursed
(including parti-
cipant's portion)     5.4     1.5     6.9



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 127:      Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$5 Million Credit of
September 6, 1968; Effective Date: March 25, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
It is expected that all civil works will be completed
by March 1976. Additional drainage work will be carried out under Loan
1100-IND and tertiary development under the proposed Irrigation VII Project.
The closing date has been postponed by one year to allow for payment of
late accounts. The adequacy and timeliness of operation and maintenance
of completed irrigation rehabilitation projects is presently under discus-
sion with the Government.
Cr. No. 154:      Highways:   US$28 Million Credit of June 20, 1969;
Effective Date: October 2, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975.
Rehabilitation work, of acceptable quality, has been
completed. The work accomplished exceeded the project's original target.
The program for improved highway maintenance included in the project has
been completed. A project completion report is being prepared for issuance
before June 30, 1976.
Cr. No. 155:      Agricultural Estates:   US$16 Million Credit of June 20,
1969; Effective Date: December 10, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
With improvements in management and much higher inter-
national prices, particularly for palm oil, prevailing in 1974, the
financial position of the estate groups has improved. The field and
factory standards have now been raised to a good technical level and
the managements have been advised to concentrate on cost control in order
to prepare for the time when produce prices may become less attractive.
The combined efforts of the management, consultants and IDA missions
to review project implementation are yielding good results. The closing
date has been postponed to December 31, 1976 to enable payment to con-
sultants for services for other rubber estates.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
Cr. No. 165:      Electricity Distribution:   US$15 Million Credit of
Octo'ber 29, 1969; Effective Date: June 1, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
The closing date was postponed to December 31, 1975, to
allow for payment of small amounts outstanding. The project completion re-
port will be prepared Ln conjunction with that for Credit No. 334.
Cr. No. 193:      PUSRI Fertilizer:   US$35 Million Credit of June 15,
1970 (as amended May 21, 1973); Effective Date:
January 15, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The urea plant has successfully passed its performance
test and is operating at close to rated capacity. The gas gathering
and transmission system is also completed and sufficient gas is being
delivered to 'the plant.  The closing date has been postponed to December
31, 1976 to allow for delivery and installation of remaining equipment.
Cr. No. 194:       Second Agricultural Estates:  US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
After initial delays, there have been considerable
improvements in management and these, combined with high prices, particular-
ly for palm oil, have resulted in the two estate groups being put in a
much stronger financial position. On the rubber group (PNP IV) more effort
is necessary to improve agricultural standards and tapping methods. With
the rapid expansion of Lnvestment of the palm oil group (PNP VI), there is
a need to employ expertLse in financial planning, control and management,
which are now the main constraints to efficient development. This estate
group is undertaking action in this respect. The closing date has been
postponed by one year to allow payment for remaining equipment, civil
works and consultants' contracts.
Cr. No. 195:       Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$18.5 Million Credit
of Junte 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: November 30, 1976.
Problems of quality and progress of construction still
exist, but the project entity assisted by the consultants are tackling
these vigorously, and the situation is improving, although not sufficiently
to make up for earlier delays. Costs are likely to be double the overall
appraisal estimate, due to inflation, but the Government will provide any
additional funds required. Completion of disbursements will be about two
years behind the original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
Cr. No. 210:      Telecommunications Expansion:   US$12.8 Million Credit
of July 13, 1970; Effective Date: February 18, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Contracts for all equipment have been awarded. The
physical work has been substantially completed. The troposcatter system
and the telex installation has been completed. Although Government has
increased tariffs, PERUMTEL's financial results are not satisfactory and a
review of its financial position is required. The closing date, which had
been postponed by 18 months due to delays in the delivery of goods, has been
postponed by another six months to allow for payments-of outstanding contracts.
Cr. No. 211:      Fisheries:   US$3.5 Million Credit of July 13, 1970;
Effective Date: January 15, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976.
The credit helps finance the construction of 30 fully
equipped skipjack boats, auxiliary facilities and technical assistance.
The project is about two years behind the original schedule due to delays
in engaging consultants and in executing contracts for the shore facilities.
There has been a substantial project cost increase but the project is still
expected to be financially viable due to the greatly increased skipjack prices.
Government plans to replace the present project management and seek early al-
location of the additional funds necessary for full operation.
Cr. No. 219:      Education:   US$4.6 Million Credit of November 6, 1970;
Effective Date: January 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Project implementation in the Department of Education
is satisfactory. Civil works for the five Technical Training Centers
(TTCs) have been completed. About 90 percent of the equipment has been
purchased and about 60 percent delivered and installed. All TTCs will
operate at full capacity by January 1976 when the new academic year begins.
Over 500 technical teachers have completed or are about to complete their
training. Technical assistance financed by the U.K. for the project is
also satisfactory. Disbursement has improved considerably. Revised
total project cost is now about 40 percent above appraisal estimate. The
Government will finance the cost overrun. The project is expected to be
completed about three months ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 220:      Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$14.5 Million Credit
of November , 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Construction remains about two to three-years behind
schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties in preparation
of contract document, late financial allocations, heavy rains in the 1973 con-
struction season and, more recently, slow response by GOI to high inflation
rates and consequent civil works costs overruns - have been mainly overcome,



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
but time lost-cannrot be regained. Estimated project cost is 50 percent
above the appraisal estimate, but with higher rice prices on the world
market, the project's economic rate of return remains over 20 percent.
The closing date has been postponed by 18 months as a result of project
delay.
Cr. No. 246:      Seeds3:  US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
Signiificant progress has been made in the construction
of the irrigation infrastructure and in land development at the National
Seeds Corporation (NSC). Construction is proceeding satisfactorily and is
now 70 percent completed. The inadequacy of NSC management at the opera-
tional level is reflected in technical production problems, low yields of
seed and high costs of production. Increasing nation-wide production prob-
lems caused by prevalent disease, pests and insect losses has resulted in
government authorities now giving certified seed production high priority.
Cr. No. 259:       Tea:  US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded
appraisal expectations necessitating construction and rehabilitation
of three additional factories. Project completion, estimated for December
1977, can probably be advanced by up to one year. Rising costs are creating
pressure on available funds and the main challenge for the two PTPs will
be to reduce working capital requirements, as well as overhead and indirect
costs, and improve labor productivity.
Cr. No. 260:       Second Highway:  US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date:   August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Construction work is about 80 percent finished and should
be completed by August 1]976, about one and a half years behind schedule.
The delay was caused largely by slow progress in mobilizing contractors,
difficulties in equipment delivery, heavy rains and landslides. The closing
date has therefore been postponed to December 31, 1976. Design standards for
the road sections have been slightly lowered and some savings have been
achieved, which, together with other savings have partly offset construction
cost increases.
Cr. No. 275:       Third Technical Assistance: US$4.0 Million Credit of
December 29, 1971; Effective Date: February 25,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress on this project is satisfactory. The closing
date has been postponed by another year to complete disbursements for
ongoing studies.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
Cr. No. 288:      Second Education:   US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This agricultural training project, being implemented
by the Department of Agriculture, is about 16 months delayed because of
late appointment of consultant architects, lack of counterpart funds, delays
in bid analysis and in awarding contracts. As a result, civil works,
which were to be completed already, have not commenced. Furniture and
equipment procurement have therefore been deferred.. Unlike the physical
aspects of the project, the educational aspects are generally on schedule.
Total project costs are now estimated to be 90 percent higher than the
original estimate. Government has budgeted for the cost overrun. Disburse-
ment, which has been slow, should improve since civil works contracts have
now been awarded.
Cr. No. 289:      Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
Civil Works and equipment purchases for the main project,
Pekalen-Sampean, are proceeding but completion of civil works will be
about two years behind schedule. Due to inflation, project costs are
likely to be substantially higher than appraisal estimates. Consultants
for the various studies are at work with their counterparts. Groundwater
investigations have been delayed due to procurement difficulties. The
rehabilitation and storage feasibility studies are on schedule. Disburse-
ments are also on schedule.
Cr. No. 300:      Population:   US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Progress of this project is generally satisfactory.
Steps are being taken to improve preparation and implementation of project
components concerned with. communications, research and evaluation. All
vehicles have been procured and good progress. is being made with equipment
procurement. The civil works section of the Project Implementation Unit
functions well but is underutilized because of delays in making policy
decisions. Construction costs will exceed appraisal estimates by 135
percent. Population Education is now being introduced into school curricula
after a successful trial. Despite its limitations, the national family
planning program, of which the project is an integral part, is expanding
annually.
Cr. No. 310:      Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I):    US$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This credit is fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
Cr. No. 318:       Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation:  US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972;, Closing Date: September 30, 1976.
Progress on this project is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 319:      Fourth Agricultural Estates:   US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The physical progress of the project is ahead of the
appraisal schedule. The financial position of the estate group is dif-
ficult due to an unsatisfactory debt/equity ratio. Measures to improve
the situation are under review.
Cr. No. 334:       Secon(i Electricity Distribution:  US$10 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits
165-IND and 334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays
due to procurement problems and cumbersome management procedures. As a result
the project is two years behind the original schedule. These difficulties
have been resolved and recent progress is encouraging. No further delays
are therefore expected.
Cr. No 355:        Beef Cattle Development:  US$3.6 Million Credit of
Januarlr 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closin; Date: March 31, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project imple-
mentation. Land acquisition and procurement of cattle and goods have been
difficult. Government's budget allocation has been insufficient; and fi-
nancial management and coordination have been weak. The last supervision
mission undertook a thorough project review and its recommendations, which
include major changes in project scope and objectives, are presently under
discussion with Governmenc.
Cr. No. 358:      North Sumatra Smallholder Development:    US$5 Million
Credit of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project performance, which had suffered from severe fin-
nancial and organizational difficulties, has improved greatly. Physical
progress is encouraging; rubber planting and rice intercropping are now
on schedule. There is some room for improvement in financial management,
in which consultants are assisting. Total project costs are now estimated
at about three times the original estimate of US$10 million. Disbursements
are expected to be completed ahead of schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
Cr. No. 387:      Third Education:   US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1,
1973; Effective Date: August 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is about 10 months behind schedule, mainly due
to insufficient top management staff and paper shortages last year. The paper
shortage has been overcome and about 32 million text books will be printed by
January 1976, about four months behind schedule. Steps are being taken to
strengthen project management and to improve arrangements for expert services.
Measures to improve project implementation have been discussed and agreed with
the Government. The book testing and teacher training programs are on schedule,
but their results have not yet been evaluated. Procurement of instructional
equipment will be completed by early 1976.
Cr. No. 388:      Third Highways: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections
in the project was started early in 1974 under two contracts and is now 35
percent completed. Contractors have been delayed mainly because of long
mobilization periods and heavy rains. Project costs will likely exceed
original estimates (including contingencies) by 57 percent mainly due to
sharply escalated prices. The training program has been completed success-
fully.
Cr. No. 399:      West Java Thermal Power:   US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 mw units at Muara
Karang were about 65 percent higher than estimated at the time of appraisal.
This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in an increase
in the total project cost of more than 100 percent. Government will provide
the additional funds required. PLN has satisfactorily met the initial targets
in its financial recovery plan provided for under the terms of the Credit
Agreement.
Cr. No. 400:       Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:   US$7.8 Million
Credit of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Planting is presently slightly behind schedule but
it is expected that targets will be achieved or even exceeded by the end
of the 1975/76 planting season. Project nurseries are well organized
and field work is proceeding well. Also non-participating farmers have
benefitted from the project. Total project costs are estimated to be
double the amount originally envisaged and project management is attempting
to achieve cost reductions. Due to the high prices for tea (about twice
the level expected at the time of appraisal), the economic rate of return
is still satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
Cr. No. 405:       Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:   US$50 Million Credit of
Jttne 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
In view of the rapid and continuing increase in the cost
of sugar factory machinery and the more recent shortage of budgetary funds,
the scope of the above-mentioned project has been reduced by the deletion of
six minor rehabilitations from the project description. The revised project
consists of the major rehabilitation of two factories and the construction
of a new factory. Credit funds have been reallocated from the minor to
the major rehabilitation and to the new construction.
Cr. No. 428:       Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate:   US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Despite an increase in construction costs, the project
remains financially viable because revenues from the sale of plots has
risen proportionately. Constructioni has fallen behind schedtule duie tn
land acquisition problems, but developed land is being occupied as fast
as it is made availabLe. While there is stiLl a backlog of applications
for industrial plots, the rate of new applications has fallen off during
recent months and the estate is intensifying its promotional efforts.
Cr. No. 436:       Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI): US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: March 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
After a long start-up period anld difficulties in finding
and recruiting qualified local staff, PDFCI has now reached the operating
stage. Commitments have started and are expected to increase rapidly
as PDFCI's own operational capability improves.
Cr. No. 451:       Fourth Technical Assistance:   US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 479:       Bali Tourism:  US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Project implementation has improved after initial diffi-
culties.  Tender documents for all major infrastrtieture works were issuied
in January 1976.   The earLiest possible completion (date hias shitted Erom
February 1979 to October 1979.   Budigetary allocations as ri'quesrod bY the
Bali Tourism Development Corporat ion for 1Y70/77 are satisfactory.    Negotia-
tions witli one groul of investors are in progrtss hut otherwise ini'estor in-
terest appenrs to be low. Promotional ffrorts to itt r.ict addit ion.il investors
will be intensified in 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
Cr. No. 480:      Fisheries Credit:   US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
After initial delays in project organization and preparation
by Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), the project is progressing well. Physical
progress is encouraging and lending started in October1975. Disbursements are
therefore expected to be on schedule soon.
Cr. No. 514:         Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension:   US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The consultants are designing works and preparing contract
documents. The first civil works contract is expectd to be let in May 1976,
about nine months behind the original schedule.
Loan No. 1005:       Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement of material and equipment, which had been
slow due to poor organization and inadequate budget allocation, has now
improved. Bids have been received for most items and the bulk of the con-
tracts should be signed soon. Passenger traffic in 1975 is slightly lower
than in 1974, but still higher than forecast; freight traffic has continued
to decline due mainly to poor maintenance and inadequate motive power, which
should improve towards the end of 1976. Although tariffs were raised in May
1975, increasing passenger revenues by about 25 percent and freight revenues
by about 10 percent, the operating ratio is likely to deteriorate further, as
operating costs have continued to rise at a faster rate.
Loan No. 1040:       Jakarta Urban Development:   US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress on the Kampung Improvement Program has been
very good; costs were less than estimated, allowing additional work to be
undertaken. Execution of the Klender Sites and Services Scheme is a year
behind schedule due to disagreements about site boundaries. Most consultant
contracts commenced early in 1976.
Loan No. 1049:       Five Cities Water Supply:   US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the
project is running 8-10 months behind schedule. This delay together



A\NNfEX I T
P;ge 13 of 14
with higher rates-of inflation than anticipated is-expected to increase
project costs 20-25 percent above the appraisal estimate. Water Fnterprises
have now been established in each of the five cities and good progress has
been made in their staffing.   The anticipated interdepartmental decree which
wotld govern the relationship of the Water Enterprises to the Central Govern-
nent's Directorate of Sanitary Fngineering has not been issued; it is now
proposed to clarify this relationship in a Presidential Decree which is
being drafted.
Loan No. -054:     Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):   US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Commitments and disbursements initiallv were slower
than expected, but they should increase in the second half of FY76. The
progress of this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1089:     Second Fertilizer Expansion:   US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date:   August 31, 1978.
Work on the PUSRI III project is proceeding according to
schedule. Work on the rElated gas pipeline is experiencing delay, but steps
are being taken to expedite implementation.
Loan No. 1100:     Sixth Irrigation:   US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Consultants for the project and technical assistance advisors
have been selected. Construction work is about five months behind schedule
due to the delay in selection of consultants.
Loan No. 1127:     Fourth Flower:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The options for a third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang, which
were included in the tenders for the first two units financed under Credit
399, have been excercised. The project is on schedule and expected to be
completed during 1978.
Loan No. 1139:     Fertilizer Distribution:   US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Eate: December 31, 1978.
Progress design is satisfactory. About 60 percent of the
equipment and materials required for the project have been procured.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
Loan No.. 1179:   Agricultural Research and Extension:  US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on February 23, 1976.
Loan No. 1197:    National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:  US$13.0
Million Loan of February 5, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
This loan is expected to be effective by May 1976.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA: FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia.
Amount:                $130 million.
Terms:                 25 years, including 5 years of grace.
Project Description:   The proposed project would provide for:
(a)   construction and supervision of about 1,100
km of road improvements;
(b)   screening feasibility studies of 7,000 Km
of roads for future road improvements;
(c)   detailed engineering of 4,100 km of roads
in Sumatera, Java and Bali;
(d)   detailed engineering of the Jakarta-Cikampek
road (70 km);
(a)   measures to strengthen highway authorities in
planning, budgetary control, construction
management, training, mobilization of the con-
sulting and construction industries, and other
selected-areas;
(f)   studies of vehicle weights and dimensions and
road user charges, and a review of the adminis-
tration and enforcement of highway legislation;
and
(g)   procurement of equipment for training programs
and traffic data collection.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Costs of the Project:
Local Foreign Total
A. Elements Proposed for Bank Financing                  (US$ Million)
I. Road Construction, Including Bridges
(a) First Package of about 550 km                 18.9   44.1   63.0
(b)  Second Package of about 550 km               18.9   44.1   63.0
Subtotal                                  37.8   88.2  126.0
II. Services in Support of Selected Activities
of Indonesian Highway Authorities
Subtotal                                 11.1   15.9   27.0
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                                     4.9   10.4   15.3
Price (29%) 2                                      15.0  33.5   48.7
Subtotal                                 20.1  43.9   64.0
Total                                    69.0 148.0  217.0
B. Elements Not Proposed For Bank Financing
I.  Preliminary Engineering of 2,500 km                o.8   o.6    1.4
II.  Assistance of the UNDP                             0.2   0.7    0.9
III.  Equipment                                           -    0.7    0.7
IV.  Land Acquisition                                  14.0    -    14.0
Subtotal                                 15.0   2.0   17.0
Total                                    84.0 150.0  234.0
1/ 10% on all items.
2/ For construction (including physical contingencies)t 12% p.a.;
For services 15% on total (including physical contingencies).



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financial Plan:        The proposed loan of US$130 million would finance
56 percent of total project costs, or 87 percent of
the foreign exchange costs. The remaining costs will
be financed by the Borrower and UNDP.
Estimated
Disbursements:       Banik FY   1976   1977  1978    1979   1980   1981
(US$ Millions)
Annual       1.0   19.0  45.2   42.0   20.8    2.0
Cumulative   1.0   20.0  65.2  107.2  128.0    130.0
Procurement:           Civil works will be carried out under contracts awarded
after international competitive bidding following Bank
Group Guidelines for Procurement. For bid comparison,
Indonesian firms will be allowed a 7-1/2 percent prefer-
ential margin.
Technical
Assistance:          The technical assistance component of the project,
of which the Bank will finance about $16 million,
provides for the following activities:
(a)   construction supervision;
(b)   screening - feasibility studies of improve-
ments necessary for 7,000 km of roads;
(c)   detailed engineering of 4,100 km of road
improvement as identified in (b) above;
(d)   detailed engineering of Jakarta-Cikampek
road (70 km);
(e)   management assistance; and
(f)   studies of vehicle weights and dimensions
and road user charges, and a review of
the administration and enforcement of high-
way legislation. It is estimated that about
180 man-years of expatriate and 600 man-years
of local services will be required.



ANNEX III
Page 4
Economic Rate of
Return               For individual road segments in the first 550 km
to be improved, the economic rate of return ranges
from 12 to 29 percent, and averages 19%.
Appraisal Report       No. 983a-IND, dated March 12, 1976.
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department.



5609B  1        00 T     H    A    I    L    A   N    D   (....... -. . ....HI ADPHILIPPINES
6 rhe- boondries show. n this mnap do not  .  BRUNEI   -         PROJECT LOCATIONS
imnply endorsement or aceeptance by the  k ~      -     M        P      OCTO
World Rank andits effdollkes.      A  L  Y  s  I -  
' '  rnarne                         taL$NGA ~~~       ~   ~~~~~~~~POREp 
YKALIMANTAN- /u-EI
mgoS Kaba                                                                  IRIAN JAYAl
Ma a  \gt/ORi 2              R   OF        VA       A 
40                 R        A  tBI.kejer  Ta ungpuea  *
FLORES      T MI M R
oInimapugu           KUALA
Tapoktoan       omon      K!-ni            QoLUMPUR
Sidikalnn      Snnpo Mnwt
MALAYSIA
I"buhonbiliks
20                            Too g Rontaupr2pa
SbI Sipirk
<>     ~~~~Padangsid'P< '     w          1            <iG      OR'
7~7~~SNGPORE
>  a     \   \ <    ~~      ~ OyktOb  , 0 Rnnt ( .>J6ZIz   )
\_m3 Uernbabt. na                        n  '  l neiporo .i
Natal   4 :.   ;        Pa nbr 
Oa  3: >   >;lkaping  Pa                         Pegapiog      20
APPRAISAL, OF                                   Sbkoo    PmaInng    ANaKamnA
SU M~~~~~~~~~rATER                                    Pedagr Lbutraolih  K*. ., ,  Afn 
Sr  \   9   Simpangkotabaru.~~~t  ..rterakmpD
40               NATIONAL HIG  YSSnipeh                                                   P        ngkoik2
INDONESIA                                                 rft orjoms.reik
APPRAISAL      OFRAILWAYS
SUMATERA                                  <u        P   amnri       gKyaug,
o40              NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                          Beguu<<.                     .   ./4q
.PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS                            Tai    >      a   MrtP; 
RAI LWAYS           -.ast                                       g>&       Un9gla
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION-SECOND PROJECT (CR. 260 IND)
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION- FOURTH PROJECT
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                       K             Tonjon9lar.ng
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                         Ko        Pongng>g
oo                                                                                                  6..'.
0      100     200    300
JAVA
KILOMETERS                                                       - <     -   _
0  50  100  150  200
MILES
960             990               1000              102              1040            106,     ut
01 






IBRD-11747
N                  Idr             1029             I0f             I                1110          -'     o  IaP                AUGUST 1975
I NDON E SIA Ao
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
R   A/14PUIVG                                       JAVA AND BALI
9;          /                                                                                             E  Mv44rrs  Stralt        J rz U G  S N -O
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
I PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS        I
- RAILWAYS                                           0Np
......sinrann9                                    -  PROJECT CONSTRUCTION- FOURTH PROJECT
Pool.'9  I                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEASIBILITY STUDY ASS DETAILED ENGINEERI  B'Ao,u
- \  .  PROYINCIAL BOSUNDAHIES                             t  J
CaN on 0, X   ,                                 -   -   -   INTERNATIONAL  B DUNDARIES                                 GIIIooN A   BOUNDARIES
07KaFland;t_,;; <t.'                                 MILES
L                            l  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20 90 90 E0 190)                                         0PLOu H  An
S  ,=  /    a     ^    <:i       5    @   ,,<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rtwlt  'UlQlH
M..  kT                                     f  g 1 1~~9' I ,
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* go                                        -~Oo      9$
L                     r=2  ~~~~~~~~~~~~N u..r
/rdan   ha= AREA DF MAF  LORE9 C2  S7 TIiDP
-I -r                       Fl  COH                           ->   <     EAS       JAV
GOR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~          o           aeag      ooooY
IRE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 70700001 ISONt                     <og
S-.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~7 
THAILUO  PROESE LOATION           Cik                                                                                  ool A  5BT  V   AA
-F                      clil.                                                                AD')P IL PRt0  U NSis  O LN   1C
I O  MA  Al
kI0I~11AN  J-A`
JAVA  DLI~ J,TM.






THAILAND                                                    I
* _  hw_              Q|1PROJECT LOCATIONS         124t00'                    124t30'                    125 00
'C'\ qliii 50 th C:  -,,,;g,40
A               ~~~~~~~~~Am.o o M.p  C)
SIN APORE          '      fD
e>X<X~~~K MA AN 
O LAWESI  Cr==;  C '
RIAN JAYA
AVA<or4tt-z2eSjEgR   <              t 0                                            MM4AOO  Maol-(-unXl)  3btunC/M  1'30'
mald:0 n Ocoota              C:Z!NLORES  tI-MOR                                   5t,(E.p                                    t pc|
b--    A-ubl   -hw   Mn  -amp do n-                                                                   \I           / 
IWId&,skoodO  Sooo
l'O                                                                             P09                                                        l X OO/
7             <   a                           _           Ju             >           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
/ K / ,5 \ fl < ^ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~APPRAISAL OF A
<(                     /     S                   1        Kotomobo~~     ~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~gu   FOURTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
l l < 2 ti / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTH SULAWESI
- bmD,a1                                                                                                NATIONAL HiiGHWAYS
J \ t H \/                             O Dumogobesor              J        |      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS
</   \\  %   Botudoro  (            ooSO9iOv                      <_           |  _  PROJECTCONSTRUCTION -THROPROJECTCR.3381NOJETCONTRUTIONOTH.DPRJECTR.33IND
g                  _   Imondl                   9            1-~~~~ PROJECT CONSTRUCTION
=<onrolo    =                      tDuluduo                      _             | _  _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL 30UNDARIESO10
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                        1                 10
MILOESI
\ NORTH 10                                                                                          20   30SU
n IfOVNCA                                         H     EIHA S
123~~~ 00'  123~~~~~ 30'     124'00'                    124' 30'                 1~~~~~~~0  0 250  3  4  5



