Report No. 983a-IND
Indonesia: Appraisal of
A Fourth Highway Project
FILE COPY
March 12, 1976
Transportation Division
East Asia and Pacific Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -    Rupiah (Rp)
US$1           -    Rp 415
Rp 1           -    USJO.24
Rp 1 million   =    US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                              British/US
1 millimeter (mm)              0.04 inch (in)
1 centimeter (cm)              0.39 inch (in)
1 meter (m)     3              3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)             35.29 cubic feet (ft3)
1 kilometer (km)         -    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) -    0.39 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)           -    2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)              -    0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
-    0.26 US gallons (gal)
i kilogram (kg)                2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)     =    2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
ADT       -    Average Daily Traffic
BAPPENAS  -    National Planning Council
DGH       -    Directorate General of Highways
DPUP      -    Provincial Public Works Department
EBRR      -    Economic Rate of Return
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
HPAT      -    UNDP Highways Planning Advisory Team to DGH
HOC       -    Ministry of Transport, Communications
and Tourism
MNPW      -    Ministry of Public Works and Power
PUSRI     -    P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja
RLS       -    Regular Liner Service of Inter-Island Shipping
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL O0
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMKARY AND CONCLUSIONS  *......................... .. i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION . .............................1........... 
II.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .......................3
A.   Economic Setting  .................................                 3
B.   Transport Modes ..................................                 4
C.   Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination ......    5
UII.   HIGHWAYS  .. ... .  .....       ... ..... .......* ..a ...............    6
A.   The Network    ......................................               6
B.   Traffic Characteristics and Growth ............                     7
C.   Administration  ...................................                7
D.    Financing  . . . .... ............... ... .                       8
E .   Planning anDd Engineering  . ....................                  9
F.   Construction .... ...... 0.... .., ,  ..... 0.........   10
G.  Maintenance ..............  10
IV.   THE PROJECT ............... *..*..11
A.   Second Plan DGH  Development Program  ....              ..........  11
B .   Description ............................    13
C.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component   ....   19
D .   Financing .       .......................................   21
E.   Implementation and Procurement ...................   22
F.   Disbursements           ........................ ............   23
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION .......             ............................   24
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ...............................  ... ..    28
This report has been prepared by Messrs. R. Alexander (Engineer) and
T. Neuner (Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Details of Transport Modes Other than Highways
2.   Details of DGH Highway Development Program in Second Five-Year Plan
3.   Description and Evaluation of First 550 Km of Road
Improvements
4.   Consultant Services Required for the Project
5.   List of Equipment to be Procured
6.   Economic Costs and Beneficiaries of the Project
TABLES
1.   The Public Highway Network (December 31, 1971)
2.   The Public Highway Network - Type of Surface (December 31, 1971)
3.   The Public Highway Network - Axle Load-Carrying Capacity
(December 31, 1971)
4.   Geometric Design Standards
5.   Vehicles Registered, 1961-1974
6.   Motor Vehicle Registrations - Geographic Distribution, 1973
7.   Budget Summary of Directorate General of Highways
8.   Project Implementation Schedule
9.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
CHART
IBRD - 15003(R) - Organization of the Central and Provincial
Works Organizations in Relation to Highway
Administration
MAPS
1.   IBRD - 11746  - Sumatera
2.   IBRD - 11747  - Java and Bali
3.   IBRD - 10399R - North Sulawesi



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMEARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The economy of Indonesia grew at an annual rate of over 7% during
the First Five-Year Plan period (April 1969 - March 1974) and, with the
favorable effects of the rise in oil prices, is expected to continue on an
upward trend through the Second Five-Year Plan (April 1974 - March 1979) and
beyond. However, bottlenecks in transport and other infrastructure will
obstruct continued economic growth unless the pace of investment in these
facilities is stepped up rapidly. Accordingly, the Government determined
that some of the large additional revenues accruing to it from the oil sector
and the increased debt servicing capacity which they imply should go initially
to improvement of transport and other infrastructure. This policy also reflects
the economy's relatively larger absorptive capacity over the near term for
infrastructure investments.
ii.       The Government's development plan for roads in the First Five-
Year Plan stressed the rehabilitation (heavy deferred maintenance) of roughly
8,000 km of roads, the improvement of highway maintenance, the construction
of some new roads and the strengthening of the capacity of various highway
authorities (national, provincial, and local) to plan and supervise road
investments. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Bank
Group and other lenders have assisted the Government in providing or
arranging for technical and financial assistance to help meet these targets
and also to help prepare future investment programs, including the identi-
fication of measures needed to execute them.
iii.      The rehabilitation works were successfully accomplished and positive
steps were taken to improve road maintenance which allowed traffic -to move
again on important road links that had become largely impassable due to
neglect in the previous decade. Sustained high economic growth with parallel
increases in traffic demand have created a new generation of road problems
in that the rehabilitation works, which were an efficient use of scarce re-
sources when traffic levels were modest, are now too costly a method to sa-
tisfy the higher traffic levels. The extent of the road network is generally
adequate; however, a large number of important roads now require major im-
provements, involving widening, strengthening of pavements and shoulders, and
bridge work. Construction of new multi-lane roads are also needed to cope
with traffic in and around main cities, particularly Jakarta. The road in-
vestments in the Second Five-Year Plan focus major attention on these changed
needs and on providing expatriate experts to augment the scarce staff re-
sources now available in Indonesia to plan, manage and execute the Plan's road
targets.
iv.       From 1968 onwards, the Bank Group has been financing investments
in the transport sector through credits and loans totalling US$201.5 million;
including three road projects totalling US$77 million; an inter-island ship-
ping project of US$8.5 million; a railway project of US$48 million; and a



- ii -
fertilizer distribution project of US$68 million. In addition, four techni-
cal assistance credits, totalling US$15 million provided experts for, among
other things, planning in the transport sector.
V.        While the Government will accelerate investments in all modes
of transport, the largest sums are intended for the ports and shipping and
for highways which together account for most of Indonesia's transport ser-
vices. The Bank Group proposes to assist initially through (a) projects for
ports and shipping (one for the expansion of Indonesia's principal general
cargo port at Jakarta and the other for inter-island shipping, both of which
are currently under appraisal) and (b) the proposed Fourth Highway Project.
The Bank's highway project primarily supports the Government's Betterment
Program which constitutes the largest part of the Directorate General of
Highways (DGH) Highway Development Program and which because of its complex
preparation and execution problem, is most suitable for assistance on a large
scale by the Bank. The Betterment Program covers about 13,000 km of high
priority links, or somewhat over one-third of the national and provincial
road network. It is estimated that substantial improvement works will be
required on links aggregating roughly 10,000 km and up to 5,000 km of
improvements are targeted for completion by the end of the Second Plan
period.
vi.       The Government's proposal for development of national and provin-
cial roads represents a large-scale, long-term commitment to improving the
country's infrastructure system. It not only will upgrade a substantial part
of Indonesia's roads and bridges but also includes the initial steps to de-
centralize road maintenance and administration, and thereby provide the essen-
tial prerequisite for improving the feeder road system, a priority item in
subsequent highway development programs. By its emphasis on the development
of local consultants and contractors, the Goverment's proposal will also
strengthen Indonesia's overall capacity for civil engineering works. As the
Highway Development Program is very ambitious and represents a quantum in-
crease in the volume of Indonesia's highway construction, the Government will
make extensive use, in the initial stages of the Program, of external tech-
nical capacities but it is embarked concurrently on a broad-scale effort to
develop indigenous resources through training, technical assistance and other
means. The proposed loan not only provides funds for a substantial part of
the physical works included in the Government's Plan, but also supports a
broad range of institutional improvements designed to make Indonesia self-
sufficient in highway operations as soon as possible.
vii.      The Fourth Highway Project will include construction on 1,100 km
of national and provincial highways in two packages of 550 km each and con-
sulting services to help supervise this construction; services for screening
and feasibility studies of an additional 7,000 km of betterment works,
including detailed design for 4,100 km selected therefrom and for detailed
engineering of a 70 km multi-lane highway near Jakarta for possible con-
struction financing by Saudi Arabia under Bank administration; services in
support of selected activities of the highway authorities for the management
of the Government's highway development program, including a study of vehicle
weights and dimensions and road user charges. The first package of civil



- iii -
works is for schemes for which feasibility studies and detailed engineering
are in hand. The civil works in the second package are to be approved by the
Bank on or before December 31, 1976 on the basis of technical-economic
documentation which is being prepared similar to that used for the first
package.
viii.     Civil works will all be carried out by contracts awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement. Domestic construction contractors and eligible
joint venturers will participate in the tendering on the basis of a 7-1/2%
preference; they are expected to win some contracts and participate as
subcontractors in other cases; they will also benefit from special measures
which will be formulated under the project to strengthen their technical
and managerial capacities. However, the domestic contracting industry is
still small and the Government expects that foreign firms will provide much
of the capacity required for the initial phases of the Highway Development
Plan. The consulting services to be financed under the project will be
carried out by experienced foreign firms mainly in joint venture with
domestic firms. The estimated total cost of the project is US$234 million
with a foreign exchange cost of US$150 million or 64%. The loan of US$130
million will finance 60% of all costs proposed for financing by the Bank
(such costs estimated at about US$217 million) and also represents 88% of
the foreign exchange component of such costs. Highway construction works
under the project with an estimated aggregate value of US$59 million have
been issued to tender and bids for about US$28 million of these were opened
in January and February 1976 and are under evaluation; proposals for all
consultancies with an estimated total value of about US$25 million have
been requested and of these, proposals valued at about US$18 million were
received and are under review. The cost estimates for the project are
based on the costs resulting from the aforementioned bids and proposals.
No contracts for construction or services will be signed before April 1976.
ix.       The construction works in the project are aimed at lowering
vehicle operating and road rehabilitation costs by strengthening and, in
appropriate cases, widening roads (including bridges) which are now in-
adequate to cope with current and near-term traffic. Directly measureable
development benefits will be small for the first package but may be of some
importance for several roads in the second package. The economic rate of
return for individual road sections in the first package ranges from 12 to
29% and the average return is 19%; similar rates of return are expected for
the second package. The two packages together account for about 90% of total
project cost.
x.        The provision for feasibility and detailed engineering studies will
help the Government to prepare its highway development schemes (for ithe current
Second Plan and the subsequent one) and provide a basis for future f'inancing
of road investments by the Bank and similar institutions, and also bilateral
lenders. The remaining consulting services will assist the highway authori-
ties to better prepare, manage and execute their current and future highway
development and maintenance programs.



- iv -
Xi.       The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$130
million to the Republic of Indonesia for a term of 25 years, including a
five-year period of grace.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has asked the Bank for a loan to
help finance a Fourth Highway Project comprising: (a) construction and
supervision of about 1,100 km of road improvements in various parts of the
the country; and (b) consulting services: to assist in screening and feasi-
bility studies of about 7,000 km of road improvements throughout Indonesia
and detailed design of about 4,100 km of such improvements in Sumatera, Java
and Bali; to prepare detailed designs for a 70 km multi-lane highway; to
assist in studying and solving management and organizational problems of
Indonesia's highway authorities; to study and make recommendations concerning
vehicle dimension and weight regulations and road user charges. The project
will be executed by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH), the national
highway authority, which is a part of the Ministry of Public Works and Power
(1MPW) .
1.02      The proposed loan constitutes a major contribution to the greatly
expanded highway improvement program which the Government has made one of
its principal policy objectives. This program encompasses not only the
construction of better roads and bridges but strengthening and expansion of
public and private institutions concerned with planning, building and main-
taining Indonesia's roads. The project will help to remove transportation
bottlenecks to the rapid expansion of Indonesia's economy and to further
the technical capacities of the country's civil engineering industries.
1.03      The project has been developed from the DGH Development Program
which is part of Indonesia's Second Five-Year Plan and whose most important
component is a Betterment Program covering a large number of high priority
road links throughout the country. As the DGH Development Program requires
a major expansion of road design and construction capacity, the Bank has
worked closely with the Government to identify the key constraints to its
execution, and the Government has formulated specific actions to be under-
taken in the critical inception period, including the use of expatriate and
domestic consultants on a substantial scale to assist in engineering and
managerial tasks.
1.04      The Bank Group's previous assistance in financing the transport
sector has involved three highway projects: Credits 154-IND for US$28
million in 1969; 260-IND for US$35 million in 1971; and 388-IND for US$14
million in 1973. In addition, the Bank Group has provided assistance to the
transport sector through an inter-island shipping project, Credit 318-IND,
v for US$8.5 million in 1972; a railway project, Loan 1005-IND, for US$48 mil-
lion in 1974; and a fertilizer distribution project, Loan 1139-IND, for
US$68 million in 1975; as well as technical expertise financed under the



technical assistance credits to Indonesia. Performance on the ongoing proj-
ects has generally been satisfactory. A second inter-island shipping proj-
ect is under negotiation and a port project to expand the country's principal
general cargo port (Jakarta) is currently under appraisal.
1.05      The First Highway Project provided for the procurement of equip-
ment, materials and consulting services for a four-year program to rehabili-
tate 3,000 km of high priority roads in 5 of the 26 provinces, to improve
routine and periodic maintenance and workshop facilities in 20 provinces,
and to undertake experimental programs in 3 provinces for all aspects
of highway work. This project was largely based on the findings of a large
technical assistance consultancy financed by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP), with the Bank acting as executing agency. The road works
were successfully completed within the cost estimates and approximately on
schedule, and permitted traffic to move again on roads which had been
virtually impassable due to neglect during the economic stagnation in the
late fifties and the sixties; a good start was also made in putting highway
maintenance on a sounder footing. The Closing Date was extended to the end
of 1975 to permit placement of orders for remaining equipment and materials.
1.06      The Second and Third Highway Projects financed reconstruction of
road links located on the islands of Sumatera and Sulawesi respectively (Maps)
and were largely based on the findings of the UNDP consultancy. Execution of
construction in the Second and Third Projects is proceeding satisfactorily
after taking into account initial delays in contractor mobilization due to
remoteness of construction areas, unusually long rainy seasons and severe
land slides. Project costs have exceeded original estimates due mainly to
sharp worldwide price increases in the 1973-75 period; the higher costs are
being met by the Government.
1.07      The Second and Third Projects included feasibility and detailed
engineering studies of key roads in Simatera, Java, Sulawesi and Bali.  These
studies form the basis for the construction element of the proposed Fourth
Project. The Second and Third Projects also contributed to significant
institutional improvements related to highways which were accomplished in
the First Five-Year Plan.
1.08      The proposed Fourth Project extends and expands the study and
institutional strengthening efforts of previous projects. A future Fifth
Project will be based on feasibility and engineering studies to be completed
under the Second and Fourth Projects. The need for improving highway plan-
ning was identified with the help of the original UNDP consultancy; further
improvements in planning processes are being made with the assistance of the
present UNDP Highway Planning Advisory Team (HPAT) (paras 3.12 and 4.20), and
various consultancies to be financed under the Fourth Highway Project
(paras 4.11-4.19, Annex 4). Staff training activities which were begun
under the Third Project will be further assisted by experts financed under
the proposed loan to assist in managing DGH's training programs (paras 4.17,
4.18).



- 3 -
1.09      This report is based on information provided by the Government
and its consultants, and on the findings of the April/May 1975 appraisal
mission, composed of Messrs. R. Alexander (Engineer) and T. Neuner (Economist)
who worked closely with Messrs. A. van Dijck and M. Sapir of the Bank's
Resident Staff in Indonesia. Processing of the project following appraisal
was delayed by the need for additional information which was provided by DGH
officials during their visits to Washington in June and in August 1975 and
by correspondence, and by the postponement of loan negotiations from January
to February 1976 at the request of the Government to permit the review of
project construction costs in the light of tenders for some project road
sections received in January and February 1976.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      The Indonesian archipelago comprises thousands of islands spread
out along 5,000 km of the equator in a band about 2,000 km wide. However,
five large land masses (the islands of Kalimantan, Sumatera, Irian Jaya,
Sulawesi and Java) account for more than 92% of the country's total land
area of 1.9 million km2. About two-thirds of Indonesia's population of 130
million (1975 estimate) is concentrated on the island of Java which covers
only 7% of the total land area and is one of the most densely populated
regions in the world (625 persons per km2). The average population density
in the rest of Indonesia is much lower than Java but settlements are not
spread evenly and tend to occur in pockets with favorable agricultural
conditions.
2.02      Agriculture is the most important economic activity, predominantly
still in subsistence farming but partly in growing of food crops for domestic
sale and of export crops such as rubber, palm oil and copra. The largest
extractive activity is the production of oil (505 million barrels in 1974)
which contributed about 65% of the value of total exports in 1974. Indonesia
also produces significant amounts of tin, bauxite, nickel and copper. In-
dustry remains relatively undeveloped with employment concentrated in
consumer goods plants such as food processing and textiles. Fertilizer
and cement are the largest primary industries.
2.03      GDP was the equivalent of about US$16.3 billion in 1973 or about
US$130 per capita. The economy grew during the First Five-Year Plan and in
1975 at over 7% p.a. The Second Five-Year Plan projects continuation of the
growth pattern from the previous plan period but with greater emphasis on
industrial expansion, particularly in primary industry; transport is projected
to grow at the rate of 10% p.a. With the increase in oil prices, substantial
new resources have become available to the Government and have already been
committed to expanding investment. Indonesia's export earnings are expected
to rise further from US$4.4 billion in 1974 to US$11.4 billion in 1980 and
to provide the necessary foreign exchange and savings for additional increases



- 4 -
in the rate of investment. The Government is also stressing the balanced
development of all regions in Indonesia and the opening up of remote areas.
All the foregoing trends will place large new demands on the transport system
and may well require transport to be expanded in excess of the projected
10% p.a. if the demands are to be met.
B.   Transport Modes
General
2.04      Indonesia makes significant use of all modes of transport.  Java
has extensive road and rail systems which account for 33 and 70% of the total
networks in the country. Roads provide the basic links within the individual
islands outside Java though the density of these networks is much lower than
in Java. There are a few railway lines in Sumatera. Where rivers are navi-
gable (South Sumatera, Kalimantan, Irian Jaya), they carry significant volumes
of traffic. There are also about 450 km of petroleum pipelines in operation
or under construction in South-Central Java and a few gas pipelines in Java
and Sumatera. Freight movements among the islands are made by marine transport
which also carries some traffic between points on the same islands.  Air trans-
port is developing rapidly but is almost exclusively for passenger use, both
inter- and intra-island. The largest single item in freight transport,
measured in m ton-km, is the movement of petroleum and its products by
domestic shipping; without this traffic, toad and sea traffic are roughly
equal and each about three times rail traffic. Road transport accounts for
more than half of total passenger-km, with the railway contributing the second
largest share.
2.05      The contribution of transport to GDP virtually stagnated for most
of the 1960's but grew at nearly 11% p.a. in constant prices over the First
Plan period as the economy recovered. The Government's policy in the First
Five-Year Plan emphasized rehabilitation of transport facilities and the
condition of infrastructure and the transport fleet has improved markedly
as a result. In addition, some fleet expansion took place, particularly in
road transport and aviation. The primary aim of the Government's Second
Five-Year Plan in the transport sector is to create substantial capacity
increases both by additional investment and by improved productivity, through
completion of unfinished rehabilitation work and further strengthening of
sectoral institutions and organizations.
2.06      As a result of its enlarged oil income, the Government has expanded
expenditures under the 1974-75 and 1975-76 development budgets over the levels
projected in the Second Plan document. The allocation for transport in the
1975-76 budget is more than 50% over the original 1974-75 budget and absorbed
more than one-third of the increase in total development expenditures. Al-
though some transport development expenditures were increased more rapidly
than others, the Government has not indicated a shift in its sectoral strategy.
Future budgets are expected to give more emphasis to social sectors such
as education; transport investments are also expected to rise but at a more
modest rate. Over the Second Plan period, investments for transport in the



-5-
public sector (assuming continuation of development expenditures at increased
levels) and by the private sector are estimated at about Rp 1,800 billion
(US$4.3 billion, in 1973 prices) roughly 17% of total investments; about 56%
of this will flow through the public sector under various central and local
governments' development budgets with the remainder being financed privately,
particularly for the purchase of road and other transport vehicles. While
investment projections were based on very limited data, particularly regarding
local government expenditures, the proportion devoted to transport falls within
the range most frequently observed in similar economies.
Particular Modes
2.07      Details on the highway mode are given in Chapter III and on the
other modes in Annex 1.
C.   Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination
2.08      Responsibility for planning and policy formulation in the transport
sector is divided at the national level between two ministries, HPW for roads,
and the Ministry of Transport, Comunications and Tourism (MOC) for other
modes. Investment proposals are formulated at the modal level in these
ministries and then submitted by them to the National Planning Council
(BAPPENAS) for review and approval. PrQject proposals normally include cost-
benefit analyses but these analyses are frequently made by consultants and
thus have not represented an overwhelming burden on the limited number of
Indonesian transport specialists. Nevettheless, as the number and complexity
of analyses are increasing, the Government intends to employ one or two ex-
patriate experts financed under an IDA Technical Assistance Credit (275-IND)
to help the MOC in reviewing investment proposals from its constituent agencies.
2.09      Modal planning is hindered by the lack of trained staff and by the
limited and irregular flow of data. Nevertheless, planning of highways in
DGH has been greatly strengthened in recent years with the assistance of
the HPAT and will receive significant assistance under the proposed loan.
Railway planning will be improved under the current Bank loan for the rail-
ways, and national ports planning, which is urgently needed to coordinate
the ports with each other and with shipping and land transport, will be given
special attention in the proposed Bank loan for the port of Jakarta (para
1.04 and Annex 1).  The Government has initiated training programs for trans-
port planning staff and is pursuing several means to improve the availability
of information, among them the provision of another expert financed under
Technical Assistance Credit 275-IND to work with MOC on data problems. The
training of Indonesian staff as well as improvements in modal planning and
data operation will take time and it will be some years before these essen-
tial prerequisites to a national transport plan and to improved transport
coordination will become available.
2.10      The Government wields considerable influence over the operation
of the transport system, not only through provision of infrastructure and
ownership of important transport enterprises in all modes but also through
rate setting and other regulatory activities. While it has not formulated
an explicit transport policy, the Government has identified areas requiring



- 6 -
special attention, particularly financial objectives and control of public
sector transport firms and pricing policy. At present, accounting systems
vary widely among sectoral enterprises and means are not available to
compare financial performance or to set standards. The Government's deci-
sion on rates must frequently be made without analysis of costs, demand
factors or the effect on competing modes. Two experts, financed from
Technical Assistance Credit 275-IND, are now advising MOC in these areas
with the aim of making the Government's activities more consistent and
effective, improving the return on its investments in the sector and ensuring
that it considers all relevant economic factors in transport pricing. Im-
proved information is also considered vital to better sector management
and will be aided by the measures described in para 2.09.
2.11      The law concerning vehicle weights and dimensions and the level
of user charges are important current issues. While both matters have been
reviewed in connection with previous highway projects for Indonesia, they
should now be reexamined in the light of the Government's large-scale road
Betterment Program, which will permit the use of larger trucks, and of the
sharp rise in world oil prices. The Government has only partly revised
domestic fuel charges to reflect the new world price of oil and a major new
subsidy to the transport sector has thereby resulted; the implicit subsidy
due to underpricing of petroleum in all its uses in the economy has been
estimated to amount to 2.6% of gross national income (Basic Economic Report -
Indonesia, Development Prospects and Needs (Report No. 708-IND) dated
April 15, 1975). The proposed project provides for a study of these issues,
and the Government agreed that it would take such actions as appropriate
to revise its vehicle weight and dimension policy and its user charges after
the study has been completed.
III. HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      The extra-urban public highway network totals 86,264 km.  The roads
are classified as "national" (10,628 km), "provincial" (24,466 km) and "dis-
trict" (kabupaten) (51,170 km), indicating their relative importance and
the basis for defining administrative, financial and executive procedures
associated with construction and maintenance. In addition to the public
highway network, agricultural estates and oil companies construct and main-
tain their own roads. Tables 1 and 2 show the public network by classifica-
tion and by surface type.
3.02      For vehicle weight control purposes, the system is presently
divided into six classes, based on maximum permissible axle load, ranging
from 1.5 to 7 m tons (Table 3). However, geometrical and structural design
standards recognize five classes of roads in accordance with traffic volumes
and specify an 8 m ton single axle load for pavement design and a standard



similar to that used in Britain for structures (Table 4). The design
standards are generally satisfactory and are being applied in the design of
new roads or major improvements. The study of vehicle weights and dimensions
(para 2.11) should provide a basis for reconciling the classifications for
weight control purposes and for design standards.
B.   Traffic Characteristics and Growth
3.03      In 1974, registered four-wheel vehicles (excluding military
and diplomatic) totalled about 535,000 of which 338,000 were cars,
166,000 trucks and 31,000 buses (Tables 5 and 6). The number of vehicles
actually in use is considerably less; on the basis of 1972 inspection records,
only about two-thirds of trucks and buses registered were then on the road.
Vehicle registrations have expanded rapidly by nearly 70% over the last five
years. There has also been a significant reduction of the average vehicle
age which dropped from 12.1 years in 1969 to 10.6 years in 1972. Most trucks
still have only two axles but recent additions to the fleet typically have
somewhat higher carrying capacities than the older vehicles (previously about
3.5 m tons, now 4 to 5 m tons).
3.04      Systematic traffic counting was resumed in 1970 after a lapse
of about 10 years; in addition, periodic origin and destination surveys
are made on the principal routes. Results from the first three years'
counts indicate significant traffic growth on many road sections. While
the basic procedures for obtaining traffic information are satisfactory,
refinements are desirable to increase the accuracy of the data and the
timeliness of their compilation. The HPAT (para 2.09) has assisted the
Government in formulating an improvement program which includes the use
of automatic counting machines on high density routes in Java and Bali
and additional studies on truck loadings and vehicle speeds on selected
roads. The project includes the purchase of counting machines and related
equipment (para 4.21) which will be financed entirely by the Government.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed its program for improving
the collection and use of traffic information.
C.  Administration
3.05      Administration of the public highway network follows the three
classification tiers. The Central Government, through DGH, is responsible
for national highways; provincial administrations are responsible for pro-
vincial highways, and district administrations for district roads. DGH is
part of MPW which includes the Directorates General of Water Resources, and
of Housing and Building among others (Chart). This aggregation of functions
within MPW is repeated at the provincial level where provincial public works
departments (DPUPs) are responsible for highways, irrigation and buildings.
3.06      In practice, the administrative system is not as clearly defined
and there are many interlocking relationships among the levels of adminis-
tration.  DGH is a relatively small organization of less than 2,000 permanent
employees of all types. However, it is the largest pool of skilled highway



-8-
technicians in the country and has been responsible for the design and
construction of virtually all major roads in the country. The number of
employees of the provinces and districts working on highways is not known
exactly but certainly runs into several tens of thousands. The technical
capacity of DPUPs varies widely; however, even the best DPUPs have limited
highway design capacity (though some design their own bridges) and the major
activity of the provinces on highways still is maintenance and rehabilita-
tion, which is heavy deferred maintenance. Funds are provided by DGE and
by other agencies of the Central Government (paras 3.09 and 3.15) to the
DPUPs and by the latter to the districts. Technical assistance is provided
to the DPUPs by various DGH directorates (Chart).
3.07      DGH has been the major focus of technical assistance on highways
by the Bank Group and other external agencies over the past decade. Among
other things the Third Highway Project included a major training component
which was directed largely at maintenance operations and resulted in the
establishment of a comprehensive training system for Indonesia's highway
authorities and which is to be further implemented under the proposed Fourth
Highway Project. DGH has been substantially strengthened as a result of
these efforts (paras 3.11-3.17) and has become the Government's main policy
setting organization in the highway subsector. Further improvements in
management and control of DGH corresponding to its enlarged policy role and
designed in relation to its greatly increased volume of highway works in
Indonesia, are required in such areas as budget formulation and control and
construction program management.
3.08      With the enlarged size and complexity of Indonesia's highway
program, the Government proposes to decentralize such DGH functions as execution
of construction and design of projects to lower levels of administration and
to upgrade their technical capacities to this end. A major step in this di-
rection is DGH's recent establishment of new DGH regional betterment offices,
initially to deal with the day-to-day design and supervision of betterment
works located in the provinces covered by each office and eventually to form
the nuclei of provincial engineering offices. The arrangements for these
new offices, four in Java and Sumatera, assisted by consultants to be financed
under the proposed project (para 4.10 and Chart) are discussed in para 4.09.
Additionally, a new career system is being put into effect to provide for the
interchange of skilled personnel between DGH and DPUPs. The first major task
of DGE will be to make a survey of all DPUPs activities on highways to eva-
luate their individual strengths and weaknesses and to formulate an improvement
program for each province. The survey will be assisted by management con-
sultants which are to be financed under the proposed loan (para 4.18). After
completion and analysis of the survey, the Government plans to make a similar
review of highway operations in the districts.
D.   Financing
3.09      Complete figures are not available on total expenditures for
Indonesia's public highway network outside of DGH's own budget. The DGH
budget is only a portion of the Central Government's own expenditures on high-
ways. The Government also transfers large sums to the lower tiers of adminis-
tration either specifically earmarked for highways (e.g., payments to provinces



- 9-
for highway maintenance) or for programs which include a large number of
highway works (e.g., kabupaten public works schemes such as under the so-
called INPRES program). In addition, the provinces and districts finance
from their own resources not only many routine maintenance costs, but also
some new road construction or improvements under their development budgets.
The survey of DPUPs mentioned in para 3.08 will also include a compilation of
budgetary data for highway activities by the provinces. The proposed study
of highway user charges (para 2.11) will obtain preliminary information on
highway expenditures at the district level but comprehensive data will have
to await the proposed survey of district highway organizations.
3.10      DGH has two budgets:  routine, which covers the salaries of its
permanent employees and also includes a small sum for road maintenance,
and development, which not only funds major construction projects but large
expenditures for rehabilitation and maintenance also. Table 7 shows DGH
budgets over the First Five-Year Plan and for 1974-75. The rise from Rp 10.7
to 26.9 billion (US$260 to 650 million at the current exchange rate) in the
First Plan period represents an increase of about 50% in real resources when
allowance is made for the intervening inflation. Actual expenditures ran
at roughly 80% of the budgeted amounts in that period. The very large increase
in 1974-75 resulted from more than doubling the DGH development budget after
the oil price increase but also reflects Indonesia's very rapid inflation in
1974 (40Z in the consumer price index).
E.   Planning and kngineering
3.11      Indonesia suffers a shortage of graduate civil engineers (only
about 120 are produced per year for both public and private sectors) which
is felt at all levels of its highway administration. DGH has sought to
overcome this problem in its planning and design work by extensive employ-
ment of para-professional personnel (e.g., advanced university students)
to supplement its own permanent staff, by use of electronic computers, by
retaining foreign design consultants and more recently by initial measures
to build up the capacity of the domestic consulting industry which at pre-
sent is limited to only about four firms capable of undertaking a complete
design assignment but only for small projects, and a number of small firms
specialized in surveying and soil testing. As a result, DGH has been able
gradually to expand and improve its highway planning effort and t-o increase
the volume of designs available for construction.
3.12      The main organization for highway planning is DGH's Directorate
of Planning which collects data on traffic and existing road facilities,
prepares general highway plans and selects and evaluates individual con-
struction projects. The Directorate has just completed a nationwide survey
of regional development potentials, traffic flows and consequent transpor-
tation needs, particularly on the national and provincial road networks which
was the basis for formulating the Betterment Program of high priority road
links (para 1.03); this was organized and carried out with the assistance of
the HPAT. It is presently compiling a detailed road and bridge inventory of
national and provincial roads; and it will shortly commence preparation of



10 -
rolling five-year highway programs. In addition, DGH will begin to prepare
a 20-year plan for the highway network (including important feeder roads, a
priority item in future plans) in selected pilot areas of the country; sub-
sequently, all areas of the country will be covered. Mention has already
been made of the program to improve traffic information (para 3.04). While
DGH's planning effort is ambitious, it is well conceived and should produce
satisfactory results with the continued help of the HPAT (paras 1.08, 2.09
and 3.04) which has been working with the Directorate over the past three
years. The HPAT services involve about 150 man-months of expatriate services
of varying duration over a three-year period (engineers, economists, traffic
specialists).
3.13      DGH's design work is also the responsibility of the Directorate
of Planning. Design offices are located in Bandung which provides access
to the resources of the highly regarded Institute of Technology there. With
about 300 employees of whom less than half are permanent, the design office
has demonstrated its capacity to produce acceptable designs for a broad
range of highway and bridge construction and to supervise a large volume
of design work by consultants as well. The Directorate also has responsibil-
ity for developing the engineering capabilities of the DPUP and the highway
consulting industry; DGH will carry out a study of the consulting industry,
assisted by consultants to be financed under the proposed project (para 4.17),
and establish measures for mobilizing the industry. The Directorate will
need to make large-scale use of expatriate consultants over the next several
years but will be able to rely increasingly on domestic consultants, as they
will be working with expatriate firms in the preparation and execution of the
Betterment Program.
F.   Construction
3.14      Responsibility for highway construction lies with the Directorate
of Construction and is executed under a variety of arrangements. Most
typical for minor construction is the use of small contractors who supply
labor and local materials such as stone, but use equipment and manufactured
materials supplied by the Government. Indonesia has only a few contracting
firms which can execute major road works and therefore mainly uses foreign
contractors on such jobs, as was the case in the Second and Third Highway
Projects. Some provinces also have force account construction units for
road building. DGH will carry out a study, assisted by consultants to be
financed under the proposed loan, of the measures needed to expand the use
of local contractors in the Second Plan DGH Development Program (para 4.17).
Expansion will be designed, however, to meet the estimated long-term road
construction needs of the country to avoid developing capacity which would
be unused after the surge of the Betterment Program has taken place.
G.   Maintenance
3.15      Maintenance of the national and provincial roads is carried out by
the DPUPs, partly with provincial funds and partly with funds supplied by
the national Government, through the budgets of DGH (para 3.06), and the
Directorates General of Administration and Regional Autonomy in the Ministry



- 11 -
of Interior. Complete data are not available on total expenditures for
maintenance outside of DGH's own budget. The lack of data is pronounced
for the individual provinces and one of the main purposes of the survey of
DPUPs (para 3.08) will be to obtain information on the extent and quality
of the maintenance effort and to develop action programs as appropriate for
each province to strengthen the organization, admininstration and execution
of maintenance consistent with highway development under the Second and
future Five-Year Plans (para 4.17).
3.16      It is clear, nonetheless, that maintenance operations are exten-
sive and that substantial improvements were achieved in the condition of
the primary network over the First Plan period, initiated by the First
Highway Project (para 1.05) and continued by DGH. In 1973, 95% of the pri-
mary network was open to traffic as against 70% five years earlier, and 60%
of the passable roads were judged in good or fair condition in 1973 compared
with about 15% in 1968. In view of the budgetary uncertainties referred
to above, no precise allocation of maintenance funds per km of road is
available. However, DGH estimates that about US$1,000 equivalent p.a. is
spent under various budgets on maintenance of the national roads and US$600
equivalent p.a. on provincial roads. Rehabilitation, which is heavy deferred
maintenance, is estimated to represent an expenditure of about US$10,000 per
km on some 2-3,000 km of national and provincial roads rehabilitated each
year. Additional sums, believed to be significant, are also spent at the
local level but their magnitude is not known exactly. Maintenance activities
have also benefitted from the establishment of a training system under the
Third Highway Project (para 3.07).  While the institutional framework for
training now has been provided, further efforts are planned by DGH to spread
training at lower levels of administration. These efforts will be assisted
by advice from management consultants under the proposed loan and by equipment
to be purchased under the project from the Government's own funds.
3.17      The present level of budget allocations for maintenance and re-
habilitation appears adequate at the moment but the required allocation for
each is likely to change significantly as execution of the Highway Betterment
Program becomes well advanced. Amounts for rehabilitation will decrease but
requirements for routine and periodic maintenance will increase to reflect the
higher standard of road and growing traffic levels to be served. DGH plans
to continue improvements in maintenance through the measures mentioned in
paras 3.15 and 4.17, and intends to increase allocations for this purpose as
required. Additionally, the Government will prepare and implement action
programs to strengthen maintenance operations of the DPUPs, including special
programs for each of the roads to be improved in the proposed project (paras
4.17 and 4.28).
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Second Plan DGH Development Program
4.01      The Program represents a major shift of attention from deferred main-
tenance and rehabilitation, which was emphasized during the First Five-Year



- 12 -
Plan, to more permanent repair and upgrading of roads and bridges. The
Betterment Program includes 13,000 km of highway links selected on the basis
of a nationwide survey of traffic, condition of road and regional development
potential (para 3.12). However, it is estimated that substantial improvement
works will be required on links aggregating about 10,000 km. About 5,000 km
of improvements are targeted for completion by the end of the Second Plan;
another 2,900 km are expected to be underway at that time and the remaining
2,100 km will be in the design phase. The proposed project is essentially
the initial phase of the Betterment Program, which in turn represents the
largest single element in the Second Plan DGH Development Program.
4.02      In addition to the Betterment Program, the DGH Development Program
includes substantial amounts for replacing bridges which are on routes not
covered by the Betterment Program and which have collapsed or are in dangerous
condition, and for some major new roads. It also includes allocations for
rehabilitation and maintenance. Details of the DGH Development Program, in-
cluding the Betterment Program, are given in Annex 2. The Government and
the Bank have agreed that the Betterment Program, which accounts for about
40% of total DGH development expenditures in the Second Plan (Table to Annex 2)
and requires complex technical-economic analysis, is particularly appropriate
for Bank financing. The proposed loan (US$130 million equivalent) repre-
sents almost 10% of the total cost of the DGH Second Plan Development Program.
Bridges and major new road construction are intended for bilateral assistance
primarily, while rehabilitation and maintenance will be financed mostly from
local funds.
4.03      The new directions which the Government has adopted for its high-
way operations respond to the rapid increase of traffic in recent years
on the country's main roads and the accelerating growth of the economy.
The approacb adopted by the Government is intended to address the main prob-
lems of the highway subsector: modernizing the main roads and bridges to
cater to the larger vehicles which now are in common use and to increase their
capacity to handle growing traffic; strengthening the principal functions of
the country's highway authorities, particularly highway planning, construction
and maintenance; expanding the capacity of indigenous consultants and con-
tractors to assume increased responsibility for highway works in Indonesia;
and decentralizing highway operations as they increase in scope and complexity
and grow beyond the managerial capacity of a small organization located in the
capital. The Government's approach represents an integrated effort to solve
one of the main problems on the path to its economic development.
4.04      The DGH Second Plan Development Program is ambitious and will
place great demands on DGH and other highway authorities and on the engi-
neering design and construction capacity of the economy. Consultants were
retained by DGH to review the constraints to the accomplishment of its targets;
they determined that these targets could be met provided suitable measures were
taken to mobilize the necessary resources, particularly in manpower. In
addition to large-scale reliance on expatriate contractors and consultants,
DGH is now giving or organizing short-term training courses for Indonesian



- 13 -
project officers and resident engineers, inspectors and technicians and
equipment operators; because of the urgency of this need, training was arranged
immediately by DGH and without Bank financing. DGH also plans to review the
progress of the Program continuously to identify and remove bottlenecks as
they occur and to readjust the Program as required. The project includes a
management consultancy and a monitoring consultancy to DGH (para 4.18) which
will assist in Program implementation and review. Assurances were obtained
from the Government that DGH will undertake a semi-annual review of the
Program's execution and furnish the Bank with the results of the review for
comment. Achievement of the Program's targets will require substantial
further increases in allocations for highways in the Development Budget and
the Government indicated that it was likely such allocations would be available.
In this connection the Government confirmed that if difficulties arose in
providing funds for the Program (other than the Project, for which the Govern-
ment is obligated to provide all necessary funds), it would review the effect
of the shortfall of funds on the Program (Annex 2) and inform the Bank. The
Government thus has made reasonable provision for the orderly execution of
the DGH Program and for adjustments in that Program as required. The fore-
going reviews will also ensure that implementation of the proposed Bank
project will be coordinated with execution of the overall DGH Program.
4.05      While the project is not, strictly speaking, a highway sector loan,
it does stress many of the features of sector lending (see PRC/C/75-3 dated
June 2, 1975, circulated to the Executive Directors on June 27, 1975), such
as comprehensive institutional development and establishment of general criteria
for deciding on the techno-economic merits of subprojects. The project
concentrates on the most critical issues and constraints and will provide
an initial analysis of these problems, to be followed up by further, more
intensive work in subsequent stages. It provides for preparation of follow-
on Bank projects along similar lines in the future. Nevertheless, it will be
some time before the efforts to strengthen the institutions in the highway
sector bear fruit; when this has been accomplished it would be appropriate
to consider lending on a sector or subsector basis.
B.   Description
4.06      The project comprises the following elements:
(a) About 1,100 km of road construction, including bridge repair
and replacement, and supervision by consultants, of two
packages about 550 km each; the first package has been
identified; feasibility and engineering studies are well
underway from which the second package will be selected
and the roads so selected will be approved by the Bank
after the Executive Directors have approved the loan,
but not later than December 31, 1976 upon submission of
suitable feasibility studies, detailed engineering and
the results of bidding for each section;



- 14 -
(b) screening-feasibility studies 1/ of about 7,000 km of
roads for betterment;
(c) detailed engineering of about 4,1D0 km of roads for
betterment located in Sumatera, Java and Bali selected
from (b) above;
(d) detailed engineering for a 70 km multi-lane highway
from Jakarta to Cikampek on the island of Java;
(e) studies and similar measures to strengthen Indonesia's
highway authorities in selected activities at DGH head-
quarters and at four regional DGH betterment offices
located in Sumatera and Java, and at the provincial level
in Sumatera and Java (including Bali);
(f) studies of vehicle weights and dimensions and road user
charges and highway legislation; and
(g) procurement of equipment to strengthen Indonesia's high-
way authorities in selected activities, in particular
the ongoing DGH training program and the program to
improve traffic data collection and analysis.
The location of the roads to be constructed and identified thus far and
of the Jakarta-Cikampek road is shown on the maps. All the foregoing
items will be assisted by Bank financing except for certain parts of
items (b), (e) and for (g) as noted below.
(a)  Construction of about 1,100 Km of Rad Improveents
4.07      Improvements in the first package are located in Sumatera, Java,
Bali and Sulawesi; and those in the second package will be located on the
islands of Sumatera and Java. Two of the roads of the first package adjoin
construction projects currently under way with financing by the Bank Group
(Map). The improvements which are concentrated on main highways consist pri-
marily of pavement reconstruction or strengthening work with some widening of
carriageways, widening and strengthening of shoulders, and minor adjustments
to vertical and horizontal alignments. In addition, drainage is being
1/   The screening process will provide:  (a) on the basis of a field review
and engineering sufficiency analyses of existing roads, recommendations
on whether or not a road needs improvement and on whether or not more
intensive investigations, that is, full feasibility studies, are war-
ranted in particular cases; (b) criteria for proceeding with detailed
engineering of improvements which are found to be warranted on the
basis of (a); and (c) full feasibility studies for improvements which
will require more intensive investigations (estimated at about 20%
of the roads to be screened).



- 15 -
improved, weak bridges are being replaced or strengthened and narrow bridges
are being widened in some instances. Improvements are being designed gene-
rally to Class II C or III design standards (Table 4 and para 3.02). Further
details describing the individual roads included in the first package are
in Annex 3. As a result of the improvements, the pavement surfaces will no
longer be subject to rapid deterioriation and the traffic carrying capacity
of the roads will be increased significantly.
4.08      Road improvements for about 2,100 km of roads are being studied
and designed by the consultant, Lyon Associates, Inc. (USA) in association
with the local firm of BIEC (Lyon-BIEC) under financing from Credit 388-
IND. These roads were selected for detailed study on the basis of their
high priority for improvement, determined by traffic volume, condition of
road and general potential for regional development (para 4.01). Feasibility
studies and detailed road and bridge designs have been completed for 550 km
(the first package) out of the 2,100 km and are satisfactory. An additional
1,550 km are being studied and designed by Lyon-BIEC from which a second 550
km package of highest priority roads will be selected for inclusion in the
project.
(b) Consulting Services (see Annex 4 for further details and man-month
estimates):
Supervision of Construction
4.09      DGH proposes that supervision of construction of the road in Sula-
wesi be provided by Pacific Consultants International (Japan), who are already
supervising construction of the adjoining road works being financed under
Credit 388-IND; this would be an acceptable arrangement as the firm is per-
forming satisfactorily. DGH has established four regional offices (para 3.08),
Medan and Palembang in Sumatera for works on that island, and Bandung and
Surabaya in Java, which will be responsible for supervision of works on the
islands of Java and Bali. Each of these offices, which will be assisted by
consultants has as its initial task the supervision of road betterment works
included in this project 1/. The offices are intended to handle road better-
ment works which are beyond the capability or capacity of the DPUPs. As the
capabilities and capacities of the DPUPs to execute such works (construction,
design and feasibility studies) increase, DGH intends to transfer responsi-
bility for these works to the DPUPs; the regional betterment offices there-
fore represent transitional institutions in the devolution of road betterments
to the DPUPs. The initial staffing arrangements for these offices are in-
dicated in Annex 4.
4.10      Consultants for each of the four new regional betterment offices
will be a combination of foreign and local firms which are to provide not
only the supervision services referred to in para 4.09 above but also pre-
liminary engineering and detailed design services described below (paras
1/   The firms will also assist in carrying out preliminary and detailed
engineering work as described in paras 4.12-4.14.



- 16 -
4.12-4.14). This combination of consultancy services is expected to yield
significant economies in the cost of these services. While the capacity
of Indonesia's consulting industry is limited, particularly in highway engi-
neering (para 3.11), resources are available to make substantial contributions
to each of the four new DGH regional betterment offices. DGH has expectations,
which appear reasonable, that an increasing share of the work will be carried
out by Indonesian personnel during later phases of the implementation of the
Betterment Program. The domestic capacity for designing highways should thus
be substantially augmented.
Screening-Feasibility Studies of 7,000 Km of Roads
for Future Road Improvements
4.11      An initial review by DGH assisted by the HPAT identified about
13,000 km of road links as potential candidates for betterment. About
2,100 km of this amount are being studied by DGH assisted by Lyon-BIEC
(para 4.08). Another 3,900 km have been or will be reviewed by DGH itself
or with the assistance of various expatriate consultants not financed under
the proposed loan.
4.12      The remaining 7,000 km are to be subject to screening-feasibility
studies by DGH personnel with the assistance of an expatriate consulting
firm working out of DGH headquarters. Roughly 4,500 km of these 7,000 km
of roads are located in Sumatera, Java and Bali and 2,500 km are elsewhere in
Indonesia. Screening-feasibility studies for the 4,500 km of road improve-
ments in Sumatera, Java and Bali will be based on preliminary engineering
to be carried out by the four new DGH regional betterment offices assisted
by the same consultants as for construction supervision (paras 4.09 and 4.10).
For the 2,500 km of roads elsewhere in Indonesia, preliminary engineering
will be carried out by DGH, possibly assisted by DPUPs and consultants, and
financed entirely outside the proposed loan. This work will ensure that
the screening-feasibility consultant can complete his full tasks.
Detailed Engineering of 4,100 Km of Roads
in Sumatera, Java and Bali
4.13      It is expected that as a result of the activities described in
paras 4.11 and 4.12 detailed engineering will be required for about 10,000
km of roads as follows, of which 4,100 km is to be covered under the proposed
project:
(i) 1,400 km in various parts of Indonesia by DGH
assisted by Lyon-BIEC, based on Lyon-BIEC
feasibility studies;
(ii) 3,000 km in various parts of Indonesia by DGH's central
design office, based on prior studies by DGH itself;
(iii) 1,500 km in islands other than Java, Sumatera and Bali,
by DGH's central design office, based on work of the
screening-feasibility consultant;



- 17 -
(iv) 4,100 km in Java, Sumatera and Bali by the four DGH
regional betterment offices, with the assistance of
the screening-feasibility consultant.
The work under (i) will be completed by the middle of 1976 and the work
under (ii) can and will be handled as part of the normal workload of the
DGH central design offices. The work under (iii) represents the follow-up
for Bank-financed screening-feasibility activities in islands outside Java,
Sumatera and Bali, and the Government will assume responsibility for arranging
this work and will report on progress in connection with the semi-annual re-
view of the overall DGH Development Program (para 4.04).
4.14      The detailed engineering work of the four regional betterment offices
((iv) above) based on screening-feasibility studies of 4,500 km (para 4.12),
will use the design criteria formulated by DGH with the assistance of the
screening-feasibility consultant and also take into account those developed
by Lyon-BIEC. The completed work will be reviewed by DGH and the screening-
feasibility consultant to ensure consistency among the four regional better-
ment offices.
Detailed Engineering of Jakarta-Cikampek Road (70 km)
4.15      Studies have been completed in January 1976 (submitted to the Bank
during negotiations) by Arge Intertrafflc-Lenz-Consult (Federal Republic of
Germany) of the road facilities on the heavily trafficked corridor immediately
east of Jakarta toward Surabaya which suggest the need for multi-lane highway
improvement. The Jakarta-Cikampek segment of about 70 km, a high priority
link, had originally been proposed by the Indonesian Government for financing
by the Bank. Since then, the Government of Saudi Arabia has expressed in-
terest in financing construction of this road, provided the Bank would ap-
praise and administer the project. No final decision has been reached con-
cerning financing by Saudi Arabia. The Government has requested the Bank to
provide financing under the proposed Fourth Highway Project for the detailed
engineering of a multi-lane road as shall be mutually agreed to be technically
and economically feasible. After detailed review of the studies by the Bank,
DGH and the Bank will endeavor to formulate an agreed basis for detailed
engineering and to prepare appropriate terms of reference. Bank financing
for detailed engineering has been requested with the understanding that Saudi
Arabia would be asked to finance the construction of the highway with the
Bank acting on behalf of that Government to carry out project appraisal and
supervision or, if financing cannot be arranged with Saudi Arabia, the Bank
would be asked to include it in a future project.
Support of other Selected Activities of
Indonesian Highway Authorities
4.16      DGH has identified certain critical areas in its own organization
and that of other highway authorities in Indonesia which require strength-
ening if the objectives of Indonesia's greatly expanded effort in the high-
way sector are to be achieved (see Annex 4). Planning will be improved
with the assistance of the HPAT and financed entirely by the UNDP and DGH



- 18 -
(paras 2.09, 3.04 and 3.12); the UNDP advisors are also to assist DGH in
the management and maintenance of its equipsent which is being augmented
by large-scale purchases of road building equipment financed partly by the
Government and from bilateral aid.
4.17      DGH has identified other areas of particular importance in the
management of Indonesia's highway activities such as improvement of the
operations of the DPUPs, particularly highway maintenance, and mobilization
of the consulting and construction industries (paras 3.07, 3.08, 3.13-3.15).
Accordingly, DGH will undertake, with the assistance of management consultants,
studies on these subjects, and the Government agreed that on the basis of
these studies, DGH will prepare and carry out action programs to improve
maintenance operations in each province and that DGH intends to formulate
measures for the development of the consulting and construction industries.
In addition, the Government agreed on an initial DGH action program to im-
prove, with the assistance of management consultants, other aspects of DGH's
organization and management activities such as budget formulation and control,
training program management and construction program management (paras 3.07
and 3.16). These programs will be revised periodically in conjunction with
the semi-annual reviews of the DGH Program (para 4.04).
4.18      DGH will engage an expatriate consulting firm, with a strong
management orientation, to assist in the foregoing tasks. The consultants
will participate: by providing individual experts for particular DGH functions
or officers (e.g., expert for the Director-General on budgetary control and
management, expert for the Director of Construction on construction manage-
ment, experts for the Secretary of DGH on the staff training program), by
participating as part of DGH study teams (most importantly the studies of
DPUPs), and by undertaking studies (e.g., vehicle weights and dimensions and
road user charges - paras 2.11, 4.19). Another expatriate firm will be en-
gaged by DGH to assist a special DGH Monitoring Team (in the Office of the
Secretary) to monitor important DGH activities, particularly the work of all
consultants related to the project. The consultants employed for the DGH
regional betterment offices (para 4.09), in addition to their other duties,
will advise on a limited scale the DPUPs in their regions in assuming addition-
al responsibility for highway construction activities.
Studies of Vehicle Weights and Dimensions,
Road User Charges, and Highway Legislation
4.19      Due to the expansion of the motor vehicle fleet, the likely rapid
improvement of roads and bridges and changes in oil prices, a combined study
of vehicle weights and dimensions and road user charges will be made (paras
2.11 and 4.18). The study will make recommendations of the contributions that
should be made by various classes of vehicles to the construction and main-
tenance of the highway system. An additional study will be undertaken to
review the administration and enforcement of the Indonesian legislation related
to highways, and determine the requirements of and draft a program for the
development of the legal section within DGH.  The management consultant at DGH
headquarters will carry out these studies.



- 19 -
(c) Equipment to Strengthen Selected Functions of
Indonesia's Highway Authorities
4.20      Several DGH programs are being expanded to strengthen the opera-
tions of the highway authorities, including its staff training and traffic
data collection programs (paras 3.04 and 3.16). The expanded training
program will require slide projectors and vehicles for use by Provincial
Training Officers when visiting training sites. The improvement of traffic
data collection will be assisted by training provided by the HPAT. In
addition to manual traffic counts, traffic counting machines are needed
for densely travelled road sections, particularly on the island of Java.
The establishment of 10 counting patrols is proposed by DGH and the HPAT,
which will require, in addition to traffic counters and computation equipment,
a number of vehicles to service the counters in the field. The project
includes the purchase of the equipment which DGH intends to import; the
purchases will be financed entirely by the Government. A list of the equip-
ment above is given in Annex 5.
C. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.21      The total cost of the project, including contingency allowances
and land costs, is estimated at about US$234 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$150 million, or 64%. The base for all project
costs is February 1976. Details are shown below separated into those
elements proposed for Bank financing and those not proposed for Bank financing.
All costs were reviewed and confirmed during negotiations.



- 20 -
7. Foreign
Exchange
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total    Component
(Rp Billion) T           (US$ Million)
A. Elements Proposed for Bank Financing
I. Road Construction, Including Bridges
(a) First Package of about 550 km
(i) Padang-Sawahtambang (80 km, Sumatera)                                    2.4                      5.7
(ii) Tebingtlnggi-Rantauprapat (210 Ica, Sumatera)                           12.9                     31.0
(iii) Denpasar-Gilimanuk (122 km, Bali)                                        5.3                     12.8
(iv) Kotamobagu-Inobonto (37 km, Sulawesi)                                    1.4                      3.4
(v) Cileyuni-Nagreg (22 km, Java)                                            1.6                      3.8
(vi) Probolinggo-Lumajang (43 km, Java)                                       1.4                      3.5
(vii) Jember-Bondowoso (33 km, Java)                                           1.2                      2.9
Subtotal                                                  7.9    18.3  26.2      18.9   44.1   63.0          70*
(b)  Second Package of about 550 km                               7.9    18.3  26.2       18.9   44.1   63.0          70**
Total I                                                  15.8    36.6  52.4      37.8   88.2  126.0           70
II. Services in Support of Selected Activities
of Indonesian Highway Authorities
(a) Supervision of I                                              2.1      2.6   4.7       5.0    6.2   11.2          55
(b) Screening-Feasibility Studies 7,000 km of Roads for
Betterment and Review Final Designs in II(c)                  0.3      0.4   0.7       0.4    1.1    1.5          73
(c) Preliminary Engineering of 4,500 km of Roads from
11(b), followed by Detailed Engineering of 4,100 km
of Roads Selected from the 4,500 km                           1.7      1.9   3.6       4.2    4.5    8.7          52
(d) Detailed Engineering for Jakarta-Cikampek Road (70 km)    0.3          0.6   0.9       0.6    1.5    2.1          70
(e) Management Improvement at DGH HQ and of DPUPs, In-
cluding Monitoring of Consulting Services                     0.3      1.0   1.3       0.8    2.3    3.1          75
(f) Studies of Vehicle Weights and Dimensions, Road
User Charges and Highway Legislation                          0.1      0.1   0.2       0.1    0.3    0.4          70
Total II                                                  4.8     6.6  11.4       11.1   15.9   27.0          59
Total I-II                                               20.6    43.2  63.8       48.9  104.1  153.0          68
Contingencies
Physical (10%) 2/                                                 2.0      4.3   6.3       4.9   10.4   15.3
Price (29%) 3/                                                    6.3    13.9  20.2       15.0   33.5   48.7
Total Contingencies                                       8.3    18.2  26.5       20.1   43.9   64.0          68
Total A (including contingencies)                        28.9    61.4  90.3       69.0  148.0  217.0          68
B.  Elements Not Proposed For Bank Financing
(including contingency allowances)
I.  Preliminary Engineering of 2,500 km
of Roads from A(II)(b) 4/                                         0.3      0.3   0.6       0.8    0.6    1.4          42
11.  Assistance of the UNDP HPAT for Highway Planning 5/                0.1     0.3   0.4        0.2    0.7    0.9          75
III. Equipment in Support of Programs for Staff
Training and Traffic Data Collection and Analysis 4/                -      0.3   0.3         -     0.7    0.7        100
IV.  Land Acquisition for A(I) 4/                                       5.8       -    5.8      14.0     -    14.0           0
Total B                                                   6.2      0.9   7.1      15.0    2.0   17.0          12
Total Cost of Project                                    35.1    62.3  97.4       84.0  150.0  234.0          64
1/  Rp costs which relate to US$ costs may not correspond exactly due to rounding of numbers.
2/  10% on all items.
3/ For construction (including physical contingencies): 12% p.a.
For services: 15% on total (including physical contingencies).
4/  Financed entirely by  the Government.
5/  This relates solely to UNDP HPAT and financing is being prdvided entirely by the UNDP and the Government.
*   Foreign exchange components for individual road sections vary from about 68% to 72% and average 70%.
** It is assumed that the average foreign exchange component for the second package will
be similar to that for the first package.
March 1976



- 21 -
4.22      Cost estimates for construction of the seven road sections
comprising the first 550 km package of roads are based on quantities derived
from completed engineering and on international tenders received for five
of them in January and February 1976. These tenders are in the process
of evaluation and the cost estimates take into account the likely value of
the eventual contract awards. Cost estimates for the second package are
based on the assumption that the average costs per km will correspond roughly
to the first package of 550 km. Cost estimates for various consulting
services are based on a detailed review of man-months and related equipment
requirements, unit costs for similar work or studies in Indonesia and on
proposals received from consultants for a number of the required services;
approximately 2,200 man-months of expatriate services and 7,100 man-months
of Indonesian services are to be provided (Annex 4). The average man-year
cost for a consultant expert, including the costs of related equipment,
materials and travel, is about US$25,000 equivalent for an Indonesian and
US$70,000 for an expatriate. Land acquisition costs were assessed by DGH.
All these estimates are reasonable.
4.23      A contingency allowance of 10% has been added to cover quan-
tity increases on all items and an average of 29% has been included for
price escalation of construction and consulting service costs during imple-
mentation of the project. These allowances are considered adequate.
4.24      The average foreign exchange component of individual road construc-
tion works has been assessed by the design consultants and ranges between 68
and 72%; the average is 70%. The foreign exchange component for construction
is higher than the 65% estimated for the Second and Third Highway Projects
because the proportion of paving works is greater and the cost for imported
asphalt for paving 1/ has increased more significantly in the last two years
than other foreign exchange costs in highway construction. This component
also takes into account, as with previous highway projects that only a few
domestic firms are presently capable of carrying out the project works
without joint venturing arrangements with expatriate firms and consequently
most contracts will be won by expatriate firms or local firms in joint venture
with expatriate firms. The foreign exchange component of the various con-
sulting services ranges from 42 to 75Z and the estimate has been based on an
analysis by DGE of the local and foreign inputs for each type of service, on
Bank experience in Indonesia and elsewhere and on consultants' proposals
received by DGH for many of the services. These foreign exchange estimates
are reasonable.
D.  Financing
4.25      The proposed loan of US$130 million equivalent will cover 60%
of the total cost of the project elements proposed for Bank financing (para
4.21) and represents about 88% of the foreign exchange component of such cost.
1/   Although Indonesia is an exporter of crude oil, it has limited refining
capacity and remains a net importer of oil products such as paving
asphalts.



- 22 -
The Government will finance the remaining total project costs of US$104 mil-
lion equivalent (which includes US$700,000 of financing expected from the
UNDP, para 4.16) as part of DGH's annual development budget.
E.   Implementation and Procurement
4.26      DGH assisted by qualified consultants will be responsible for
project execution. Except for the study of the Jakarta-Cikampek Road, terms
of reference for consulting services, valued at about US$25 million equiv-
alent in total cost, have been reviewed and agreed, and firms have been invited
to submit proposals. Contracts estimated at about US$18 million are under
consideration. No contracts for these services are expected to be signed before
April 1976. The Bank Group guidelines are being followed for the procurement
of the required services and agreements for these various consultancies will be
entered into under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. In view
of the importance of the various consultancies to the prompt and effective
execution of the project, it was indicated to the Government during negotia-
tions that a condition of effectiveness to the proposed loan would be that
all consultants, except for the detailed engineering of the Jakarta-Cikampek
road, have been employed and have taken up their posts in Indonesia. Most
consulting services will begin in the first half of 1976 and will be completed
around mid-1978; however, construction supervision as required will continue
into the first half of 1980 to completion of construction and to permit pre-
paration of final documentation and reports on completed road works.
4.27      Civil works will be carried out under unit-price contracts awarded
after international competitive bidding following Bank Group Guidelines for
Procurement. Twenty-four suitably prequalified firms and joint ventures
(domestic as well as expatriate) had been invited in mid-September and October
1975 and submitted bids on five project road sections in January and February
1976; these bids are being evaluated. Indonesian firms and eligible joint
venturers will be given a 7-1/2% preference in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. A further prequalification of contractors will be completed in
June-July 1976 for the second 550 km of roads. The bidding documents used to
date have been agreed and contain appropriate provision for price adjustments,
performance guarantees, etc. It is expected that by the end of March 1976,
bids will have been invited for civil works valued at about US$59 million
equivalent of which tenders valued at about US$28 million will have been
submitted and will be under consideration; however, no contract will be
signed before April 1976. The last construction contract under the project
should be signed by the end of 1976; allowing for contractor mobilization
(averaging four months) and for contract periods of two and three years for
the various road sections, construction should be completed by the first
quarter of 1980. Placement of equipment orders to be financed by the Govern-
ment should be completed in 1977. All civil works contracts will be entered
into under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
4.28      The maintenance of the improved roads will require new and better
maintenance operations to protect the investments. Under the agreed bidding
documents, the contractor on each road, who will become thoroughly familiar



- 23 -
with local conditions, will be required to prepare an initial maintenance
program for the road for review and approval by the appropriate DGH regional
betterment office and maintenance sub-directorate. Assurances were obtained
from the Government that it will cause the roads to be maintained in ac-
cordance with the approved maintenance programs.
4.29      Major road works are carried out with a blend of labor and capital
intensive methods which give full recognition to the availability of low cost
unskilled labor in Indonesia, without undue sacrifice in the quality and
cost of the works. The same methods will apply to the works to be financed
under the project. Many construction operations are labor-oriented, such as
ditch and shoulder excavation, minor to medium shoulder strengthening (crushing
and placement of stone), minor earth cuts, and bridge and culvert construction.
The scale of the project will make a significant contribution to employment
creation; US$1 million of construction work is estimated to provide 100
man-years of skilled jobs and about 100-500 man-years of unskilled jobs,
depending on the nature and location of the work.
4.30      The project is not expected to have any significant adverse ecolo-
gical effects. The works are being designed to provide adequately for drainage
and for paving of shoulders when appropriate, to avoid flooding and erosion.
Location of the improvements is largely on existing alignments and thus minimizing
the requirements for additional land and disturbance to property.  Land ac-
quisition will be sufficiently completed for each highway section in the
project before a contract for construction is awarded to permit timely com-
mencement of construction.
4.31      An initial implementation schedule for the project's major
activities was agreed with the Government and is given in Table 8. Due to
the size and complexity of the project, the DGH Monitoring Team assisted by
the monitoring consultancy (para 4.18) will play a key role in the overall
supervision of the project, including the preparation of detailed monthly
reports for DGH on all project related activities. In addition, the Bank
plans to engage short-term specialists to assist it in the review of the
large number of studies which will be prepared by the management and screening
consultancies.
F.   Disbursements
4.32      An appropriate contribution by the Bank towards the total cost
of the project elements proposed for Bank financing would be 60% of this
cost. Most of the items in the project, representing the bulk of its cost,
have foreign exchange components in excess of 60% while no individual
item has a component of less than 42%. In view of this fact and the large
number of contracts which will need to be administered under the project, it
is proposed that a uniform 60% disbursement rate be applied to each item
proposed for financing under the project. Based on this disbursement per-
centage and on the forecast for completing the various project elements
(paras 4.27 and 4.28), a Schedule of Estimated Disbursements (Table 9) has



- 24 -
been prepared. It is expected that the costs to complete the project (con-
struction, services and contingencies) will be well established by the end
of 1976, the time when the second 550 km package of roads is to be agreed
for inclusion in the project (para 4.03 (a)). Should the Bank's share of
project costs at that time be less than the amount in the loan account, this
surplus would be used to help finance additional high priority roads selected
and approved at that time under the same arrangements as for roads in the
second 550 km package.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
General
5.01      The basic thrust of the DGH Betterment Program is to improve
roads which were originally designed to carry a small number of light
pre-World War II vehicles and now must accommodate a much larger volume of
heavier traffic. The aim is to avoid repeated repaving works by providing
roads with pavements designed for heavier loads and to further reduce vehicle
operating costs by selective improvements such as widening of carriageways
and shoulders. Directly measurable development benefits for the first
package will be small and the improvements can be justified on the basis of
cost savings alone; this will probably also be true for most of the second
package although development benefits may be significant in some of the
latter group.
5.02      The Betterment Program responds to the rapid increase in motor
vehicles over the past several years and the consequent expansion of
traffic especially on trunk roads. It will cover high priority road links
selected on the basis of traffic volume, condition of road and general
potential for regional development (para 3.12). The Program takes full
advantage of the recently increasing capacity of DGH to design and administer
large-scale highway construction, a capacity which is not yet developed at
lower levels of administration. The Program thus represents the best use
of the present resources in Indonesia's highway sector. However, the
Government is laying the groundwork for a shift of emphasis to secondary
and tertiary roads. It has instituted the INPRES Program which is being
used primarily to improve Kabupaten roads (para 3.09). It is reclassifying
its roads on the basis of traffic rather than administrative responsibility;
it is planning to complete a 20-year highway plan down to the level of major
feeder roads for all roads in the country (para 3.12); it is making efforts
by various means to strengthen the administrative capacity of the DPUPs; and
finally, it is developing with the assistance of the ADB a pilot program to
improve all parts of the road network for one area in East Java.
5.03      With the gradual improvement of the main roads under the Better-
ment Program, labor intensive forces, which presently are engaged in pro-
viding these roads with frequent repavings of limited life, will be released
for other works, particularly rehabilitation of secondary roads with lower



- 25 -
traffic volumes where simple pavement construction is more economical. The
Program will thus contribute in a substantial way to betterment of other
parts of Indonesia's road network.
Method of Analysis
5.04      Road sections included in the project were selected on the basis
of their high priority as established in the nationwide survey of highway
links (para 4.01). Although every road section included in the project has
been or will be subject to a separate feasibility study by consultants, the
intensity of study necessarily is adjusted to the large volume of work to be
accomplished. The consultants' work has been reviewed in detail for the first
package of roads and, as a result, a simplified analysis procedure is being
evolved which stresses the selection of engineering solutions with high
near-term returns. Criteria are also being developed for application to
recurring design problems such as widening of bridges and paving of shoulders.
Reductions in vehicle operating costs from the improvements are estimated to
range from about 15 to 30% and under the conditions encountered so far will
have only a limited effect in diverting or generating traffic. The roads
are not likely to compete with established transport facilities; where a rail-
way line is close to a project road, a division of traffic between the modes
according to distance and commodity already exists and is unlikely to change.
Immediate development effects resulting from road improvements are judged to
be limited because reductions in transport costs will not be large enough to
create entirely new economic activities. Accordingly, no separate projections
are made for this type of traffic and no distinct quantification of benefits
is made for such traffic in the analysis. However, the selection of roads
on the basis of regional development plans (paras 3.12 and 4.01) clearly
integrates the project roads with the general development effort and ensures
that road improvements will be made where they have the greatest potential
for contributing to growth.
5.05      Annex 3 contains a brief description of each of the roads in
the first package and of proposed improvements. It also includes a benefit-
cost calculation for each road (subdivided when appropriate into subsections)
which is partly based on the consultants' work but which concentrates on
only the most significant factors in the analysis; a sunmmary table of costs
and benefits is attached to Annex 3. The benefits and costs are compared
on the basis of continuing the present system of heavy deferred maintenance
as against the proposed improvements. The two principal alternatives are
the most viable ones selected from a larger number of possible courses of
action.
5.06      Even though investments under the Betterment Program will in sub-
stantial part last for 20 or more years, the Program concentrates on obvious
deficiencies which can be remedied by stage construction without unduly long
commitments to a particular facility. For this reason and to simplify the
analysis, the ERR calculations have been limited to 10 years after completion
of the improvements. To give recognition to the residual value of the assets,
the analysis includes a salvage value in the tenth year after completion of
construction equal to one half the initial investment, which typically is



- 26 -
between one and two times the total vehicle operating costs savings in the
ninth year and thus represents a conservative estimate of the continued
economic value of the improvements. The extended residual life of the as-
sets also forms the basis for the recommended term of 25 years for the pro-
posed loan which wQuld allow for repayment of principal in roughly 20 years
after construction is completed.
5.07      Pavement improvements, the largest single element of cost, will be
constructed in stages, which will provide for an initial design life of
10 years but will allow for extending the life of the subbase and base
with additional investments, such as overlays. In many cases, further
improvements (including sometimes construction of new alignments) are likely
to become economically justified by the end of the 10 years. The Program
thus allows for flexibility in the choice of future investments as more
comprehensive long-range road plans become available. The 10-year period
also corresponds roughly to the time when the operating costs on the existing
unimproved facilities would have reached very high levels and would have
major effects on operating cost savings and on traffic growth. In one case
(Cileyuni-Nagreg), this point is reached before the end of the 10 years
and the analysis makes appropriate adjustment for the capacity constraint.
Finally, the 10-year period recognizes that the comparison between reconstruct-
ing the road and continuing the present system of frequent pavement rehabili-
tation cannot be continued indefinitely; in due course the road will become
stabilized structurally and the costs associated with frequent repavings will
decrease.
Traffic Forecasts and Benefits
5.08      Each of the roads in the first package is projected to experi-
ence high growth of passenger car and truck traffic over the near and
medium term, at an estimated rate of 12% p.a. until 1978 and 10% p.a.
thereafter. (In one case, capacity constraints may intervene to reduce
the rate of growth after the initial period.) Passenger cars include
not only automobiles for private use but substantial numbers of cars carry-
ing persons for hire and minibuses and pick-ups converted for passenger
service. Historical traffic data for the road sections, though only
available for a few years and probably containing some inaccuracies,
point to a strong increase in car and truck traffic in the very recent
past, frequently considerably more than 15% p.a. While the projected rate
of increase of 12% p.a. slightly exceeds the combined national growth in
car and truck registrations (Table 5), the road sections are major trunk
routes in their areas which would attract a larger share of additional traf-
fic. The consultants also have supported these traffic projections by
forecasts of additional commodity flows and of increases in population and
income in the influence areas of the roads. Two roads, Padang-Sawahtambang
and Kotamobagu-Inobonto, are linked to two major development roads now
being built under IDA finance (Credits 260-IND and 388-IND) and are
expected to benefit from exceptional traffic increases once these schemes
are completed. The 12% growth rate for cars and trucks is expected to
decline somewhat to 10% p.a. as the surge in income from the increase in
oil revenues works itself through the economy.



- 27 -
5.09      Bus traffic is generally projected to grow slolwy, about 3% p.a.
which reflects the historical trends and the limited market for this type
of service. Two road sections have much higher growth in bus traffic where
local settlements are sparse and long distance service offers profitable
employment for large buses. A growth rate of 5% p.a. is used where roads
have high traffic volumes and buses can take advantage of economies of scale
and partly replace minibuses.
5.10      The main benefits included in the analysis are savings in avoided
repaving expenses and related vehicle operating costs as the pavement deter-
iorates and is repaired. Savings in vehicle operating expenses are also attri-
buted to widening of carriageways and improvement in shoulders. Other bene-
fits are expected to result from the proposed improvements but have not been
included in the analysis because they either are small or uncertain in amount:
realignments and grade improvements (these are mostly minor in the proposed
designs), bridge improvements, travellers' time savings, reduced accident
costs, and reduced operating costs for motorcycles and non-motorized traffic.
Savings in road maintenance costs beyond the repeated costs of repaving are
expected to be of little significance. Bridge works, ranging from about 5 to
20% of the costs in the various sections which primarily replace bridges in
danger of collapse but also include some other bridge improvements, can have
significant benefits in permitting the safe passage of heavier loads, in
avoiding slow-downs where the bridge is widened and in avoiding the cost of
interrupted traffic if a bridge collapses. DGH is developing economic criteria
to analyze the return on various bridge works; meanwhile, bridge improvements
have been designed for these road sections primarily on the basis of engineering
judgement and no special economic benefits have been considered for them
in the analysis although the costs of bridges were included as part of the
road costs.
Results of Analysis
5.11      The best estimate of the economic rates of return (ERR's) calculated
on the foregoing bases ranges from 12 to 29% and reflects the bulk of the
benefits; however, these would increase by a few percentage points if all
benefits were taken into account. The sensitivity of the ERR's to changes
in construction cost of + 15% and changes in benefits of  25% indicate that
in most cases the lowest value is 10% or above and that the ERR may be as high
as 36%. On 3 sections or subsections analyzed out of 13, the low value
ranges from 7 to 9% and the high value from 16 to 20%. These sections or sub-
sections serve as links to roads being financed under existing IDA credits
(para 5.08) and may help to generate additional traffic on those roads. In view
of the foregoing the ERR's for all roads are considered satisfactory and
the proposed improvements economically justified. Individual ERR's are
given in Annex 3 and the average ERR on the first 550 km package is 19%.
5.12      The consultants' analyses for each road section considered
several levels of carriageway widening and shoulder improvements and the
design selected was the optimal alternative for the particular case.
Further empirical validations of the consultants' assumptions, particularly



- 28 -
with regard to the behavior of traffic under Indonesian conditions, are
being made to refine the analyses for use in other schemes under the
Betterment Program. However, the major conclusions which emerge from
the consultants' work are unlikely to be affected: the Betterment
Program should concentrate on sections which have a record of frequent
pavement repair; among these, the most attractive schemes will have rela-
tively low costs of construction and high traffic volumes; improvements
to be built concurrently with pavement strengthening should be considered
in each case but are likely to be limited in most cases to bridge works
and wider carriageways and better shoulders.
5.13      Although the initial 550 km did not include upgrading of very low
standard tracks or roads with low existing traffic volumes, the second 550 km
may include such works. These improvements would be based primarily on
development benefits and may in some cases require analysis periods of more
than 10 years. In other respects, the review of the second package of roads
will be made along the same lines as for the first package. The range of ERR's
and the average ERR for the second package (which together with the first
account of 90% of the total project cost) is expected to be similar to the
first package.
5.14      Discussion of the economic costs and the beneficiaries of the
project is contained in Annex 6.
Project Elements without Quantified Economic Analysis
5.15      These elements which account for about 10% of total cost and for
which no meaningful ERR be estimated, are excluded from the average ERR given
above (19%). Nevertheless, they have an important bearing on the execution
of the Program and also lay the basis for improved future functioning of
highway organizations at all levels of the Government, for upgrading the highway
network and for fully exploiting its potential.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations:
(a) satisfactory assurances were received on the following
principal points:
(i)  The semi-annual reviews of the Second Plan DGH
Development Program which will provide the basis
for examining the progress of the Program on a
continuous basis and to identify and remove
bottlenecks as they occur (para 4.04);
(ii) the consultancy arrangements for the project
to ensure adequate supervision of construction,
study and detailed engineering of future highway
betterments, and to provide management advice to
DGH (paras 4.04-4.19, Annex 4); and



- 29 -
(iii)  the major studies to be carried out under the
project, such as the study of DPUPs, the study of
vehicle weights and dimensions and road user
charges, and the study of the civil works
contracting and consulting industries (paras
4.17-4.19);
(b) confirmation was obtained:
(i)  on an initial DGH action program to improve
selected aspects of DGH's management activities
(para 4.17); and
(ii)  on an initial implementation schedule for the
project (para 4.31, Table 8).
6.02      In view of the importance of the various consultancies for the
prompt and effective execution of the project, a condition to the effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan is that all consultants, except for the detailed
engineering of the Jakarta-Cikampek Road, have been employed and have taken
up their posts in Indonesia (para 4.26).
6.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$130 million to
the Republic of Indonesia for a period of 25 years, including a five-year
period of grace.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
FOURTH hIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Transport Modes other than Highways
Railways
1.        Railways are confined (with one minor exception in Madura) to two
islands: about 4,700 km on Java and 2,000 km on Sumatera. The railways,
which were built during the 70 years prior to World War II to move primary
commodities to foreign markets, suffered with declining exports in the 1950's
and 1960's and, as with most public infrastructure in Indonesia, they were
allowed to deteriorate. Limited rehabilitation took place during the First
Five-Year Plan and freight traffic recovered significantly, at about 7% p.a.
in m ton-km, while passenger traffic after many years of decline is starting
to shown an upward trend. Due to long neglect in replacing of over-age
assets and poor maintenance facilities, railway operations have remained
deficient.
2.        With better performance, the railway could continue to make an im-
portant contribution to the economy, especially along high density freight
corridors in Java and on certain sections of the Sumatera railway network
and in moving the growing volumes of industrial bulk commodities. Accordingly,
the railway has formulated a comprehensive program of modernization and
rehabilitation coupled with technical assistance which formed the basis of
a Bank Railway Project (Loan 1005-IRD), in June 1974, and is presently being
implemented. The proposed action program, which has recently started, includes
acquisition of locomotives and rolling stock, improvement and modernization
of maintenance of assets, reorganization of management, further phased staff
reduction and modernization of accounting. Important performance targets
have also been agreed: by 1979-80, the railway is to cover all operating
costs including depreciation and earn a small return on investment (1-1/4%);
average net train loads are expected to be increased in Java from 110 m tons
in 1973 to 162 in 1979 and car turn-around time reduced from 8.3 to 7.3 days.
Ports and Shipping
3.        The country has about 300 registered ports scattered over the
archipelago, but 70% of traffic volume is concentrated in 10 of them. Port
and customs procedures present the most serious impediment to transport
flows in Indonesia and improvement thereto could result in significant in-
creases in port capacity and a reduction in shipping costs. However, due
to institutional rigidities, major change will take a long time. Studies
of short-term port requirements have been completed by consultants, NEDECO
(Netherlands), and main ports are being improved with assistance from the
Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Netherlands and Japan. Preparation of
master plans for the ports of Surabaya, Belawan, Palembang and Panjang are



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
under way, financed by the the UNDP or bilaterally. A master plan study of
Tanjung Priok (Jakarta), the largest general cargo port (handling about 30%
of the country's total traffic in that category) has been completed by con-
sultants, Swan Wooster (Canada), financed under IDA Technical Assistance
Credits (216-IND and 275-IND). Appraisal for a Bank loan to expand the capacity
of this port is under way.
4.        In 1974 vessels owned in Indonesia (excluding sailing craft) aggre-
gated 1,055 units with a combined deadweight tonnage of 1,159,000. About
half of this tonnage, but only a small fraction of the number of vessels,
is in foreign trade with the remainder operating in domestic services and
to Singapore. In addition, substantial tonnages of hire purchased and char-
tered vessels operate under the Indonesian flag. After petroleum movements,
the largest domestic maritime operations are provided by the companies of the
Regular Liner Service (RLS) which accounts for half of domestic seaborne dry
cargo tonnage and is the Government's chosen instrument for providing service
to the remoter regions of Indonesia. RLS services have been high cost and
unreliable due to an overaged fleet, weak management and inordinately long
port times.
5.        A project was formulated in 1972 with IDA assistance (Credit 318-
IND) to address the foregoing problems by providing funds for rehabilitation
of run-down ships, encouraging the scrapping of obsolete units and providing
for improvements in ship and port operations. Further improvements along
these lines are required as well as expansion of RLS tonnage; a second ship-
ping project is currently being appraised for these purposes. Demand for
shipping services which has been rising rapidly in recent years and is fore-
cast to continue to go up in the future will thus be met both by increasing
the productivity of existing assets and by increasing the size of the fleet.
The Government also plans to increase its subsidized "pioneer" 1/ services
to reach the remotest parts of the country not covered by RLS.
River Transport
6.        Commercial river transport extends to 10,000 km of navigable
waterways. The most important river traffic is logs. Fourteen rivers in
Kalimantan and Sumatera totalling 4,000 km were recently studied by con-
sultants, Research and Development (Belgium), and the Government is in-
stalling better navigational aids but no major improvement works are con-
templated. The Government is also planning to expand "pioneer" services
by river craft in some of the remote regions.
Pipelines
7.        Pipelines are under the control of the state-owned oil company,
Pertamina. A product pipeline from Cilacap to Jogjakarta is already in
use; another line from Cilacap to Bandung is presently under construction;
when open it will divert significant amounts of petroleum products from the
1/   "Pioneer" services are those operated by the Government into remote
areas for purposes of national integration at subsidized rates.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
railway. A gas gathering pipeline system was financed by IDA in 1972 in
Sumatera to supply gas for the PUSRI II fertilizer plant (Credit 193-IND)
and will be extended to supply PUSRI III under Bank Loan 1089-IND. Another
gas line is under construction in Java to supply gas for the proposed West
Java fertilizer plant at Jatibarang and a steel plant near Merak.
Aviation
8.        In 1972 about 95% of domestic civil air traffic movement in Indo-
nesia passed through 27 airports (about one-third of these movements through
Jakarta) and recent improvements were concentrated in these facilities to
permit use by modern aircraft which could handle the rapid rise in traffic
most efficiently. As a result, 19 airports can now accept jets as against
only 3 at the start of the First Plan. While landing fields have been im-
proved, substantial deficiencies persist in aeronautic communications, navi-
gational aids and air traffic control. In line with the rapid rise in traf-
fic (nearly three times between 1968-1972), the capacity of the civil aviation
fleet has been expanded and the types of aircraft diversified. The number of
planes has, however, been reduced with the replacement of low capacity older
aircraft by more efficient equipment. Most of the needs in the aviation sub-
sector are for equipment for which bilateral financing is likely to be avail-
able. The Government is studying the construction of a new international
airport for Jakarta and is presently reviewing a report on this subject by
consultants, Aviation Planning Services (Canada). During the Second Plan,
the Government also intends to promote the construction of landing fields
in the remote districts which will be provided with a subsidized service
by low capacity aircraft.
March 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of DGH Highway Development Program in Second Five-Year Plan
1.        The DGH Highway Development Program for the Second Five-Year Plan
comprises four main elements:
(a) New construction - covering about 1,100 km 1/;
(b) Betterment Program - covering about 13,000 km
of road links;
(c) a substantial contribution to maintenance and
rehabilitation of the national and provincial
network; and
(d) Bridge Program - covering about 1,500 bridges.
The definitions of the Program elements are as follows:
(a) New Construction - a road where none existed
before or where traffic on the existing road
in the corridor is up to the road's capacity
and can best be accommodated by building a
road on a new alignment;
(b) Betterment - improvement to the existing road 2/
where present traffic is either:
(i) beyond the geometric capacity of the
road; or
(ii)  beyond the structural capacity of the
road;
geometric capacity is inadequate if there are
high vehicle operating costs, congestion, high
transit times and low service levels; structural
capacity is measured by excessive and frequent
expenditures to maintain rideability of the road
surface; geometric and structural improvements will
be designed to cater for projected traffic;
1/   This is not the same 1,100 km covered by the proposed loan which are
part of the 13,000 km under (b) below.
2/   Includes all necessary bridge works.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
(c) Rehabilitation - reinstatement works on existing
road lengths where betterments are not required
(i.e., traffic is within the road's present geometric
and structural capacity) 1/; and
(d) Bridge__roSraa 2/- replacement of selected bridges
which have collapsed or are in dangerous condition
or need greater traffic capacity.
The new construction and betterment programs will be mainly the responsi-
bility of DGH while the maintenance and rehabilitation programs and some
of the bridge program will be the responsibility of the DPUPs. A summary
of physical and financial targets (the latter expressed in 1974 Rupiahs)
for the DGH Development Program is contained in the table attached to this
Annex.
2.        New construction represents a considerable number of roads
already under way (about 500 km), including some major roads in the vic-
inity of Jakarta. In addition, construction of a further 600 km of new
roads is to begin over the next three years. Estimated cost per km ranges
from Rp 100 million to Rp 1,200 million (US$240,000 to US$2,900,000), with
an average of about Rp 400 million (US$960,000). Aggregate expenditures
for the plan are estimated at Rp 180 billion (US$435 million), to be fi-
nanced roughly one-half from the Rupiah development budget and one-half
from foreign aid.
3.        The Betterment Program is concentrated on roughly 140 links
aggregating 13,000 km which have emerged from a nationwide analysis,
with the assistance of the HPAT, as the most important traffic corridors
in the next 10 years. A more detailed review of the road conditions in
each corridor is expected to reduce the length of roads which require
actual betterment works to about 10,000 km. Actual road betterments
completed by the end of the Plan are targeted to aggregate about 5,000 km
and another 2,900 km will likely be underway by that time and finished
in tne first two years of the following plan period. A further 2,100 km
will not be started until after the end of the Plan. About 2,000 km were
underway by December 31, 1975. On the basis of an average cost per km
of Rp 40 million (US$96,000), the estimated cost of the Betterment Program
in the Second Plan is Rp 260 billion (US$627 million) which represents an-
ticipated expenditures of Rp 200 billion (US$482 million) for about 5,000 km
of completed works and of Rp 60 billion (US$145 million) for 2,900 km under
1/  Also includes so called "support works", that is, essential road and
bridge works to maintain traffic flow on road lengths where betterments
are required but due to various constraints must be deferred.
2/   Excludes all bridge works on road links included in ttAe Betterment
Program, except for bridges in danger of collapse.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
way. Of the total cost, it is expected that Rp 180 billion (US$435 million)
will be financed from the development budget and Rp 80 billion (US$193 mil-
lion) from foreign aid.
4.        The DGH contribution to maintenance and rehabilitation work which
will be executed by the provinces is estimated to aggregate about Rp 80 bil-
lion (US$193 million) over the Second Plan, with Rp 60 billion (US$145 mil-
lion) coming from the development budget and Rp 20 billion (US$48 million)
coming from foreign aid.
5.        The bridge program is based on an estimated average bridge length
of 15 m or a total of 20,000 lineal m of bridges, partly one-lane and partly
two-lane wide; in terms of one-lane bridges, the bridge works aggregate about
30,000 lineal m; of this amount, 16,000 m will be completed by the end of the
Second Plan and 14,000 m will be under way. The estimated cost per lineal m
of single-lane bridge is Rp 5.8 million (US$14,000). Total expenditures for
completed bridges are estimated at about Rp 93 billion (US$224 million) and
for bridges under way about Rp 27 billion (US$65 million). Collapsed or dan-
gerous bridges on betterment links will be included in most cases in the bet-
terment schemes and the bridge program will therefore be in addition to bridge
works included with road betterments. About two-thirds of the bridge program
is to be financed by foreign aid.
March 1976



INDONESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Second Five-Year Plan Development Program of Directorate General of Highways
(April 1974-larch 1979)
(Physical Targets (1974-79)                Expenditure Targets (1974-79)
Foreign Aid           Agency Pesponsible
Total       Dev.                 Already    To be        for Execution
Name of Program    Total   Completed   Underway  Expenditures  Budget    Total           Arranged  Arranged  DGH               DP-JP
-------- km------------)----------------Rp Billion------------------- ) {
New Construction   1,100         600        500          180          90         90          60         30     100               0
Betterment         10,000      5,000      2,900          260         180         80          50         30       80             20
Rehabilitation    14,000    14,000            0 )
)        80          60         20          20          0        0            100
Maintenance        10,000    10,000    10,000 )
p.a.      p.a.       p.a.
(------------m------------)
Bridge             30,000    16,000    14,000            120          45         75          10         65       80             20
TOTAL                                                    640         375        265         140        125
Source:  Directorate General of Highways
Note:  Total expenditures include land acquisition, design and supervision costs                                                CD
March 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 13
INDONESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description and Evaluation of First 550 Km of Road Improvements
Roads were divided into analysis sections based on terrain, traf-
fic and economic characteristics. A brief description is given for each
road and of the improvements proposed in each section. The consequent flow
of costs and benefits are set out in the table to this Annex.
1.   Padang-Sawahtambang
This road of about 80 km connects the capital of West Sumatera
lying on the coast with the Trans-Sumatera Highway presently under con-
struction with IDA finance (Credit 260-IND). The road passes through
diverse terrain (see details below) and has been divided into four sections
for purposes of analysis. The area of influence for the road is projected
to have rapid economic growth, particularly after completion of the Trans-
Sumatera project. Substantial increases in rice production are anticipated
in the area and a cement mill and coal mine lying along the road plan major
investments during the Second Plan to expand output. By 1984, the output
at these facilities is estimated to reach over 1 million m tons, more than
three times current levels and even though rail and ropeway will be the
main means for moving the coal and cement, road traffic will increase from
secondary effects of these changes. Exploration for coal with promising
preliminary results is taking place in an adjacent area south-east of the
road and would create substantial additional traffic once the deposits are
developed. A railway which connects the termini of the road by a more
circuitous route is primarily a coal carrier; even if it were rehabilitated
from its present run-down condition, it is unlikely to divert much traffic
from the road.
Section I (Padang-Indarung)
Length: 9.2 km
Cost per km: Rp 56.4 million
Traffic information:



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 13
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                            959        119        328
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in %                       12        12         12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in %                       10         5         10
Vehicle operating costs, Rp per vehicle-km:
Without improvement                             48        114         96
With improvement                                 36        86         72
Savings                                         12         28         24
Rate of return, best estimate                                   26%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                       20-32%
The section begins at the outskirts of the city of Padang (population about
200,000) and continues to the entrance of the cement factory at Indarung.
The terrain through which it traverses is generally flat to rolling. The
carriageway will be widened from 5.5 to 7 m and earth shoulders of 1.5 m
on each side will be strengthened with crushed rock. It is assumed that on
average the existing pavement will require repaving bi-annually with existing
methods. 1/ With a 7 m wide pavement, the road should be able to carry
projected traffic until beyond the mid 1980's. At that time, further
improvements such as paving of shoulders may be required to cater to the
requirements of this semi-urban area.
Section II (Indarung-Lubukselasih)
Length: 22.0 km
Cost per km: Rp 38.9 million
Traffic information:
1/   Existing paving methods (applied on all the project roads) involve the
placement of a layer of stone and grouting it with bitumen. While the
methods used are labor intensive, quality control is difficult to achieve,
materials are wasted and in any event this type of pavement is suitable
only for very light traffic. Under present traffic conditions on the
project roads, this method of repaving is uneconomic even if the cost
of unskilled labor were taken at less than market rates.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 13
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                              35        53        107
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in %                       12         12        12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in %                       10          5        10
Vehicle operating costs, Rp per vehicle-km:
Without improvement                              62       152        126
With improvement                                 50       124        102
Savings                                          12        28         24
Rate of return, best estimate                                    15%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                       9-20%
This section serves as a link between the coastal plain and the inland
plateau and surmounts the sharp escarpement separating the two areas. It
has steep grades and numerous curves and passes primarily through forest.
The carriageway which is partly 4 m wide will be widened to 4.5 m through-
out, and 0.75 m crushed rock shoulders will be provided on each side instead
of the existing earth shoulders. These improvements will allow somewhat
easier passage of vehicles on the section and accommodate traffic to about
700 ADT when major improvements should become economically feasible. Because
of heavy rains and poor alignments, this section is estimated to require re-
paving once every 18 months.
Section III (Lubukselasih-Solok)
Length: 24.6 km
Cost per ki:  Rp 30.4 million
Traffic information:



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 13
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                             100         65         80
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in %                       12         12         12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in %                       10          5         10
Vehicle operating costs, Rp per vehicle-km:
Without improvement                              54        127        110
With improvement                                 43        102         89
Savings                                          11         25        21
Rate of return, best estimate                                    16%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                        10-21%
The third section passes over rolling agricultural terrain to the edge of
the town of Solok (population about 25,000). The carriageway which is
presently 4 m wide will be broadened to 4.5 m and existing 1 m earth
shoulders will be upgraded and surfaced with crushed rock. The unim-
proved road surface is estimated to require repaving on average every
other year. Roughly ten years after opening, ADT is projected at the
level of 800 when widening to 6 m should become feasible.
Section IV (Solok-Sawahtamban
Length: 24.0 km
Cost per km:  Rp 37.9 million
Traffic information:
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                             100         65         80
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in %                        12        12         12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in %                        10         5         10
Vehicle operating costs, Rp per vehicle-km:
Without improvement                              48        114         96
With improvement                                 36         86         72
Savings                                          12         28         24
Rate of return, best estimate                                     13%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                        8-18%



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 13
The last section which excludes the municipal area of Solok is in relatively
flat terrain. Although traffic conditions and projections are the same as
for Section III, construction costs per m width of roadway are substantially
less and it is thus feasible to widen the carriageway from the present 3.8 or
4 m to 6 m. Existing earth shoulders (somewhat over 1 m on each side) will
be upgraded with crushed rock. The traffic generated by the coal mine which
lies along this section also justifies the somewhat earlier progression to
the higher design standard which is proposed. Without the proposed strengthening,
repaving is estimated to be'required every two years on this section.
2.   Tebingtinggi-Rantauprapat
This road starts some 70 km from the provincial capital of Medan
and covers about 208 km to Rantauprapat. It passes through low lying wet
areas along the coast and in the south through savannah; the soils are not
well suited to road building; stone for aggregate is available only at some
distance and numerous waterways require an unusually high expenditure on
bridges; these factors account for higher than average construction costs.
The economy of the area is oriented to production of cash crops for export,
especially rubber and palm oil, and rehabilitation of estates in the zone
of influence (some under IDA finance) is expected to produce major increases
in output and regional income. The consultant has projected that marketable
surplus of rice in the zone of influence will go up by 70% to about 700,000
tons in the next 1.0 years and that population will increase at a rate of 3.2%
p.a.,more than the average for Indonesia as a whole. The Government is
planning a hydroelectric aluminum refining complex, located in the road's
zone of influence on the Asahan River; road traffic will benefit during both
construction and production phases of the project. The railway which parallels
the road specializes in carrying bulk export crops to the port of Belawan
near Medan; even with the reduction in road operating costs the railway will
retain its competitive advantage on this traffic but is not expected to be
able to compete with road transport for significiant parts of the remaining
freight offerings.
Section I (Tebingtinggi-Limapuluh)
Length: 43.1 km
Cost per km: Rp 85.2 million
Traffic information:



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 13
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                            224        121        315
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in Z                       12         3         12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in X                       10          3        10
Vehicle operating costs, Rp per vehicle-km:
Without improvement                             49        118         99
With improvement                                 35        86         72
Savings                                          14        32         27
Rate of return, best estimate                                   16%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                      13-20%
The section begins at the southern edge of Tebingtinggi (population about
40,000). About one third of the section has a carriageway width of 4 m;
along the remainder it is 5 m wide. Shoulders on each side are mostly
of earth (1.5 m) and will be substituted by crushed stone (2 m).  Some
parts are subject to flooding and will have to be raised. The poor soil
conditions require repaving at estimated 18 months intervals.
Secti1(Limapuluh-Simpangkawat)
Length:  52.0 km
Cost per km:  Rp 85.2 million
Traffic information:
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                            464        182        397
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in Z                       12          3        12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in %                       10          3        10
Vehicle operating costs, Rp per vehicle-km:
Without improvement                              49       118         99
With improvement                                 35        86         72
Savings                                          14        32         27
Rate of return, best estimate                                    21%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                        15-26%



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 13
The second section is very similar to the first; the predominant carriageway
width is 4.5 m and the existing earth shoulders vary from 1.5 to 2.5 m.  The
proposed widening of the carriageway to 6 m and the shoulders to 2 m each
will serve projected traffic adequately in both cases for at least ten years
after opening; if trucks continue to be as heavy a proportion of total traf-
fic as now, further improvements might be warranted at that time, particularly
wider shoulders near towns. As in the first section, repavings are estimated
to be required under present conditions every 18 months.
Section III (Simpangkawat to Rantauprapat)
Lenth: 113.0 km
Cost per km: Rp 70.4 million
Traffic information:
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                            140         96       207
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in %                       12        12         12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in %                       10         5         10
Vehicle operating costs, Rp per vehicle-km:
Without improvement                             59        143        115
With improvement                                42        104        82
Savings                                         17         39        33
Rate of return, best estimate                                   18%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                       12-23%
Except for short stretches, near communities, the present carriageway is
4.5 m wide but in the last 18 km to Rantauprapat it widens to 6 m. The
shoulders are made of earth and for most of the road are 1 m wide on each
side but in some stretches range up to 2 m. The existing road surface is
in very poor condition and is estimated to require repavings at least every
18 months. Under the proposed improvement, the carriageway will be widened
to 6 m and shoulders will be made to crushed rock standard 1 m wide on each
side.
3.   Denpasar-Gilimanuk
This highway (about 122 km lone excluding sections in some munici-
palities) traverses the southern portion of Bali and connects Denpasar its



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 13
capital (population about 33,000) with Gilimanuk the terminal of the ferry
to Java. The terrain is broken west of Denpasar but becomes flat to rolling
on the remaining two thirds of the project. Rice growing is the most
important economic activity in the zone of influence and is projected by the
consultants to nearly double in the next ten years. Tourism, centered in
Denpasar, is expected to increase necessitating supplies from Java to be
transported over this road. The road also is used to bring the production
of Bali's handicraft industry to market.
Section I (Denpasar-Antosari)
Length: 37.0 km
Cost per km:  Rp 63.2 million
Traffic information:
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                            623        228       342
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in %                       12         3         12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in %                       10         3         10
Vehicle operating costs, Rp per vehicle km:
Without improvement                             48        114        96
With improvement                                36         86        72
Savings                                         12         28        24
Rate of return, best estimate                                   23%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                      16-29%
This section begins at the outskirts of Denpasar and for most of its first
half passes through a series of communities. The ADT on this half of the
section is much higher than in the section as a whole and there is much
side friction. The existing carriageway is therefore proposed to be
widened on this stretch from 5 to 7 m while over the remainder of the
section the 5 m carriageway will be increased by only 1 m. In the urban-
ized area existing earth shoulders (1.5 to 2.5 m wide on each side) will
be converted to 2 m shoulders with double surface treatment. The remainder
of this section will have 2 m wide crushed rock shoulders instead of the
existing 1 m earth shoulders.  The lower construction cost per m of roadway
width on this section allow the application of somewhat higher design standards.
The road is estimated to require repaving bi-annually under present conditions.



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 13
Section II (Antosari-Gilimanuk)
Length: 85.3 km
Cost per km:  Rps 51.8 million
Traffic information:
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                            214        112       192
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in %                      12          3         10
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in %                      10          3         10
Vehicle operating cost, Rp per vehicle-km:
Without improvement                             48        111        93
With improvement                                37         86        72
Savings                                         11         25        21
Rate of return, best estimate                                   18%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                      12-24%
Most of this road was built during World War II for emergency military use;
its structure is weak and requires frequent repaving at estimated intervals
of 18 months. The carriageway will be widened from 5 to 6 m and earth
shoulders which now range from 3 to 5 m per side will be substituted by
crushed rock shoulders of 2 m.
4.   Kotamobagu-Inobonto
This highway in North Sulawesi connects two separate sections of
road presently under construction with IDA financial assistance (Credit 388-IND).
The major present and potential generation of traffic is the agricultural
development scheme in the Dumoga Valley which was the basis for the eco-
nomic justification of IDA assistance in the Third Highway Project (Credit
388-IND). At full development, the scheme should yield 40,000 additional
tons of rice which would be destined for market in Menado, the provincial
capital. This through-traffic would travel from the Duloduo area to Rota-
mobagu, then to Inobonto and along the coast to Menado. There is an alter-
native route from Kotamobagu to Menado which is shorter than the coastal
road (about 93 km as against 119 km) but is mountainous and hence normally
less attractive to through-traffic. Due to construction of the coastal
road most through-traffic is now using the more difficult mountain alter-
native. Traffic has therefore dropped on the Kotamobagu-Inobonto section



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 13
to roughly 100 four-wheel vehicles per day, serving the villages along the
way and the towns at either end (population 9,000 and 4,000 respectively).
However, once the two roads presently under construction are finished,
through-traffic will use the coastal road and therefore the Kotamobagu-
Inobonto section to reach it. Accordingly, traffic has been projected
from counts before the start of construction at 12% p.a. to an opening
year volume of somewhat under 400 ADT.
At the time of appraisal of the Third Highway Project, this sec-
tion was thought to be in adequate condition until about 1980 and the pro-
posed betterment therefore roughly accords with this forecast. The road
has deteriorated more rapidly and costs to maintain the pavement without
further deterioration are estimated at Rp 1.6 million p.a. per km. The
existing road follows a rather tortuous alignment along a stream and
crosses many tributaries, some on dilapidated bridges, some by fords.
Traffic is interrupted for short periods after heavy rains because of
the fords. The pavement is partly penetration macadam but for most of
the road has deteriorated to something like gravel. The improvements pro-
posed include repair of bridges and construction of wooden bridges over the
fords, provision of 4.5 m carriageway with double surface treatment (which
will widen the existing road in some stretches) and 1 m crushed rock in-
stead of the 1 m earth shoulder on each side as at present. The solution
would be adequate for about 10 years at which time a wider and more sub-
stantial carriageway should become feasible.
Length: 37.1 km
Cost per km: Rp 46.0 million
Traffic information:
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT actual                                       61        27         23
1974 ADT adjusted                                    105        81         56
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in %                       12         12        12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in %                       10          5        10
Vehicle operating cost, Rp per vehicle-km:
Without improvement                              59       143        115
With improvement                                 42       104         82
Savings                                          17        39         33
Rate of return, best estimate                                    12%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                       7-16%
5.   Cileyuni-Nagreg
This highway begins about 20 km from the metropolis of Bandung
(population about 1,270,000) and falls within its zone of influence. The
continued growth of this as an industrial and trade center is the basis



ANNEX 3
Page t1 of 13
for projecting forward the high traffic growth rates observed during recent
years. The road passes through a succession of communities and the last
third is a mountainous stretch with steep grades and sharp curves. The
proposed improvements (basically widening the carriageway from 6 to 7 m
and the shoulders from partly earth and partly paved shoulders to 2.5 m
shoulders paved on both sides throughout) will only produce a limited re-
duction in operating costs because side friction will remain significant
in the urbanized areas and no significant realignments are being made in
the mountain stretch. The resulting congestion costs are expected to dam-
pen traffic growth after the initial period. Moreover, the traffic volume
projected for opening year is so high that the unimproved road would have
had difficulty in accommodating further increases. For that reason, full
vehicle operating cost savings are taken only for the first 6,100 vehicles
roughly; additional traffic is considered "generated" in the sense that it
would not have moved except for the improvement and according to a common
convention is valued at half the savings in vehicle operating costs. The
projected ADT in the tenth year after opening will be nearly 11,000 and
further improvements should then become economically attractive. Pavement
condition on this section is considered relatively good and estimated to
require repaving only tri-annually.
Length:  21.6 km
Cost per km:  Rp 92.1 million
Traffic information:
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                            3,021      336        558
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in %                        12         5        12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-83, in %                         8         5         8
Growth rate p.a., 1984-88, in %                         6         5         6
Vehicle operating cost, Rp per vehicle-kim:
Without improvement                               48      115         96
With improvement                                  42      101         84
Savings                                            6       14         12
Rate of return, best estimate                                    26%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                        18-32%
6.   Probolinggo-Lumajang
The economic conditions applicable to this road and the Jember-
Bondowoso road are very similar. They lie in adjoining fertile valleys on



ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 13
either side of a north-south mountain range and are joined by another road
running south of the mountains which is also slated for improvement. The
vertical and horizontal alignments are therefore quite easy. The combined
population is estimated at over 4 million and agricultural crops at over
2 million m tons which the consultant expects to rise by more than 50% by
1984. Agriculture is diversified with rice accounting for somewhat more
than half the tonnages produced and the remainder divided between cassava,
fruit and vegetables, corn, coconuts, sugarcane and tobacco. The latter
three crops have potential for the creation of expanded processing indus-
tries. Several large cities along the routes will also contribute to
accelerated traffic growth: Lumajang has 53,000 inhabitants, Probolinggo
92,000, Jember 141,000 and Bondowoso 45,000. The traffic and road condi-
tions are quite analogous on both roads. Probolinggo-Lumajang had some
1,900 four-wheeled vehicles in 1974, while the other road had about 1,600;
however, the first road has a much higher proportion of trucks and buses.
Both roads (except a stretch near Bondowoso) are also part of a principal
route to Bali. The carriageway is 6 m wide except near some towns where
it has been widened. It is in rather good condition and estimated to
require repaving only once every three years. No change in carriageway
width is contemplated but the existing earth shoulders (varying from 1.5
to 2.5 m each side) will be widened to 2 m crushed stone. This change is
made expensive by the need to remove large shade trees from one side of
the road.  With the projected traffic growth both roads will be at the level
of about 6,000 ADT by the tenth year after opening and further improvements
(wider carriageway and/or paved shoulders) may become feasible at that time.



ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 13
Length: 43.6 km
Cost per km:  Rp 43.6 million
Traffic information:
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                            1,054       212        615
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in %                         12        3         12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in %                         10        3         10
Vehicle operating cost, Rp per vehicle-km:
Without improvement                               44       105         89
With improvement                                  37        87         74
Savings                                            7        18         15
Rate of return, best estimate                                    29%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                       21-36Z
7.   Jember-Bondowoso
Background information on this road is provided under Probolinggo-
Lumajang.
Length: 32.9 km
Cost per km:  Rp 47.7 million
Traffic information:
Cars     Buses      Trucks
1974 ADT                                            1,322        68        222
Growth rate p.a., 1974-78, in %                         12        3         12
Growth rate p.a., 1979-88, in %                         10        3         10
Vehile operating costs, Rp per vehicle-km:
Without improvement                               44       105         89
With improvement                                  37        87         74
Savings                                            7        18         15
Rate of return, best estimate                                    22%
Rates of return, with sensitivity tests                       16-28%
March 1976



Table
0001511 5103AY PROJECT
Osti-tsd Costs sod Iseefits - First 5501. of Roads
(Isp Millioss)
1976      1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983      1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
1.  Podeoo - OS-ehtebsog. Seotioc I
Costs - Co..strottoo Costs (See Rots)                         207.6      155.7      155.7
ReesfitS  A-Avidod Ospeoias Costs                              13.0       13.0       13.0      13.0       13.0       13.0       13.0       13.0       13.0       13.0      13.0       13.0       13.0
- Ohiols Opsrsttse Cost Soy-tgs                                                     125.5      137.2     100.0      167.0      179.3      196.2      214.7     237.0      263.2      281.6
S'OcIvgs                                                                                                                                                                             259.5
Soctis,, SI
Costs - Ceostrotios Costs                                     342.3      256.7      256.5
Sc.-fit.  A-Avided Ropaviog Costs                              59.2       59.2       39.3       59.2      59.2       59.2       59.2       59.2       59.2       38.2       59.2       59.2      59.2
V.ohfole Iporotiog Cost S-viogs                                                      58.1      62.0       68.3       74.1       80.4       87.4       94.9      103.2      112.2     122.5
-Salvsgt                                                                                                                                                                             427.9
Costs - Corstoettlo  Coats                                    298.9      224.2      224.2
s-fit.s A-1Aodsd Rop-eto  Costs                                46.0       46.0       4.0       4.0        46.0       46.0       46.0       46.0       4.0        46.0       46.0      46.0        44.0
-Veh.lol  Operatirs Cost So-togs                                                     65.5      70.0       76.7       83.0       89.9       97.4      105.6      114.6      124.4      135.0
- Siolge                                                                                                                                                                             373.7
Rots of Rstoo: 16%
Settio,, IV
Costs - Cocstrottos Costs                                     362.5      272.6      272.6
Bse.fit.  A-Avided Rspovios Costs                              44.9       64.9      U.S         44.9      44.9       4.9        44.9       4.9        4.9        44.9       44.9      44.9        4.9
- Ohiol. Ope..stioR Cost lo-iogs                                                     70.6       76.4      82.7       09.6       93.1      105.3      114.2      123.9      134.6      146.1
-  ovoes                                                                                                                                                                            454.0
Oats of Oatter,, 13%
2. Tbhisottoogi - RoststPrsPot. ISotiso I
Costs - Coostoetioe Costs                                    1469.6    1102.2    1102.2
toosfits   Avoided 1ooavisg Costst St                         169.8      169.0      169.8      169.0      169.8     169.0      169.0      169.0      169.8      169.9      169.8      169.0      169.6
-Vahiols  Op..stiog Cos  3otg                                                        68.8     401.0      436.2      474.9      517.2      563.7      614.6      670.5      231.7     798.9
Rate of Rotor,- 16%
Costs - Co-trotlo- Casts                                     1772.7    1329.5    1329.5
1Se..fit.   Avoided RoaigCosts                                204.9      204.9      204.9      204.9      284.9     204.9      264.9      204.9      204.9      204.9      204.9      204.9      204.9
-Vehiol Oparotios Cost Osotogo                                                      662.4      720.1      783.4     652.7      928.6    1011.9    1403.2    1203.4    1313,2    1425.7
8.olvgg                                                                                                                                                                             2215.9
Rots of Rctor: 21%
Ssotioo III
Costs - Coostottico Costs                                    5181.9    2204.0    2386.2
Osoofits. Avoidod Ropsvio  Costs                              445.2      445.2      445.2      445.2     443.2      445.2      445.2      440.2      445.2      445.2      440.2      4425.2     445.2
V Ohiols Opotitto  Cost So-tses                                                     875.7      948.9    1021.0    1120.6    1218.0    1325.7    1442.7    1570.6    1710.5    1863.6
- Walage                                                                                                                                                                            3977.4
Rote of Rotors 10%
3.  Dsps.oso - Gilisook. Isotiot I
Cocts - Coostrttito Costs                                    1182.1    1182.5
B-.sfite. Avoided Rsp.viog Costs                               72.2       72.2       72.2       72.2       72.2      572.2       72.2       72.2       72.2      72.2       72.2       72.2
V Vhiols Optrti.o Cost SavioRs                                           412.5     447.2      405.2      524.7      572.3      622.1      676.7      736.6      802.2      074.1
-SolvBs                                                                                                                                                                   1182.5
Otto of Rstoro: 23%
Osctioo IT
Costs - Cons.trotiot Costs                                   1768.4    1326.2    1326.5
B ..sfits.  Avoided Repoviog Costs                            307.9      307.9      307.9      307.9      307.0      307.9      502.9     307.9      305.9      307.9      307.9      302.9      307.9
-Vehiolo Opsrstiog Cost Isologs                                                     424.5      440.2     499.4       542.3      589.2     640.6      696.9      758.6      826.2      900.4
- 55-g0                                                                                                                                                                              2210.6
Rots of Rstoro: 18%
4.  KItotsobse  - I.obeot
Costs - Coostrotito Costs                                     853.7      853.6
B.ofts  A-Avided fspoviog Costs                                58.6       58.6       58 .6      58.6       58.6       08.8       58.6       58.6       58.6      58.6       38.6       58.6
-Vehjit Operstiog Cost oviogs                                           138.2      148.8      160.3,    172.R       186.4      201.1     212.1      234.5      253.4      274.0
- lovgR                                                                                                                                                                   853.7
5.  Cilevoi - N.soro
Co Sts - Coostrotto,  Costs                                   991.7      991.7
B-.efits.  Avoided Repaviog Costs                              39.5       59.5       59.5       39.5       39.3       39.5       39.5       39.5       39.5       59.5      39.5        39.5
-Vehicle Ope-stio  Cost Seviogs                                          505.6      518.4      532.3      547.2      563.3      5106       594.9     610.1      626.2      643.2
-Sclvege                                                                                                                                                                   991.7
Rots of Rot-rt: 26%
4.    Preboliegg  - laailso
Co Sts - Coostrotios Costs                                    951.0      951.0
Bc.-fits  A-Avided Repseiog Costs                              72.4       72.4       72.4       72.4       72.4       72.4       72.4       72.4       72.4      72.4        72.4       72.4
-Vehicle Operstiog Cost S-vioRs                                          417.9      455.1      495.9      040.6      5R9.o      642.4      702.5      763.2     838.5       916.3
-Solvses                                                                                                                                                                    951.0
Rots of Rotors: 29%
7.  3lsr -  Boodosso
Costs   Cosstrutlo  Costs                                     784.8      784.8
BRe.fits  A-Avidsd Rpa*viog Costs                              54.6       56.6       54.6       54.6       54.6       54.6       54.6       54.6       54.6       04.6       54.6       54.6
- Oslols Oprstieg Cost Seviogs                                           243.4      266.6      292.2      320.2      551.0      584.9      422.1      463.0      307.9      557.3
-' RIeaS.                                                                                                                                                                   784.8
Rote of Rotors: 22%
80TE:  Cosstrootios costs exlods o.Ssts of feasibIlity studies ad detailed seBisserteg Sot ioclod  sopsoisioo, r4bt-of-.y sod physiesi coeti.sgaees .  The  osk costs of
fesibiltty ad detailed -sgioseriog .64h ser  sot iol,dsd -deda  oooetrootis costs, Sce rsl.tivly small eRd thsrsfore hav  little sffsot so the rates of retam  csols-utcd
M.srh 1976



ANNEX 4
iPage 1 of 5
INDONESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consultant Services Required for the Project
1.  Assistance to Regional Road Betterment Offices
In addition to the consulting staff to be engaged for the
Betterment Offices as indicated below, the DGH will initially assign the
following staff from its own organization.
Numbers of DGH Staff
Medan   Palembang   Bandung   Surabaya
Chief of Office             1         1           1          1
Administration
Secretary                 1         1           1          1
Treasurer                 1         1           1          1
Assistants                6        f4           6          6
Design Section
Chief of Section          1         1           1          1
Engineers                 2         2           2          2
Supervision Section
Chief of Section          1         -           1          1
Engineers                 2         -           2          2
Supervision on Site
Project Officer           6         -           3          4
Technical Staff          12         -           6          8
Description:
(a) Construction supervision of about 1,050 km of roads included
in Part A and Part B of the Project, located on the islands
of Java, Bali and Sumatera. These supervision works will be
carried out by four DGH Regionai Road Betterment Offices, i.e.,
in Medan, Palembang, Bandung andA Surabaya.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
Total estimated man-months of required professional staff
are:
Medan   Palembang   Bandung   Surabaya
Foreign staff   335         -         193         280
Indonesian
staff        1,530         -       1,230       1,282
(b) Sufficiency engineering and preliminary engineering works
to support the screening consultants in their screening-
feasibility analyses. A total of 4,500 km of road improve-
ments in Sumatera, Bali and Java included in the screening-
feasibility studies will be supported by sufficiency and
preliminary engineering carried out in the Regional Road
Betterment Offices.
Total estimated man-months of required professional staff
are:
Medan   Palembang   Bandung   Surabaya
Foreign staff    68         46          30        46
Indonesian
staff           184       125          80       125
(c)  Detailed engineering of 4,100km of road improvements on
Java, Bali and Sumatera, selected out of the total 4,500 km
of roads identified by the screening consultants. These
engineering works will be based upon design criteria for-
mulated during feasibility analyses by the DGH assisted by
the screening-feasibility consultants. The completed
detailed engineering work will be reviewed by DGH and the
screening-feasibility consultant to ensure consistency
among the four regional offices.
The estimated total man-months of required professional
staff are:
Medan   Palembang   Bandung   Surabaya
Foreign staff    180       137           90       137
Indonesian
staff           560       373          247       373
(d)  Technical assistance to the DPUPs for betterment works
carried out by the DPUPs, estimated to total 32 foreign
professional staff man-months and 48 Indonesian professional
staff man-months for each region.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
2.   Screening and Design Review Works
Description:
(a) Screening-feasibility studies of 7,000 km of roads to be
carried out by DGH assisted by consultants. Roughly 4,500
km of these 7,000 km of roads are located on the islands of
Java, Bali and Sumatra, and another 2,500 km elsewhere in
Indonesia.  Screening-feasibility studies for the 4,500 km
of roads will be based on sufficiency and preliminary
engineering carried out by the regional offices and for the
remaining 2,500 km of roads located elsewhere in Indonesia
on sufficiency and preliminary engineering carried out by
DGH. The screening-feasiblity consultants attached to DGH
will assist in defining the design criteria used in the
detailed engineering carried out in the regional offices.
(b) Review of detailed engineering of about 4,100 km of roads
carried out by the regional offices to ensure consistency
of the design criteria used, and updating of feasibility
studies on the basis of cost estimates derived from detailed
engineering.
The estimated total man-months of required professional staff are 120
man-months of foreign staff and 130 man-months of Indonesian staff.
3.   Highway Legislation and Related Matters
Review the administration and enforcement of the Indonesian legis-
lation related to highways, and determine the requirements of and draft
a program for the development of the legal section within the secretariat
of DGH.
Total estimated man-months of required professional staff are 18 man-months
of foreign staff and 36 man-months of Indonesian staff.
4.   Highway Vehicle Weights and Dimensions and Road User Charges
(a) Development of appropriate limits of vehicles weights and
dimensions.
(b) A study of road user charges to determine the financial
contributions to be made by the various classes of vehicles
towards the costs of road construction and maintenance,
and the development of recommendations on the levels and
structure of such charges.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
Total estimated man-months required for professional staff
are 24 man-months of foreign staff and 72 man-months of
Indonesian staff.
5.   Monitoring
(a)  The monitoring function shall include expediting and evaluating
of reports on selected activities of DGH, including reports pre-
pared by consultants employed under the Fourth Highway Project,
compiling summaries and abstracts of these reports, including
highlights of major problems which have been encountered and
suggestions for possible remedial actions.
(b)  The monitoring function shall be carried out so as to provide
a separate report on the activities of the consultants employed
under the Fourth Highway Project; the monitoring consultant
is to countersign all reports produced by the monitoring group
on these consultants.
Total estimated man-months required for professional staff are
45-90 man-months of foreign staff and 336 man-months of
Indonesian staff.
6.   Construction Supervision of Road in North Sulawesi, Inobonto -
Ko'tamobagu
Supervisory Services - Description of Services:
Assistance to DGH in:
(a)  Arranging and conducting a pre-bid conference.
(b)  Evaluating the tenders received from contractors and
the award of a construction contract.
(c)  Providing consulting supervisory services to ensure that
all required road construction contracts are properly
executed and completed.
The total estimated man-months required for professional staff
for the supervisory services for the Inobonto-Kotamobagu road
are 85 man-months of foreign staff and 195 man-months of Indonesian
staff.
7.   Detailed Engineering of Jakarta-Cikampek Road
Detailed engineering of such multi-lane highway of about 70 km connect-
ing Cikampek with Jakarta as the Government and the Bank shall agree to be
technically and economically feasible.



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
The total estimated man-months of professional staff are 150 man-months of
foreign staff and 200 man-months of Indonesian staff.
8.   Management Consultant Services
Management consultant services to DGH:
to assist DGH's management in dealing with specific operational
issues and tasks in areas identified by DGH as being of
particular importance to the management of Indonesia's highway
activities, such as program control management, manpower man-
agement, training program management, construction management,
maintenance management, analyses of the DPUPs, the collection
of highway statistics, and the development of the highway
construction and consulting industries.
It is estimated that 126 man-months of foreign professional staff
will be required.



ANNEX 5
INDONIESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
List of Equipment to be Procured 1/
In US$
Items                                               No.        Total Cost
A. DGH Training Program:
(i) Vehicles (four-wheel drive; minibus;
station wagon)                                      40         1422,000
(ii)  Slide projectors and ancillary equipment             200         133,000
(iii)  Office equipment                                                  25,000
300,000
B. DGH Traffic Data Improvement Program 2/
(i)  Traffic counters and ancillary equipment              220        168,000
(ii) Vehicles (four-wheel drive; mini-bus;
station wagon)                                      12          52,000
(iii)  Data processing equipment                                         32,000
252,000
C.  Contingencies for A and B                                              48,ooo
Total       700,000
1/ To be procured and financed by DGH.
2/ Intended to equip 10 traffic counting patrols.
March 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Costs and Beneficiaries of Project
Economic Costs
1.        The analyses were based on costs and benefits calculated by the
consultants without inclusion of indirect taxes. The consultants made no
other adjustments for economic prices of resources. The consultants com-
puted vehicle operating costs only for Java and used them for projects
throughout Indonesia. Although there are considerable differences in
wage rates in various parts of Indonesia, these have only a marginal
effect on total costs and the consultants' assumption of uniform vehicle
operating costs therefore does not cause a significant distortion. Never-
theless, further studies are under way to determine regional variations
more precisely.
2.        While fuel prices have recently been raised at pumps in Indonesia
to about the equivalent of USi5 per I for diesel oil and USJ15 for gasoline,
they remain low in relation to world prices (see para 2.11 in Chapter II
of main report). If vehicle operating costs were computed with a more
realistic fuel price, they might rise from 5 to 10%. While this would
increase vehicle operating cost savings, a corresponding increase would be
applicable on the construction cost side which also includes a fuel element.
The effect on the ERR of adjusting fuel prices would be negligible.
3.        The price of labor is significant for the analysis, primarily in
computation of construction costs of the project. The labor situation var-
ies considerably among the islands, with labor shortages and markedly higher
wages characterizing the outer islands. Java is reported to have sizeable
numbers of unemployed, though some only seasonally, and the massive scale
of the Betterment Program will no doubt generate additional jobs and pro-
vide new work for unemployed persons. The unskilled labor cost component
of road works in Java under the project is estimated at about 10% and Rp 400
million worth of road construction on that island are estimated to provide
up to 500 man-years of unskilled work at a rate of Rp 320 per day. If it
is assumed that unskilled labor employed on road works had an opportunity
cost of one half this wage, construction costs would be reduced by about
5% and the ERR increased slightly. The employment effect of the Betterment
Program thus is positive and increases its economic attractiveness.
Beneficiaries of the Project
4.        The largest single beneficiary of the project is the Government
itself which stands to gain large savings by avoiding the costs of frequent



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
repavings and thereby freeing funds for other high priority investments in
the economy. Reduced vehicle operating costs for commercial vehicles will
be shared by the operators and users of these vehicles. Although the Gov-
ernment regulates the operation of all commercial vehicles, regulations are
relatively more stringent for buses than for trucks, minibuses and similar
small vehicles. Vehicle operating cost savings are thus more likely to be
passed on to users in the competitive sectors (trucks and small passenger
for hire vehicles) than for buses. However, buses represent in most cases
a rather small part of total traffic. As already noted, purely private
car traffic is much less than the number of "cars" listed in the traffic
statistics. While private cars inevitably will share in the lower oper-
ating costs produced by the project, the Government's taxing policy is
attempting to dampen undue expansion of the number of these vehicles.
Primarily because of high taxes, small to medium-sized cars are selling
for the equivalent of US$10,000, or more than twice their world market
prices. Brisk sales at these prices indicate a continuing large pent-up
demand for cars in Indonesia. There may be scope for further general meas-
ures to discourage the spread of private cars and to ensure a more desirable
use of highway facilities and more equitable distribution of the benefits
of improving roads. However, on the whole, the proposed project does not
unduly favor private automobile owners: commercial vehicles in all cases
represent a substantial part of traffic flow and on sections where cars
predominate, vehicle operating cost reductions resulting from the improve-
ments, while substantial in aggregate, represent only a small benefit to
individual cars.
March 1976



Table 1
INDONESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Public Highway Network 1/
(December 31, 1971)
km
By Reiion % of National                         National  Provincial  District
Region                (km )        Area          Province           Highways   Highways       Roads       Total
Java                  132,000         7          Jakarta                145        213
West Java             624       1,828       4,309
Central Java          409       1,801       6,682
Jogjakarta             32         113          846
East Java             549       2,714       6,863
1,759      6,669       18,700      27,128
Sumatera              474,000        25          Aceh                   489       1,331       3,544
North Sumatera        794       2,389       3,535
West Sumatera         631       1,015        1,889
Riau                   95         964          836
Jambi                 433         574          614
South Sumatera        662       2,617        2,547
Bengkulu               84         634        1,309
Lampung               245         637        1,089
3,433     10,161       15,363      28,957
Kalimantan            539,000        28          West Kalimantan        452         932          572
Central Kalimantan   115           76           55
South Kalimantan      285         543        1,797
East Kalimantan       335         322           72
1,187      1,873        2,496       5,556
Sulawesi              189,000        10           North Sulawesi        723         415        2,174
Central Sulawesi      592         563        1,570
South Sulawesi        582       1,651       4,200
South-East Sulawesi  173          239        1.619
2,070      2,868        9,563      14,501
The Principal
Smaller Islands        94,000         5           Bali                  389         337        1,018
West Nusa Tenggara   486          395          971
East Nusa Tenggara 1,227        1,530        2,000
Maluku                 77         518          376
2,179      2,780        4,365       9,324
West Irian            422,000        22           West Irian            -           115          683         798
(Indonesia New
Guinea)             Total                                            10,628      24,466       51,170     86,264
1/ The Directorate General of Highways is currently making a detailed inventory of roads
which w'll provide up-to-date information on length of national and provincial roads.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics
March 1976



INDCtNESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Public Highway Network - Trpe of Surface
(December 31, 1971)
National               Provincial                  District
Highways                Highways                    Roads                Total
Type of Surface     km                   km                            km                   km
Paved             5,628     53.0        9,861          40.3            n.a.       _        n.a.        _
Unpaved             -         -           -               -            n.a.       -         n.a.       _
Gravel            2,980      28.0       7,807          31.9            n.a.       _         n.a.       _
Earth             2,020      19.0       6,798           27.8           n.a.       _         n.a.       _
TOTAL         10. 628    100.0      24.466         100.0                                86,264
Note: The Directorate General of Highways is currently making a detailed inventory of all roads which will
provide up-to-date information on surface types for all national and provincial roads.
Source: Directorate General of Highways
March 1976
1!



Table 3
INDONESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Public Highway Network - Axle Load-Carrying Capacity
Design         National            Provincial
Axle-Load       Highways             Highways
Class       (m  tons)          (km)      % about   (km)        % about
I             7.00               70        1         50
II             5.00            1,230       12      1,250          5
III & below     3.50            90328       88    23,166          95
Total                       10628                   66        100
Source: Directorate General of Highways
Note: The Directorate General of Highways is currently making a detailed inventory of
roads which will provide more information on condition of pavement structure and
of bridges on national and provincial networks.
March 1976



INDONESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
DGH Geometric Design Standards 1/
Primary Highways                                             Secondary Highways                                                 Feeder Roads
II A                                                           II B                            11 c                          III
Moun-                           Moun-                          Moun-                            Moun-                           Moun-
Terrain                                Flat    Rolling   tainous        Flat   Rolling   tainous        Flat   Rolling   tainous        Flat   Rolling   tainous        Flat   RollinR   tainous
Average Daily Traffic
(A!DT) in Passanget Car Units -           . 20,090-                       6,000-20,000                    1,500-8,000                       <2,000                          (1,000
Design Speed (km/h)                     120       100         80           100     80         60           80      60         40           60       40        30           60      40         30
Minimum Right of Way (m)                 60        60         60            40     40         40           30      30         30           30       30        30           20      20         20
Pavement Width (m)                        Minimum 4x3.75                     2x3.50 or 4x3.50                     2x3.50                           2x3.00                      3.50-6.00 /3
Minimum Median Width (m)                           10                             1.5 /2                          ---                               ---
Shoulder Width (m)                     3.50      3.00      3.00          3.00   2.50        2.50        3.00    2.50        2.50        2.50      1.50      1.00             1.50-2.50 /3
Pavement Cross Slope                               2%                              2%                              2%                               3%                             4Z
Shoulder Cross slope                               47                              4%                              6%                               67                             6%
Surfacing                                  Asphaltic Concrete (AC)                 AC                              4/                               4/                             4/
(hot mix)
Maximum Superelevation                            10%                             107.                            10%                              10%                            10%
Minimum Horizontal Radius (m)            560      350        210           350    210        115          210     115         50          115       50        30          115      50         30
Maximum Grade                            3%        57         6%            4%     6%         7%           5Z      77         8%           6%       8%       10%           6%      8%        127
1/ Pavement structure is designed in accordance with DGH's "A Guide for Pavement Design", 1974, 04/PD/EM, and for a design life of about ten years,
unless another design life would be warranted.  Bridges are designed in accordance with DGH's "Standard Loading Specification for Highway Bridges", 01/1969.
2/ Only for 4-lane highways.
3/ According to condition.
4/ Surfacing selected can vary from single bituminous surface treatment to asphaltic concrete on the basis of economic considerations.
Generally roads with the above design standards can be varied flexibly to suit special conditions of traffic, land use or terrain.
Source: Directorate General of Highways
March 1976



Table 5
INDONESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle. Registered, L.961-1974 /1
Total
2/ Motorized
Year      Cars        Trucks      Buses      4-Wheel      Motorcycles      Vehicles
1961     103,254      75,488     17,855      196,627            n.a.          n.a.
1962     128,336     69,738      18,646      216,720        172,417         389,137
1963     136,618      77,761     17,336      231,715        196,586         428,301
1964     157,473      83,271     19,541      260,290        220,953         481,243
1965     166,845      84,647     18,414      269,906       235,413          505,319
1966     179,494      92,891     19,584      291,969        281,779          573,748
1967     184,954      94,892     18,840      298,686        287,522         586,208
1968     201,743      93,417     19,612      314,772       308,404          623,176
1969     212,124      95,660     20,497      318,281U       336,597         664,878
1970     238,924    102,975      23,541      365,440       440,005           805,445
1971     256,988    112,877      22,562      392,427        510,764         903,191
1972     277,210    131,175      26,488      434,873        615,220        1,050,093
1973     307,739    144,060      30,368      482,167        720,056       1,202,233
1974     337,789    166,457      31,439      535,685        944,734       1,480,419
1/ Includes all registered vehicles, including non-operational ones, except
military or diplomatic vehicles.
2/ Includes motorcycles, motor scootersiaizd motorized bicycles.
Source:  Directorate of Traffic, Indonesian Police
March 1976



Table 6
INDONESIA
F(XJRTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registrations -
Geographic Distribution, 1973 A
Total
Motorized
Area               Cars        Buses      Trucks    Motorcycles /2       Vehicles
Java and Madura        228,138      12,418       86,938      492,081            822,575
West                39,780       2,544      18,931        74,973           136,228
East                45,923       2,452      23,132       123,354           194,861
Other Areas        142,435     10,422       44,875       293,754           491,4&86
Sumatera                55,397      11,137       36,288      141,403            244,225
North               30,137       3,945      11,974        78,173           124,229
West                 3,360       1,264        3,421        9,089            17,134
Other Areas         21,900      5,928       20,893        54,141           102,862
Bali                     2,774         966        2,718         5,925           15,383
North and Central
Sulawesi                 2,873         532        2,162         7,993            13,560
.Other Areas             17,531       1,983      15,146        63,931            98.591
Total   306,713      30,036      143,252       71_733         1,194,324
/1  Includes all registered vehicles, including non-operational ones,
except military or diplomatic vehicles.
/2  Includes motorcycles, motor scooters and motorised bicycles.
Source:  Central Bureau of Statistics
Miarch 1976



Table 7
INDONESIA
FOURTE HIGHWAY PROJECT
Budget Su;ry  of Directorate General of Highways
(Rp '000)
1969-70         1970-71        1971-72         1972-73        1973-74       1974-75
1.  ROUTINE
Administration (Head Office)           166,248         229,000          245,837        316,086        302,701        661,534
Engineering                               -               -               -               -             -
Upgrading/New Construction                -               -               -               -             -
Rehabilitation                            -               -               -               -             -
Maintenance 1/                          206,152        452,000          450,000         450,000       609,269        520,681
Handling Cost Equipment and
Materials Ex. Project Aid,
Workshop, and Other Facilities          -               -               -                      -              -
Technical Support Services, IDA           -               -               -               -             -
Asphalt Purchases                         -               -               -               -             -
TOTAL                               372.400         681.000         695.837         766,086       911 970     1.182.215
2.  DEVELOPMENT 2/
Administration (Head Office)              -               -               -               -             -
Engineering                             607,000       1,177,882         675,000         790,000       979,776      3,368,272
Upgrading/New Construction            6,592,814       6,189,100       7,667,500      12,383,500   13,317,145    32,995,455
Rehabilitation                        2,636,776       2,672,000       2,728,500       3,926,500    2,293,928       8,784,866
Maintenance  V                            -           1,534,060       4,370,000       3,400,000    2,574,151       1,858,060
Handling Cost Equipment and
Materials Ex. Project Aid,
Workshop and Other Facilities         541,000       2,049,958       1,415,000         500,000    2,120,742       7,490,145
Technical Support Services, IDA           -             152,000         190,000         160,000        69,000        143,417
Asphalt Purchases                         -               -                -.         2, .000    4.652,258         4.209,785
TOTAL                            10.377.390      13,775.000      17,046.000      23.160.000: 25,998,000    58,850.000
3.  TOTAL (1 + 2)
Administration (Head Office)            166,248         229,000         245,837         316,086       302,701        661,534
Engineering                             607,000       1,177,882         675,000         790,000       979,776      3,368,272
Upgrading/New Construction            6,592,614       6,189,100       7,667,503      12,383,500   13,317,145    32,995,455
Rehabilitation                        2,636,776       2,672,000       2,728,500       3,926,500    2,293,928       8,784,866
Maintenance 2                           206,152       1,986,060       4,820,000       3,850,000    3,183,420       2,378,741
Handling Cost Equipment and
Materials Ex. Project Aid,
Workshop, and-Other Facilites         541,000       2,049,958       1,415,000         500,000    2,120,742       7,490,145
Technical Support Services, IDA           -             152,000         190,000         160,000        60,000        143,417
Asphalt Purchases                          -               -                -         2.000.000    4.65258         4,209.785
TOTAL                            10,749.790      14.456.000      17.741.837      23.926.086   26.909.970    6
1/  Because of its importance, maintenance of roads is charged mostly to Development Budget
2/ Includes Administration Costs of Projects
Source: Directorate General of Highways
March 1976



Table 8
INDONESIA
FOURTT HIONWAY PROJECT
Initial Imelemsntation Schedul 1/
Project Ele-ents                                                                        Key Actions                                            Date for Completing Key Actions
Proposed for Bank Financing
A. Construction
I.  First 550 Km Road Package
1.   adang-Sasahtmbang                                                      Notice to Proceed                                                    April 15, 1976
2.  Tebitgtinggi-RAntaupr.pat                                                Opening Bid.                                                        April 15, 1976
3. Denp.a.r-Cili-mnuk                                                       A.ard Contract                                                       April 15, 1976
4. Kotamobag.-lonbonto                                                      Notice to Proceed                                                    April 15, 1976
5.  Cileycni-Nsgrmg                                                          Invite Bids                                                         April 15, 1976
6.  Probolirggo-Lomajang                                                    Award Contrect                                                       April 15, 1976
7.  Jember-Bondeoeo.                                                        Award Contract                                                       April 15, 1976
II.  Seond 550 KR  Road Package,
1.  Updating of Contractor Prqusalifio.tioo                                      March 15, 1976
2.  Conplete Feasibility Studios                                                 December 1975-April 1976
3.  Bank Review cod Cocm,ents on 2                                               December 1975-May 1976
4.  Complete Detailed Engineering                                                Dccember 1975-June 1976
5.  Bank Cosnents on 4                                                           December 1975-July 1976
6.  Invite Bids                                                                  December 1975-August 1976
7.  Goernmsent and Baek Review of Bidding
ResuIts and Bank Decision on, Including
Particul-r Road Sections in Project                                          April 1976-December 1976
B. Services of Consultants:
1. For DGB Regional Betterment Offices 2/,
(comprising preliminary engineering of 4,500 kIo in
Jnve, Sumitera and Bali in support of B(IV), detailed
engineering of 4,100 km selected from the foregoing
4,500 k, and cocntruction supervision of A)
1.  In Medan (Sunatera)                                                     Sign Contract                                                        April 1, 1976
2.  Sc P1embang (S-metera)                                                   Invite Proposals                                                    March 1, 1976
3.  In Bandung (J."s)                                                        Invite Proposals                                                    Narch 1, 1976
4.  In Sucaboy  (Jav.)                                                       Sign Contract                                                       April 1, 1976
I.  For Suprvision of Road in A(1)(4)                                             Sign Contract                                                        April 1, 1976
I.  For Sc-eening-F  asibility Studies of 7,000 Rn                                 Sign Contrct                                                         April 1, 1976
at SD  Seadquarters                                                          DGH Counterperto in Place                                           May 15, 1976
IV. For Mana.ement Activities at DGO Readda-rters
1.  Activities in General                                                    Sign Contract                                                       April 1, 1976
DGH Counterparts in Place                                           May 15, 1976
2. DSN Studins
(a)  Survcy of Provincial Public                                             Initiate 3/                                                     May 31, 1976
Works Departments (DPUP's)                                              Complet                                                         Jcn  30, 1977
(b)  Epansion and Strengthening of Domestic                                  Initiate 3/                                                     May 31, 1976
Consulting and Construction Industries                                 Complete                                                         November 30. 1976
(c)  Vchicl Weights and Dimensions                                           Initite 4/                                                      May 31, 1976
and Road User Charges 5/                                               Copeplte                                                         Octobnr 31, 1977
(d)  Revi-t   of Highway l.ws 5/                                             Initiate 4/                                                     May 31, 1976
Complete                                                        Play 31, 1977
3. Other Activitie., -eg.
(a)  Budget Control and Management                         Recoenendation for Improved Reporting Systom                                      Decehbe- 31, 1976
(b)  Construction Management                               Prepare Initial Draft of Standard Contract Docunents                              Snpte=ber 30, 1976
(c)  Training Programs                                     Formulate Long-Range Training Progra=r                                            D cem.ber 31, 1976
V.  For Monitoring Project Implementation                                        Sign Contract                                                        April 1, 1976
Not Proposed for Bank Financing
A.  Preliminary Engineerirg for 2.500 Rn                                              Assign=ent of DGO  Staff                                            April 1, 1976
(in suppcrt of studies in III, arranged by DGH)
B.  Detailed Engineering of 1.500 KC
(resulting from scceeming-fessibility studies under
III outside of Su=mtera, Java and Bali, arranged by DON)                         DGH Staff Cone-encs Work                                             July 15, 1976
C.  Nighway Planning Improvement                                                      Signatur  of UNDP Agreeesnt                                         April 1, 1976
Acquisition of Traffic Counting Equip.emt                           Deceaber 31, 1976
S. DGH Training Progras                                                  Completion of Initial  Target Training Courses                                   D heber 31, 1976
Acquisition of Training Equipeet                                                  Motch 31, 1977
11  Attached to this table ar  two typical timehedules  h-nig estimted time to complete key steps for procuring (A) Consultant services; and (B) Construction contractorn.
2/  DGO  personnel for each Regional Office era to be selected and assigned by time notice to proceed hbc  been iasued to each Regional Consultnt.
3/ Including assigm-ent of DGH study personnel previously selected.
4/  Including as.igsoent of DGd counterparts previously selected.
5/ Largely carried out by the Management Consult-nt in H(IV).
Source:  Bank staff and DGH
March 1976



Table 8
Attachment
INDONESIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
A. Typical Time Schedule for Procuring Consultant Services
From invitation issued to an agreed short list of selected consultants.
Days
1.  Receive proposals.                                                            42
2.  Evaluate proposals and report                                                 21
3.  Approval of DGH procurement committee and IBRD concurrence                    30
4.  Invite consultant for negotiations                                             10
5.  Complete contract negotiations and prepare initialled draft contract           14
6.  Approval of Government agencies and IBRD concurrence                           28
7.  Arrangements for and signing contract                                          7
8. Issuance of notice to proceed                                                   4
9.  Consultants mobilization                                                      42
Total          198
B. Typical Time Schedule for Procuring Construction Contractor
From invitations to bid issued to prequalified contractors.
Days
1.  Receive bids from contractor                                                 108 (maximum)
2.  Open bids, evaluate and report                                                 21
3.  Approval of DGH procurement committee and IBRD concurrence                     30
4.  Issue notice of award                                                           7
5.  Preparation of contract and signing                                            15
6.  Issuance of notice to proceed                                                  30
Total         211
March 1976



Table 9
INDONESIA
FOURTH HIGhWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                        Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                               at End of Quarter
(US$000)
1975/76
June 30, 1976                                                   1,000
1 976/77
September 30, 1976                                              2,900
December 31 , 1976                                              7,200
March 31, 1977                                                 13,400
June 30, 1977                                                  20,000
1 977/78
September 30, 1977                                             30,200
December 31, 1977                                             41,800
March 31, 1978                                                 53,500
June 30, 1978                                                 65,200
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                             76,000
December 30, 1978                                              86,300
March 31, 1979                                                 96,800
June 30, 1979                                                107,200
1 979/1980
September 30, 1979                                           115,000
December 30, 1979                                            121,000
March 31, 1980                                               125,000
June 30, 1960                                                128,000
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                           130,000
Source: Government/Bank Estimate
March 1976






AT ARAISAL OF A FOURTH HI Y  PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE CENTRAL AND PROVIIAL WORKE ORGAHZATI'OS
IN RE.ATION TO HIGWAY ADINIETRATION
IMNIVER  FU        I;                                                                                                                                  I
DIRECTOR~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ OFR AY l                                                                       NtCO
SPRITOTE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .AT.
ERMTJC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~               --T   TM
.I
RC OIRRAT TODT                I   S   IEUBATEL                                           SOB P
U"COR SFDRCOR OIRCTORBlESYO UlCORA  frl*                                                                                           C         A MlTE  AE  OF PE
I. .                                                                           'r                                     -                                          ,_                                   ,.Z
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
H} . 1R} ..1 H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o'".                                                                    E         I        F ,L-
AL FOTTURT    . RC I  ... 11, DDRIWTl  O c
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMA
g ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~2 _   _   0  GNMF   _ __ _   A "ON    PNM.                M FWS ^V  RSE.GKLU W^T FCET.._   __                                   IADVI-E TO DuSl
| nrKK " K 97E | | ZeT7fR111MEVT 11 
ETTE-INT. I 1ORI - E.MCCUTC T..--G CE.T-^ 00OV-fRCN
IlTREN  INRE   ICUE  HOUH"-INIAl -E~.TS






96                        960                        1a0P               THAILAND                                                PHILIPPINES
The boundaries shown on this map do not  r                          BRUNEI                             PROJECT LOCATIONS
imply endorsement or acceptance by the                        ,          
World Bank end rts affitates.L AL    y  S I P 
_Lhoksmaun-%I .ING    RE1]
-          B         'rue 't POKALIMANTAN
SULAWESI
A                                   ~~~~~~~~~~IRIAN JAYA1
AREA OF MAP   F~ V            ~    BL
40                  BleulabhS  angkajeren   Tanjungpurn
FLORES           "TIMOR
X    utacanQ. Binjail 
KUALA
Tapektunnt                                Kiswen JPenatangQmapOLUMPUR
i kabantiii;eianl             =
' .dialn<   6Prapat -PoIa  'f''   'MALAYSIA
-LX .... >E,< L4ibuharbilik  ............... S.0>,',   
20                                                   n,Tarutns  RantauproPa                                                                                           20
'>\\  *%{JA./I#4 lt6.flflo.:   !~~~~~~~~~                     ;~
-fSIn'     Gf PORE    -
'-              J Jtanmnran        ..                  ''  J          - i-m fnm,
Pa ',  N\  .;u Pakanbaru
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~atuItn -aspuu.    - -                                                                  L ,a5  eW,-  .
Oe_' SikapingS                                                                      klprigc%          2
0 : ' > ,^>= ~~~~~~~~~~~~Bukiningz                                                 Raaubi  ,engat -  '--.
2 ,r X E ~~~~~~inPa                                            Muarakuthpe 0 
f ..... 9 f; t sSarulanUn               2rsik.r
APPRAISAL OF
A  FOURTH HIGHWAY  PROJECT  ,Tkau -aaembang
SUMATERA                                                  u-u                                 ni
40          -            NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                           40
PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS                                                                          .            ar,ura
RAILWAYS                                                                                                        ra    Mengoa
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION-SECOND PROJECT (CR. 260IND)
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION-FOURTH PROJECT                                                                        Kn
PROViNCiAL BOUNDARIES                                                                           Kui
- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                  . aaqunq
60                                                                           .                                                                          -.; 6'
o           0o0        200          300
I       0                            1JAVA
KILOMET:ERS                                                 ....
,0       5        100       10        2!                                                                                                          |
MILES
104 0X  *o2   tmo        *"          c
960         95~~~~~~~~~~~~               140lop          ?0                       1029                                      og 0           J:06






IBRD-11747
/~~~~~~~O                        ;       ,                 1          9         0                             lot                           lit                             IliC                                                                 ,o      i       ::-_sIG A$l0%l0T $t7G
IN DO N ES IA                                                                                         10 ,
o (&sziav;vr-2CL                               0          ; ;;;J: iV  APPRAISAL OFA FOURTH  HIGHWAYiPROJECT   
JAVA  AND BALI                                                                                         M~u,Sr/
.  .:  ::                        jav                         L!                t: t=  :    A  0;  ';:    i  : ;Qs 7-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 t-f 
NATIIOAL HIGHWAYS
PIHIOV,NCIAIAL HIHWAYS                                                                                  P       S.HHGOH, 
{                                                      -.---l---H-- $~~~~~~~ ~      ~~~~~AILWAYOOIITIOMJIT0                                                                                    
POIECT CQNSTPUoIl:TWN_ FITH PR
T0,iI3ngkol0ooog                                                                                       FG~- ASHlII STUDY MID DEtAILFED ENHINEERIO 9ondHowHOI
- OSOjOHO                                                                  P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOV'INCIAL 8ODOOIAfID e$
VA      L         r stv                      0                   i                               -  -  - NTtERNATIDAL *   NDAIRtES                      t                                                                                              DiIl'OoO L
00 0;0 Gf V *'~~~~~~~~~~,nUO>    on d                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G,  0 ;;09'0'i
0  0 0    a S        j U 5                                       t   X    2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >                                                                    = ~sa 
0~ ~~~~~~OIIgT,go q                                                           IIfHOI _ogoo                                                                                                                                                                        K10l,9k1H 110/%_   = -l- F ;;,PpXl3
$OlSl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OUOAU D)'    '_   
d      oo             Doobo iCHIlIAI0 :                                                                                                                                                                                                              g
OH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H'~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
f   t    _  dAVs  s>Lf   ,   V ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ODO                                                                                              0000,DHO
SHAATRA rY fAHfli
l~~o  OHIO                    (**~~~~~~p0*~~~og                                     -       SOHIHI, -. JDCV~~~~~~OGA HRT'A  .                         DlbYk-op                                                       H
THAH.O        'oc  PIM                                                                                                                                         II' LTOb                                                                          o,~1HHH.I
-0-T11
HULA Opl
11011           ,.0                -~~~~.2    --    A'






I - '  *H41  I                                     PR0ECT  OCATLS                                 I cQ                                        12430'                                        12S
r e   _    Se:Xt6 C*atnsERiINCt                                                                                                                                            4~~~~~~~~~~~461243D
X ,<.<    f   Se a        _     r                            /OoesKIe~~~~~ ,f~    Ocel an                                                            
% _J'<, 'e n -SINI APY, ORE);-i
-a        ,          s =, <'.  KALIMANTAN            ,.                                                 ,  rL.ka e
5RIAN JAYA
., .  AKJRTA                                                                                                                                                                                                       I' '  pOnOt30'
_     JAVA  -1    2'k ) :-o-       ot~s    -                                                                                                            bAO<oml                         ls;                13
T hn  b m ,d e * c  chcccy On  F*P  ,, W   ,Ic    ,BE
7XB, b-rt-    v/    ~ dr.                                                                                                                                                    \I                   /K
b.&c n.dnOn  c apcnby I
WcdflcaknadibcfAMrn ~~~~~                                  ~~                      ~,di                                                   )       o n        i m
-~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~ %-                                                                                    '''' - -  -'                   ''' o'of'
5                        -.  Kowitu. a.   /             v |      ;  , jtvf -1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n KoondangO Bcck  0                                                                                                  }N    
I, -co,
L-b.t                                                                                                                                                                                   po l HmS
t~~~~~~~.LoLlmboto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D cg on                                                                                .                            .        ..
Z a== S Bo~~~~~~nc~XIond,                                                                                              /-                              _________
-0-30'        L,,rbfoto     Goron,olo    --- Ouuu                                                                                                                                            UtTiNA1t0N                                S 4AAt
0'30J                                                                                                                                                    o '                -     20 2
'MftES
-- ---------  -/-4 ~                      f         -l 0f                              O  m t  t                                       O              20      30       40      50so
ss .. ,. \, - Gi~~~~~~~~f                                                                                                                                    OD 
KtL0ME7tE
12?00'                                       f2r30'                                       124400'1                                                                                  2510(v
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40 -2ne 1,'0 ; 



