CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1236 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Fourth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 15, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "First Project" means the project described in Schedule
2 to the development credit agreemer-t (Highway Project) of June 20,
1969, between the Borrower and the Association, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time;
(b) "Second Project" means the project described in Schedule
2 to the development credit agreement (Second Highway Project) of
June 24, 1971, between the Borrower and the Association, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time;
(c) "'Third Project" means the project described in Schedule
2 to the development credit agreement (Third Highway Project) of
June 1, 1973, between the Borrower and the Association, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time; and


﻿-3-
(d) "DGH" means the Directorate General of Highways in the
Borrower's Department of Public Works and Electric Power.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty
million dollars ($130,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DGH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate highway engineering, administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, fa-
cilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree,
the general design standards for the roads, road sections and
bridges included in Part A and Part B of the Project shall be
those set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall require the contractors carrying out
the construction of the roads and bridges under the Project to de-
sign an appropriate maintenance program for each of such roads or
bridges constructed by them.
(d) The Borrower shall, until the Closing Date, through DGH
review the implementation of its ongoing highway program, including
the Project, at least semi-annually, and shall furnish to the Bank
the results of such review for its comments.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the highway
engineering, procurement, construction supervision, feasibility
and other studies, staff training, and management and operational
development included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-7-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
-       ports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods, works and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the other components
of the Borrower's highway program until 1980, the expenditure of


﻿-8-
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods, works and services fi-
nanced out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction of the roads, road sections and bridges included in
the Project and shall, at the request of the Bank, furnish to
the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related
to the Project.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any ex-
ternal debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make ex-
press provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 10 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that the roads
(including bridges and other road structures) constructed under
the Project or the Second Project or the Third Project or reha-
bilitated under the First Project shall be adequately maintained
and that all necessary repairs thereof shall be made, all in ac-
cordance with appropriate highway engineering and financial
practices; that the funds, equipment, workshop facilities and
other resources required for the purpose shall be provided
promptly as needed; and that the maintenance of every road or
bridge constructed under the Project shall be carried out in


﻿- 11 -
acco-dance with an appropriate maintenance program designed to
meet the specific requirements of such road or bridge.
(b) The Borrower shall continue to take all steps required
to improve the maintenance of its national and provincial roads
(including bridges and other road structures) other than those
referred to in the preceding paragraph in order to reach as soon
as possible in respect of all such roads an adequate level of
maintenance in accordance with appropriate highway engineering
and financial practices.
(c) The Borrower undertakes that all maintenance and repair
works on its national and provincial roads (including bridges and
other road structures) shall be adequately prepared, that the ex-
penditure of the national funds by its Provinces to finance such
works shall be duly monitored and that upon their completion all
such works shall be submitted to a detailed inspection, all in
accordance with appropriate highway engineering, financial and
accounting practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall continue to collect and re-
cord, in accordance with appropriate statistical methods and pro-
cedures, such information concerning highway traffic, highway
construction and highway maintenance costs and other data as
shall be reasonably required for the formulation of a compre-
hensive transport policy and for proper planning of maintenance,
improvements and extensions of its highway system. To that end,
the Borrower shall inter alia carry out an expanded program of
traffic counting including selective counts by vehicle type, and
origin and destination surveys as required.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall periodically review and
modify as necessary its regulations limiting the dimensions and
axle-loads of vehicles as to their consistency with the struc-
tural and geometric design standards of its highway network (in-
cluding its provincial highways), in particular upon completion
of the stud included in Part E of the Project; and the Borrower
shall continue to ensure that such regulations are effe.tively
enforced.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, taking into account the
findings produced by the study included in Part E of the Project,
review the levels and structure of its road user charges and
modify such levels or structure to the extent required to charge
in an equitable manner the costs of construction, betterment and
maintenance of roads to the users of such roads.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional con-
dition to effectiveness within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of
the General Conditions, namely, that the following consultants are
employed by the Borrower and have taken up their respective posts:
(a) the consultants required for the construction supervision
under Part A (1), (2), (4), (5) and (6) of the Project and for en-
gineering under Part C (1) and (2) of the Project;
(b) the consultants required for the construction supervision
under Part A (7) of the Project;
(c) the consultants required for the screening-feasibility
studies under Part C (1) of the Project;
(d) the management consultants required under Parts D, E, F
and G of the Project; and
(e) the consultants required to monitor the activities of
the other consultants required for the Project.
Section 5.02. The date August 13, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is des-
ignated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta                                                      -o
Indonesia
Cable address:
MINFIN
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. S. Kirmani
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works for             38,000,000        60%
Part A of the
Project
(2) Civil works for             38,000,000        60%
Part B of the
Project
(3) Services of consul-         16,000,000        60%
tants and experts
(4) Unallocated                 38,000,000
TOTAL      130,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes 1,vied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan de-
creases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) expenditures on account of construction of road sections
or bridges included in Part B of the Project, unless the Borrower
and the Bank have agreed, taking into account the prices of the
bids received for the civil works required for such construction,
that the construction of such road section or bridge shall be eco-
nomically feasible; road sections or bridges proposed to the Bank
for selection under Part B of the Project pursuant to this para-
graph 3 (b) after December 31, 1976, or such later date as the
Bank may agree, shall not be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of


﻿- 18 -
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated short-
fall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement per-
centage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's on-going highway
program and consists of the following parts:
Part A.   Construction, in accordance with the design standards
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, of the
following roads, including the necessary bridges:
in Sumatra
1.   a road of about 80 km connecting Padang with
the trans-Sumatra highway at Sawahtambang;
2.   a road of about 208 km connecting Tebingtingi
with Rantauprapat;
in West Java
3.   a road of about 22 km connecting Nagreg with
the Bandung-Cirebon national highway at
Cileunyi;
in East Java
4.   a road of about 44 km connecting Lumajang
with Probolinggo;


﻿- 20 -
5.   a road of about 33 km connecting Jember with
Bondowoso;
in Bali
6.   a road of about 122 km connecting Gilimanuk
with Denpasar; and
in North Sulawesi
7.   a road of about 37 km between Kotamobagu
and Inobonto, interconnecting the Duluduo-
Kotamobagu and Inobonto-Kapitu roads.
Part B.   Construction of such road sections including bridges,
with a combined length of about 550 km, as the Borrower
and the Bank shall agree to be technically and economi-
cally feasible.
Part C.   1.   Screening-feasibility studies, together with pre-
liminary engineering, for betterment of about
4,500 km of roads on Sumatra, Java and Bali and
about 2,500 km of roads elsewhere in Indonesia.
2.   Detailed engineering of about 4,100 km of roads
for betterment on Sumatra, Java and Bali, iden-
tified by said screening-feasibility studies.
3.   Detailed engineering of such multi-lane highway
of about 70 km connecting Cikampek with Jakarta
as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree to be
technically and economically feasible.


﻿I
- 21 -
Part D.   Strengthening of DGH's organization by the following
measures:
1.   improvement of DGH's planning activities, in-
cluding, inter alia, a program designed to
improve traffic data collection and analysis;
2.   improvement of selected aspects of DGH's man-
agement, including program budgeting and con-
trol, through evaluation studies and the im-
plementation of an action program agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank;
3.   development of DGH's regional road betterment
offices; and
4.   staff training.
Part E.   1.   A combined study of vehicle weights and dimen-
sions and road user charges to determine the
financial contributions to be made by various
classes of vehicles towards the costs of road
construction and maintenance.
2.   A review of the administration and enforcement
of the Borrower's highway legislation.
Part F.   Strengthening of the provincial public works depart-
ments of the Borrower by:


﻿- 22 -
1.   surveys covering the highway functions of all
provincial public works departments, including,
inter alia, assessments of the current capabil-
ities of those departments to carry out high-
way works, resulting in programs of measures
designed to improve the management and opera-
tions of such functions in each provincial
public works department; and
2.   training of staff working on the highway func-
tions of such departments.
Part G.   Studies designed to produce realistic and practical
recommendations for the development of the highway
engineering and highway construction industries in
Indonesia.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1981                                        1,290,000
November 15, 1981                                  1,345,000
May 15, 1982                                       1,400,000
November 15, 1982                                  1,460,000
May 15, 1983                                        1,525,000
November 15, 1983                                  1,590,000
May 15, 1984                                       1,655,000
November 15, 1984                                  1,725,000
May 15, 1985                                       1,800,000
November 15, 1985                                  1,875,000
May 15, 1986                                       1,955,000
November 15, 1986                                  2,040,000
May 15, 1987                                       2,125,000
November 15, 1987                                  2,215,000
May 15, 1988                                        2,310,000
November 15, 1988                                  2,405,000
May 15, 1989                                       2,510,000
November 15, 1989                                  2,615,000
May 15, 1990                                       2,725,000
November 15, 1990                                  2,845,000
May 15, 1991                                       2,965,000
November 15, 1991                                  3,090,000
May 15, 1992                                       3,220,000
November 15, 1992                                  3,360,000
May 15, 1993                                       3,500,000
November 15, 1993                                  3,650,000
May 15, 1994                                       3,805,000
November 15, 1994                                  3,965,000
May 15, 1995                                       4,135,000
November 15, 1995                                  4,310,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-24-
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1996                                      4,495,000
November 15, 1996                                 4,685,000
May 15, 1997                                      4,885,000
November 15, 1997                                 5,090,000
May 15, 1998                                      5,310,000
November 15, 1998                                 5,535,000
May 15, 1999                                      5,770,000
November 15, 1999                                 6,015,000
May 15, 2000                                      6,270,000
November 15, 2000                                 6,535,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                    7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                        8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Works and services shall be procured under contracts to be
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Bidders for the works included in Part A or Part B of
the Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3
of Part A of the Guidelines.
(b) Bid invitations shall, whenever feasible, be grouped
together in order to attract international competition.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works;
Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (1) or (2) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:


﻿- 27 -
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification apply-
ing also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the information for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies
for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly in-
dicate the preference and the method that will be followed in the
evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractor   ;ligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal
to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under
group (ii) above.
C. Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualifi-
cation is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bid-
ders, together with a statement of their qualifications and, where


﻿- 28 -
applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under
Part B above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be fur-
nished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments: (i) under Part B of the Project, a
copy of the feasibility study and the final design of the road
section or bridge in respect of which bids are to be invited,
and a copy of the appraisal report prepared for such road section
or bridge by DGH on the basis of reliable traffic information and
forecasts, showing, inter alia, the dimensions, unit cost per
kilometer and expected benefits of the road section or bridge;
and (ii) under both Part A and Part B of the Project, the text of
the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding; and the Borrower shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as
the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence be-
fore it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 29 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred
to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 5
Highway Design Standards
Classification              II C                      III
Terrain        Flat Rolling Mountainous Flat Rolling Mountainous
ADT in Passenger
Car Units            K2,000                    (1,000
Design Speeds
(km/h)            60     40       30       60      40       30
Pavement Width
(meters)           6.0    6.0      6.0          3.5-6.0
Shoulder Width
(meters)           2.5     1.5     1.0          1.5-2.5
Surfacing                 1/ 2/                   1/   2/
Minimum Horizontal
Radius (meters) 115       50       30      115     50       30
Maximum Grade (%)    6       8       10        6      8       12
Bridges            In accordance with DGH's "Standard Loading Specifica-
tion for Highway Bridges", 01/1969
1/   Surfacing selected can vary from single bituminous surface treat-
ment to asphaltic concrete on the basis of economic considerations.
2/   Pavement structure is designed in accordance with DGH's "A Guide
for Pavement Design", 1974, 04/PD/EM, and for a design life of
about ten years, unless another design life would be economically
warranted.
NOTE:     The above design standards are those most typical for roads
and bridges included in the Project, although variations
will occur to suit special conditions of traffic, land use
or terrain.


