Report No. PIC4321
Project Name              Kazakstan-Road Transport Restructuring Project
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Transportation
Project ID                KZPA8499
Borrower                  Republic of Kazakstan
Implementing Agency       Department of Automobile Roads - Ministry of
Transport and Communications, 86 Gogol St.,
Aaty, 480091, Republic of Kazakstan, Mr. A.
Yelgonov, Deputy Director,
Tel. No. 7-3272-324769 or 322679;
Fax No. 7-3272-324449 or 322679
Department of Automobile Roads Transport -
Ministry of Transport and Communications, 458
Seifyllin Avenue, Aaty, 480083, Republic of
Kazakstan, Mr. A. Logunov, Director,
Tel. No. 7-3272-391263,
Fax No. 7-3272-3935
Environment Category      B
Date This PID Prepared    September 18, 1996
Projected Appraisal       February 3, 1997
Projected Board Date      July 2, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Road transport is becoming increasingly important to the Kazak
economy, mainly because it is flexible and responsive to customer needs,
and, in many circumstances, fulfills the requirements of a market
economy better and cheaper than other modes of transport. Thus, the
share of road transport in the overall transport market of Kazakstan is
expected to rapidly increase from the current 10t to levels of 30-50w,
comparable to current levels in countries such as Canada and Australia.
Since the main alternative to road transport is rail transport which now
lacks flexibility and time-reliability and is expensive for short and
medium distances, shortcomings in road transport would hamper the
development of market relations and the restructuring of the Kazak
economy.
2.   Yet, Kazakstan's road network is in poor condition and currently
deteriorating fast with considerable negative impact on road transport.
Available data show that only 37T of the about 17,500 km of national
roads are in good condition, a situation similar to that of Russia but
much worse than that of most comparable countries. Other public roads
(regional roads - 70,500 km - and urban roads - 22,500 km) are also in
poor condition although not as bad. There are two main reasons for
this. First, because of acute fiscal constraints, the funding of
roadworks has decreased dramatically from about $800 million per year



prior to 1992 to about $70 million last year. As a result, not even the
daily routine maintenance of the roads can be carried out. Second,
because of the monopolistic organization of the road subsector and the
inadequate implementation practices which both prevailed until recently,
roads were not built and maintained as well as they should have been.
As the previous system only slowly gives way, available resources are
still not used efficiently. In the past few years, however, the
Government has taken some important measures to improve the organization
and management of its road subsector. A Department of Roads (DOR) has
been created in the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) with
adequate functions (including for its new regional branches), while the
road construction and maintenance industry has been split and
corporatized, and is being privatized at a seemingly rapid pace. Yet,
the establishment of new systems and procedures for planning, budgeting,
and implementation of works and the parallel transformation of staff's
attitude and behavior are only now starting. Moreover, despite the
recent creation of a road fund with earmarked resources, it is uncertain
that funding will soon be at an adequate level and this discourages
detailed implementation of the organizational changes.
3.   There are also serious problems with the road transport subsector.
Most of the regulatory framework for the subsector needs change. It
mainly consists of old Soviet regulations on traffic and vehicles which
were conceived for a different political and economic environment and
never clearly adopted by the Republic of Kazakstan. Although measures
have been taken by the Government with assistance from the European
Union (TACIS program) to fill this gap, available resources have not
been sufficient and much remains to be done. One serious consequence is
that at present, trucks' axle loads are not effectively controlled, a
situation that can only hasten the deterioration of road pavements
already weakened by the lack of maintenance. The inadequacy of the
regulatory framework also fosters a climate of uncertainty that hampers
the development of road transport. In addition, it appears to
discourage the import of second hand West European vehicles although
these are important to increase the subsector's efficiency.
4.   Linked with the regulatory vacuum, but also related to many other
factors, are issues with road safety and air pollution. Like most
former socialist countries, Kazakstan has a poor road safety record with
death rates from road accidents four to five times the average rate of
Western European countries. Poor road conditions (with dangerous black
spots and lack of markings and signalization), inadequate vehicle
standards, insufficient enforcement, poor driver behavior, and lack of
information appear to be the major factors.
5.   The road transport subsector is also a major contributor to air
pollution generating over 70t of air pollutants in some major cities,
including Aaty. There are uncertainties with the accuracy of data and
health effects have seldom been quantitatively assessed; however, it
should be a concern that the maximum allowed concentration of some
transport related pollutants is exceeded in most cities of Kazakstan.
Poor fuel quality, the inadequacy of the present vehicle fleet (which
stems in particular from the inadequacy of vehicle standards and
enforcement, as well as poor maintenance practices), lack of traffic
management in urban areas, and poor economic incentives, are the main
- 2 -



reasons of transport related air pollution.
6.   The Government of Kazakstan has felt that, because of the country's
geography and the structure of its economy, transport was a critical
sector. Therefore, it has generally been cautious with change
especially in the rail and air transport subsectors. Yet, the
Government has recognized earlier than most governments in FSU countries
the need to separate policy and regulatory functions from operational
ones, and to have transport services provided in a market context.
Consequently, the Government has begun to develop appropriate
institutional and regulatory structures, especially in the road and road
transport subsectors. Progress has been slow at first, but has now
gained momentum so that it is essentially the lack of expertise and
resources that is now preventing faster development in these two
subsectors.
Project Objectives
7.   The project's general objective would be to increase the efficiency
of road transport in Kazakstan. It would aim more specifically at: (i)
reducing vehicle operating costs by improving the condition of the
national roads network; (ii) improving the performance of DOR; (iii)
developing the road construction and maintenance industry; (iv)
improving the regulatory framework for road transport and its
enforcement; and (v) reducing the negative impacts of road transport on
the population, mainly road accidents and air pollution.
Project Description
8.   The project would consist of the following main components:(see 1/)
a)   periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of about 600-800    km
of priority national roads (about US$110.0 million);
b)   strengthening of DOR's routine maintenance capacity mainly
through the provision of civil works and equipment (about
US$5.0 million);
c)   strengthening of DOR's capacity to plan expenditures, prepare
annual budgets, supervise the implementation of roadworks, and
administer contracts through establishment of adequate systems
and procedures in DOR and provision of equipment for road
condition assessment and construction quality monitoring
(about US$2 million);
d)   implementation of priority action plans related to sub-
objectives (iv) and (v) in para. 8 above, including:
-    establishment of adequate regulations on vehicle sizes,
dimensions, road worthiness, and pollutant emission
-    strengthening of enforcement agencies
-    improvement in the public's attitude and information
- 3 -



-    improvement in economic incentives
-    provision of equipment for axle load control, vehicle
inspection, air pollution monitoring and control, and
office technology
-    possibly, civil works for eliminating black spots and
increasing the capacity for vehicle inspection.
(about US$8 million, in total)
9.   The road sections to be maintained and rehabilitated still need to
be selected. An analysis of expenditure priorities for the national
roads network was recently carried out using the Bank's Highway Design
Model with existing traffic and road condition data. It showed that
many subprojects achieved economic rates of return (ERR) in excess of
20%.  Further analysis will then be carried out, using new, more
accurate data, on a high priority group of subprojects (totalling about
2000 km), prior to the roadworks' detailed engineering.    All subprojects
in this group will have ERR above 20%.   Engineering judgement, as well
as national development priorities, will also be taken into account for
inclusion of subprojects in the group.
10. To make project implementation faster and more manageable by DOR
and MOTC, the total number of civil works contracts would be relatively
limited. However, if warranted by the capability of the local road
construction industry, some of these contracts (possibly eight to
twelve) would be small enough to promote the maximum possible input by
local contractors, while still of an efficient size. As there is much
uncertainty on the unit costs and the potential of the local
construction industry, the scope and packaging of civil works may have
to be adjusted during the project implementation period.
Financing
11. Most of the civil works machinery and some essential construction
materials such as bitumen are imported while the cost of (local) labor
is relatively low at present. As a result, the foreign share of the
cost of civil works will be high (probably of the order of 75%, i.e.
similar to that of the recent Russia Bridge Rehabilitation Project).
Taking account of other project components, the foreign share of the
total project cost is thus estimated at 80%.   It would be financed by
the Bank loan.       The local share of the total project cost would be
financed by the Government out of the Road Fund.
12. The Asian Development Bank and the European Union's TACIS program
have shown a serious interest in assisting the road subsector of
Kazakstan. ADB is now appraising a project. TACIS finances a large
number of consultancies mostly focused on international transport in the
context of its multi-country TRACECA program. The various projects, and
especially their TA components, are being coordinated.
Project Implementation
13. The project would be implemented mostly by DOR and the Department
-4 -



of Road Transport (DORT) of MOTC. Other entities, especially the
Traffic Police and the Ministry of Ecology and Bioresources could be
involved under arrangements to be defined during project preparation.
DOR would establish a project implementation unit (PIU), under
arrangements acceptable to the Bank, which would be responsible for
procuring and supervising roadworks in association with DOR's regional
branches and with the assistance of consultants. Consideration should
be given to using the same PIU as the one to be established for the ADB
financed project.
Project Sustainability
14. The Government has expressed its intention to reform its system of
road user charges and to increase the funding of road maintenance and
rehabilitation in Kazakstan. These will be the essential steps to
ensure the financial and economic sustainability of roadworks, the
project's most expensive component. The project, as well as parallel
projects financed by other donors, would also include strengthening of
DOR, particularly as regards the preparation of sound annual budgets and
the organization of routine road maintenance, therefore enhancing
institutional sustainability in the road subsector. In addition, as far
as road transport is concerned, the project's related component
(component (c)) should be designed for ensuring financial, economic, and
institutional sustainability, paying particular attention to (i) the
funding of enforcement and monitoring activities and of the operations
and maintenance of equipment; (ii) the training of staff; and (iii) the
information of road users and the population at large. Given the
project's nature (it would not create new medium to long-term
environmental impacts and would reduce existing ones), environmental
sustainability is not an issue.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
15. Since the early 1980s, the Bank's focus in the road and road
transport subsectors has essentially been on shifting governments'
priority from road construction to maintenance and rehabilitation,
promoting the use of private contractors, developing institutions to
ensure adequate planning and budgeting, design, procurement, and quality
control, and ensuring adequate financing of road maintenance, in
particular through satisfactory road user charges systems. The main
lessons of this experience have been the following: (i) few governments
have provided funding to the road subsector regularly and in sufficient
amounts, although road users generally are willing to bear additional
charges if assured that these funds will be efficiently spent on the
road network; (ii) the efficiency of road expenditures depends much on
the quality and transparency of planning, budgeting, and implementation
processes, adequate technology choices, as well as the capacity and
attitude of staff in the road departments; (iii) yet, institutional
development in the road subsector is a long term process which should be
conceived and implemented in different stages over time; and (iv) the
governance of roads departments is essential to their effectiveness and
can be strengthened by isolating them from political constraints and
involving road users as much as possible. The experience with
infrastructure projects in Russia and Kazakstan has also shown the
importance of: (i) having a committed, trained counterpart team in
- 5-



Government able to move the project forward; (ii) coordinating among key
interested parties on critical project issues; (iii) early detailed
attention to procurement and other implementation issues; (iv) involving
local consultants and institutes in the process; (v) carrying out pilot
activities whenever possible to do so; and (vi) disseminating
information on world experience. All these lessons are being used in
the project's design.
Environmental Aspects
16. The project would only have a minor impact on the environment.
Since there would not be any new road construction nor changes in
alignment, the project's main negative impacts due to road maintenance
and rehabilitation would be limited to those during the execution of the
roadworks. They would be mitigated by measures defined as part of the
final engineering and implemented, as much as possible, through the
roadworks contracts. Other components of the project (especially the
component aimed at reducing air pollution) would have a positive impact
on the environment.
Program Objectives Category
17. The project would essentially contribute to the Bank's
environmentally sustainable development objective, through improvements
in the efficiency of the road and road transport subsectors and, in
particular, improvement in air quality and road safety. By developing
the capacity of institutions and helping to establish an appropriate
framework for contracting out roadworks, the project would also
contribute to the economic management and private sector development
objectives.
Participatory Approach
18. Staff from DOR, MOTC, and the Kazak technical and research
institutes have been involved so far in project identification
(including the review of priority expenditures) and will lead project
preparation. Other stakeholders, mainly other government departments
and, especially, road users will be involved in project preparation, in
particular as far as the project component or road transport
regulations, road safety, and air pollution is concerned.
Project Benefits
19. The most direct benefits of the project would be to reduce vehicle
operating costs, improve the reliability of road transport, and reduce
future reconstruction needs on important sections of the national roads
network. The preliminary results of the analysis of expenditure
priorities recently carried out with the Bank's Highway Design Model
show benefit/cost ratio of 1.7 to 4 for potential subprojects. Other
benefits of the project such as improvement in road safety, reductions
in air pollution, increased efficiency of road transport and better
performance of DOR, are also substantial although less quantifiable.
Project Risks
-6-



20. The project faces substantial but manageable risks in line with
other projects of the same type. Regarding civil works, the project's
most expensive component, the main risks are that (i) they may cost more
than estimated; (ii) they may have an economic life shorter than
expected mainly because of inadequate maintenance; and (iii) the
benefits may not be as great as expected because of slow development and
lack of competitiveness of the road transport industry. The first risk
would be addressed by tailoring the civil works packages to the needs
and potential of the local and international contractors and by
maximizing competition. The second risk would be addressed by measures
to improve the funding of the road subsector and a special sub-component
for improving planning/budgeting systems and procedures. The Bank will
also need to support the component of the proposed ADB highways project
aimed at improving routine road maintenance. Finally, the third risk
would be addressed by specific measures in the project's component (c)
to improve the regulatory framework for and the competitiveness of the
road transport industry.
21. Other risks of substantial concern for the project's sub-components
aimed at developing institutions and improving regulations are that
proposed measures may be only partly adopted and not adequately
enforced. These risks would be addressed by focussing on subject areas
for which there is a broad consensus that improvements are required and
by involving road users, to the largest extent possible, in the design
of the measures.
1/   On the basis of the preliminary discussions held during project
identification.
Contact Point:       Jean-Charles Crochet (Task Manager)
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.   (202)-473-1159
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending
September 27, 1996
-7-



