Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18136-KZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
FORA
ROAD TRANSPORT RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
January 5, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, and Turkmenistan Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Tenge
1.0 Tenge = US$0.013
US$1.0 = 78.0 Tenge
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
BIP - Board of Investment Projects
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CEL  -  Committee for External Loans
DOR   -  Department of Roads
DORT  -  Department of Road Transport
EU   -  European Union
GAI - Traffic Police Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR   -  Implementation Completion Report
IsDB   -  Islamic Development Bank
LD   -  Legal Division
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MOIA   -  Ministry of Internal Affairs
MOTC   -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
NPV   -  Net Present Value
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
PP  -  Project Preparation
RSRE       Republican State Road Enterprise
RUC   -  Road User Charge
SA   -  Special Account
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
TA   -  Technical Assistance
TI - Transport Inspectorate
VAT  -  Value Added Tax
VOC   -  Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader: Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Prograin Team Leader: Jean-Charles Crochet, ECSIN



Republic of Kazakhstan
Road Transport Restructuring Project
CONTENTS
A.  Project Development Objective ................................................................2
1.  Project development objective and key performance indicators ......................2..............2
B.  Strategic Context .................................... .............................2
1.  Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ........................................................2
2.  Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................. 2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic choices ................................4
C.  Project Description  Summary   ...............................................................7
1.  Project components .........................................................7
2.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................7
3.  Benefits and target population .........................................................7
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................................................8
D.  Project Rationale ...............................................................9
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ......... 10
3. Lessons learned and  reflected in proposed project design .......................................... 10
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................                             .................. 10
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project ............................................................. 11
E.  Summary  Project Analyses ..............................................................11
1. Economic ............................................................. I 1
2.  Financial .............................................................                                                       12
3. Technical .............................................................                                                        12
4.  Institutional .............................................................. 13
5.  Social .............................................................                                                          13
6.  Environmental assessment .............................................................                                        14
7. Participatory approach .....................     .                                                                             14
F. Sustainability and Risks ...................................                        ,            ,........... 14
1. Sustainability .....................                                                                                           14
2. Critical risks .....................                                                                                           15
3. Possible controversial aspects .                                                         ....          ,         . ..... 16
G. Main Loan Conditions ............ 16
1. Effectiveness conditions .....................16.,,,,,,,,,,,,................. 16
2. Other ....                                                             ,, 16



H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                            16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies.                  ....................... 17
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analvsis Summarv
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.  Procurement Plan
Table D.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Financial Management Assessment
Annex 8       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9.      Documents in Project File
Annex 10.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11.     Country at a Glance
Maps
IBRD 29749   (Kazakhstan)
IBRD 29750   (Project area in detail)



Republic of Kazakhstan
Road Transport Restructuring Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, and Turkmenistan Country Unit
Date: January 5, 1999                                Program Team Leader: Jean-Charles Crochet
Country Director Kiyoshi Kodera                      Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: KZ-PE-8499    Sector: Transportation     Program Objective Category: EN
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan         Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ I Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data               [XI Loan        [I Credit      HI Guarantee       [I Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$ 100.0 million
Proposed terms:                         [    Multicurrency     [X] Single currency. US$
Grace period (years): 5           I ]  Standard Variable  [ I  Fixed          [XI  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front-end fee: 1.00%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                      Local            Foreign           Total
Government                                                   35.7                 0              35.7
IBRD                                                           0              100.0             100.0
Total          35.7             100.0             135.7
Borrower: Republic of Kazakhstan
Guarantor: n/a
Responsible agency: Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):    1999      2000       2001        2002       2003       2004
Annual      5.0        15.0       29.0       31.0       14.0        6.0
Cumulative      5.0       20.0       49.0       80.0       94.0       100.0
Project implementation period: 01/1999-12/2003  Expected effectiveness date: 05/15/99  Expected closing date: 12/31/04



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Development objective: More efficient road and road transport subsectors in Kazakhstan.
Key performance indicators:
a)   Lower cost of road transport on Kazakhstan's main north-south national road;
b)   Increased capability of the Department of Roads to plan, budget, implement and monitor road
expenditures;
c)   Increased capability of Kazakh road maintenance and construction industry;
d)   Increased efficiency of Kazakhstan's road transport sector;
e)   Reduction in the number and seriousness of road accidents between Almaty and Karaganda.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16989-KZ            Date of latest CAS discussion: July 31, 1997
The proposed Project is fully consistent with the CAS and would contribute to one of its primary
objectives, that of supporting private sector-led growth by rehabilitating the country's existing physical
infrastructure. The Project will contribute to the rehabilitation of one of the country's two most important
roads (the north-south axis that links the populated south, including the main city of Almaty, to the
industrial north and the new capital of Astana)]. The Project will also contribute to the development of
the Department of Roads (DOR) of the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC), and its
associated organization, the Republican State Road Enterprise (RSRE) and to the establishment of an
adequate regulatory framework for the road transport subsector. Through all these activities, the Project
will make road transport cheaper and more reliable, thus promoting international and domestic trade, an
essential element of private sector-led growth. The Project will also facilitate the development of an
important Kazakh industry (the road maintenance and construction industry, now fully privatized), and
help modernize the State in a sector (transport) that requires large government expenditures, thus also
supporting those important CAS objectives.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(i) General:
Because of its unique economic and geographic features, Kazakhstan relies on transport more than most
other countries, with the exception of Russia. In Kazakhstan, an efficient transport sector is therefore
essential for the development of domestic and intemational trade, as well as for most other private sector-
driven economic activities. The disappearance of the Soviet Union and the patterns of trade associated
with its highly-centralized system of production and distribution resulted in a dramatic drop in the
demand for transport services and, though transport volume has somewhat rebounded in the past couple
of years, it is unlikely to revert to the very high levels of the late 1980s. Due to its inherent flexibility and
responsiveness to customer needs, road transport is well suited to the needs of a market economy,
I     Kazakhstan's other most important road is the east-west one that runs from the Chinese border to Almaty,
then connects to the Kyrgyz Republic and continues towards the Uzbek border and Tashkent.



Page 3
especially over short and medium distances. Consequently, road transport's share in Kazakhstan's
overall freight transport market is generally expected to rapidly increase from the current 10% to the 25-
35% range, comparable to the levels in other large countries such as Canada or Australia (excluding
pipelines), provided that the quality of the infrastructure and the sector's policy environment do not
impede road transport growth, which they currently do, as explained below.
(ii) Road Condition:
Despite its vital importance to Kazakhstan's economy, the country's road network is in poor condition
and quickly deteriorating. Of the 17,000 km of national (including transnational) roads, only 37% are in
good condition, similar to the situation in Russia, but worse than that in most other comparable countries.
Other public roads (70,000 km of regional [Oblast], and 22,500 km of urban roads) are also in poor
condition, though not as urgently in need of attention as the national network. Clearly, there is a major
need for rehabilitation of national roads. An analysis carried out in April 1996 showed that the total value
of all projects with economic rates of return (ERR) above 20% amounted to about US$1.5 billion.
(iii) Road Sector Funding and Cost Recovery:
The state of the road network is largely attributable to the inadequacy of road funding (about US$100
million annually in 1996 and 1997 for national and regional roads, or approximately a third of the amount
needed to keep these roads in about the same condition), primarily as a result of the severe fiscal
constraints faced by the Central Government. But, as in most other FSU countries, not only is
Kazakhstan's road subsector inadequately funded, but the level and structure of road user charges
(RUCs) do not give proper economic incentives to road users. The total levels of taxation of road
vehicles are significantly below the marginal costs imposed on the road network by individual vehicles,
in essence amounting to a subsidy to road users (especially heavy vehicles) by the rest of society.
Improving cost recovery and securing steady funding for the road subsector are therefore among the top
priorities in the transport sector.
The Government is aware of this situation and has expressed the intention to increase substantially in the
long term the level of subsector funding and to adjust the system of road user charges. In order to ensure
a minimum and stable level of road subsector expenditures, the Government created a Road Fund in
December, 1995. Alternative options to bring total funding to an adequate level were also studied by
international consultants under funding from the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The Government has
decided to implement in the near future two main recommendations from this study: (i) the rate of the
enterprise tax, which is the main revenue source for the Road Fund (but not a road user charge) was
decreased from 0.5% of turnover to 0.1%; and (ii) the point of collection of the road tax on gasoline and
diesel (a real road user charge) was moved from the retail level to the refinery or the import level,
expected to vastly improve the so far largely ineffective collection of this tax. Implementation of the
above measures, which required an amendment to the Road Fund Law, was approved by the Parliament
in May 1998.
To continue the process of strengthening road sector funding and cost recovery, the Government has, as a
Loan condition, committed itself to: (i) taking all measures necessary and appropriate to ensure
satisfactory maintenance of the national, transnational, and regional road network, including the provision
of adequate funding; (ii) the provision of annual funding for the maintenance and rehabilitation of
national and transnational roads amnounting to at least US$100 million in 1999, US$125 million in 2000,
and US$150 million in 2001 and thereafter2; and (iii) the review of its system of Road User Charges and
the discussion of such review with the Bank, by March 31, 2000, and the gradual increase of road user
charges paid by trucks and buses so that the sum of all such charges will amount to at least 75% of the
2      These arnounts, which are below a technically and economically justifiable level of expenditures, are based
on the expectation that severe fiscal constraints will continue in the next few years, with pressure to ensure a
minimum budget allocation to other essential expenditures (for example, on public health and education).



Page 4
road user cost attributable to trucks and buses by September 30, 2000, and 100% of such costs by
September 30, 2002. It was also understood that the provision of annual funding of about US$100
million would be necessary to satisfactorily maintain the regional roads. In addition, as a condition of
Board Presentation, the Bank has received evidence that the draft budget law for 1999 includes an
allocation for the maintenance and rehabilitation of national and transnational roads, consistent with the
above amount of funding.
(iv) Institutional Development of DOR and Development of the Kazakh Road Maintenance and
Construction Industry:
The other principal reason for the road network's poor condition is the road subsector's past monopolistic
organization and inadequate implementation practices, whereby roads were neither well built nor
maintained to an adequate quality level. To address these issues, the Government has already taken some
key measures. It has restructured the roads administration, established DOR as a small policy-making
department, and set up central and regional program implementation units (joined under the recently
created RSRE), which have clear responsibilities and are well coordinated. It has also separated the road
maintenance and construction industry from the roads administration, corporatized and privatized it, as
well as ensured that all periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works are carried out on the basis of
competitive tendering. Finally, it has rightly focused available funds on the routine and periodic
maintenance of roads. However, much still needs to be done to establish a modern roads administration,
especially by instituting planning, budgeting, and implementation systems and procedures that would
ensure that available resources are used efficiently, as well as by training staff and changing old attitudes
and behavior patterns. The road maintenance and construction industry is also weak and not prepared to
work in an environment in which work is allocated on the basis of competitive tenders, and where
contracts are enforced (including, in particular, quality requirements).
(v) Regulation of Road Transport:
Although a modern legal and regulatory framework for the road transport subsector is gradually being
phased in, many incomplete or contradictory regulations, some still from the Soviet era, are in force.
Such a situation fosters a climate of uncertainty, promotes illegal practices, discourages the importing of
more efficient and environmentally-friendlier second-hand Western European vehicles, has an adverse
impact on road safety, and generally hampers the overall efficiency and development of road transport.
The Government has begun to address these questions but its progress has only been slow so far mainly
because it has not had at its disposal the necessary human and financial resources.
(vi) Road Safety:
Kazakhstan also has a poor road safety record, with road accident death rates relative to traffic several
times higher than in Western Europe. Though there has been a reduction in the absolute number of road
accidents in recent years, most likely as a result of the contraction of the economy and corresponding
reduction in the number of vehicle-kilometers traveled, traffic accidents still impose enormous costs on
the Kazakh economy. In addition to the regulatory issues mentioned above (e.g., inadequate vehicle
standards), other safety-related issues include insufficient enforcement, poor road conditions (with
dangerous black spots and lack of markings and signalization), inadequate driver behavior, and a general
lack of information and safety awareness.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project would address selectively all of the issues presented above in Part B2, by concentrating on
the most urgent priorities in the road and road transport subsectors, in close coordination with the
activities of other international donors and financing agencies involved in Kazakhstan's transport sector.



Page 5
Together with two other projects financed by the ADB and the Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) as
shown in the attached map, the Project would result in the entire Almaty-Karaganda road being
rehabilitated to adequate standards. This road, which connects the country's two largest cities, is part of
one of the two most important transport corridors of Kazakhstan (as mentioned in Part B I). The Project
would also include the rehabilitation of priority sections (not yet selected) of the Karaganda-Astana road.
An initial analysis of the full network of national roads in Kazakhstan showed, however, that there were
probably other road sections in the network the rehabilitation of which might have stronger economic
justification. The Government requested nevertheless, and the Bank accepted, that the Project's
roadworks focus on the Almaty-Karaganda-Astana road because of obvious political as well as practical
reasons (such as the higher visibility, easier management and monitoring, and stronger impact on road
transport, which all result from concentration of road rehabilitation activities). However, to ensure that
these considerations are well balanced with economic ones, the Bank requested that all subprojects it
finances achieve at least a 20% ERR, a criterion which guided the selection of the road segments included
in the Project3. As a condition of disbursement of Loan funds allocated to the rehabilitation of road
sections and construction of one by-pass and a bridge relocation, which have not yet been fully studied
(Part l.(a)(iv) of the Project Description), the Government would develop economic, technical,
environmental, and operational data and information acceptable to the Bank, providing evidence in
particular that the proposed works achieve an ERR of at least 20%.
It is also planned that the Project would contribute to the improvement of routine and winter road
maintenance on the Almaty-Karaganda road by providing road maintenance equipment. This project
component would complement a similar component of the ongoing ADB project, which includes the
provision of equipment as well as technical assistance, the latter with the objective of significantly
improving the roads administration's systems for programming and implementing routine and winter road
maintenance4. However, the progress of the ADB-financed technical assistance has been slow and
uneven. If this technical assistance does not bring about significant improvements, it is doubtful that
equipment financed by the Bank would be properly used and, more generally, that the road sections
included in the Project would be properly maintained. Consequently, as a Loan condition, the
Government has committed itself to the formulation and implementation of systems, procedures, and
technical standards satisfactory to the Bank for the programming, contracting, and execution of routine
and winter road maintenance on the Almaty-Karaganda road by December 31, 1999. It is expected that
these systems and procedures would later be used for the maintenance of the Karaganda-Astana road.
Meeting the above condition, as well as agreement with the Bank on procedures for renting or otherwise
making available the equipment to road maintenance contractors, will also be a condition for the
disbursement of Loan funds allocated to the purchase of road maintenance equipment.
The Project would also contribute to the development of the roads administration, primarily by
strengthening its capability in two crucial areas: planning/budgeting, and the supervision of works. In
addition, the Project will assist the development of the Kazakh road construction industry through the
packaging of some of the roadworks financed under the Project to be of particular interest to Kazakh
contractors. The capability of DOR to train contractors will also be improved in subjects essential in a
competitive business environment, such as bidding procedures and contractual relationships, cost control,
cost estimating, management, and quality control.
In the road transport subsector, the Project will concentrate on the development of priority national
regulations appropriate to a market-based environment (including regulations on vehicle emissions), as
3      In fact, the Project includes the rehabilitation of two small road sections with ERRs below 20%.
4      An ongoing study financed by the European Union in the context of its TRACECA program is also aimed
at the improvement of winter road maintenance.



Page 6
well as on measures for their appropriate enforcement. Issues pertaining to international road transport
are being addressed by the European Union's TRACECA program.
Road safety has traditionally not been considered a priority in Kazakhstan, nor is there currently on the
Government's part any strong sense of ownership of this issue. Nevertheless, it was agreed with the
Government that initial steps to effectively address issues related to road safety would be taken under the
Project, including assisting in the development of a National Road Safety Action Plan, improved
regulations and their enforcement, and raising public awareness of road safety issues in general.



Page 7
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category        Cost        % of     Bank-      % of
including    Total   financing   Bank-
contingencies           (US$m)  financing
(US$m)
a) Rehabilitation of Priority     Works,         123.2       90.8      87.5       87.5
National Roads                 Services
b) Strengthening of Routine Road    Services,      5.8        4.3       5.8        5.8
Maintenance                    Goods
c) Institutional Strengthening of  Services,       1.7        1.3        1.7       1.7
DOR and Development of the     Goods
Kazakh Construction Industry
d) Improvements in Road          Services,         0.7        0.5       0.7        0.7
Transport Policies and
Regulations and in their
Implementation
e) Improvement in Road Safety    Services,         1.0        0.7       1.0        1.0
Goods
f) Project Management             Services         1.2        0.9        1.2       1.2
g) Refunding of Project        Miscellaneous       1.1        0.8       1.1        1.1
Preparation Advance
h) Front-End Fee               Miscellaneous       1.0        0.7        1.0       1.0
Total    135.7         100     100.0       100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Key reforms supported by the Project are presented in Part B3, and include, in particular, the following:
(a) Improving the capability of DOR in some of its key activities (planning and budgeting, as well as the
implementation of works);
(b) Improvements in the regulations for road transport and in their enforcement; and
(c) Developing the Government's capability to address road safety issues.
3. Benefits and target population:
The principal benefits can be summarized as follows:
(a) Improved condition of the national road network, resulting in lower Vehicle Operating Costs (VOCs)
for all road users;
(b) A more efficient DOR, with an enhanced management and implementation capability;
(c) Development of the Kazakh road construction and maintenance industry;
(d) Improved road transport policies and regulations, and their more effective implementation; and



Page 8
(e) A reduction in the number of road accidents.
The beneficiaries of this Project will be all individuals and enterprises that are users of the public national
road network and of the road transport industry. Kazakh road maintenance and construction firms, MOTC.
the traffic police, and public health organizations. which will see a reduction in the number of road accident
victims requiring treatment.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
General:      Overall project coordination will be the responsibility of the Board of Investment Projects
(BIP) of DRTR and, within BIP, of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) created specifically for this
Project and the complementary project to be financed by the Islarnic Development Bank. At a more
detailed level, BIP and the P1U will conduct and manage project components (a), (b), (c) and (e) on behalf
of DOR. A working group comprising representatives of DOR. the Transport Inspectorate (TI) of MOTC.
and the Legal Division (LD) of MOTC will coordinate project component (d). The PIU will also regularly
report progress to and consult with the National Road Safety Commission regarding component (e).
MOTC and the Committee for Extemal Loans (CEL) of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) will oversee
project implementation, which, in addition, will satisfy the elaborate system of regulations and controls in
Kazakhstan. BIP and the PIU. currently a division of BIP, are being strengthened by, among other things,
training, staff recruitment, improved equipment, and improved salary conditions.  At Negotiations,
agreement was reached that: (i) as a condition of effectiveness, the PIU function in a manner and with such
staffing, organization. systems (including financial management and control systems), funds, facilities, and
other resources satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) as a loan condition, the Government maintain the PIU
until completion of the Project and ensure that it functions at all times with organization and resources (as
specified above) satisfactory to the Bank.
Reporting:    In order to ensure timely reporting to the Bank, the BIP will submit a quarterly report in a
format agreeable to the Bank, no later than three weeks after the end of each quarter. The quarterly report
will cover the progress and expected completion date for civil works and equipment contracts, progress of
the institutional components, policy studies, and training program, and activities of the BIP. Reporting
formats have been agreed on at Appraisal and are explained in Annex 7 (Financial Management
Assessment) and in the Project File. The report formats cover financial and procurement information,
including (a) comparisons of actual physical and financial outputs with forecasts, and updated six-month
pro-ect forecasts; (b) project financial statements, including sources and applications of funds, expenditures
by category statement, and special account reconciliation statement; and (c) procurement management
report, showing status and contract commitments
The BIP will also submnit annual reports to the Bank no later than January 31 of each year of project
implementation. The report will contain the following two sections: (a) Annual Progress Report; and (b)
Annual Work Plan for the Project.
(a)    The Annual Progress Report would cover the progress of each project component,
implementation of key reforms, key performance indicators, road sector funding and
expenditures, and the project financial statements.
(b)    The Annual Work Plan would contain a plan for the implementation, updated disbursement
profile, and target key performance indicators during the coming year. Budgets, which would
be based on the appraisal estimates, would be amended where necessary to reflect changes in
costs and scope of each project component. The budget for the PlU's operation will be
included in this plan.
The arrangements for progress reports were agreed on during negotiations.
Financial Management and Accounting: Existing BIP financial management and accounting systems
have been assessed and are described in Annex 7, including the identification of areas that require



Page 9
strengthening in order to meet the requirements of the Bank's OP 10.02 for the provision of accurate and
timely information on project resources and expenditures. Agreement was reached at Negotiations that,
as a condition of effectiveness, the PIU establish project financial management systems, including
internal controls, accounting, and reporting acceptable to the Bank. Such systems, described in Annex 7,
will include accounting and internal control systems that (i) are in accord with International Accounting
Standards; (ii) reliably record and report all assets and liabilities and financial transactions of the project;
and (iii) provide sufficient financial infornation for managing and monitoring project activities. Detailed
accounts will be kept for each project component and its sub-components according to a chart of accounts
agreed on at Appraisal. Agreement was also reached at Negotiations that financial management and
control systems acceptable to the Bank be maintained during project execution.
Auditing:    The project financial statements, the Special Account, and the Statements of Expenditure
will be audited at the end of each fiscal year during project implementation, in accordance with
international standards on auditing, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Selection and
engagement of auditors for the first year of project implementation would be a condition of effectiveness.
The audit would include: (i) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to
monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of the project-financed
assets; (ii) a determination as to whether the borrower and the BIP have maintained adequate
documentation on all relevant transactions; (iii) verification that expenditure- submitted to the Bank are
eligible for financing; and (iv) identification of any ineligible expenditures. Copies of the audit reports
will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the country's fiscal year. The audit report
will cover both the compiled account of expenditures incurred during the fiscal year, and the Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) used for withdrawals from the Special Account. Special attention shall be'paid to
confirm the transparency and accountability of the use of funds from the beneficiaries. Terms of
Reference for the audit and the selection of the auditor will be reviewed by the Bank every year.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The alternatives considered and the rationale for the selection of road sections to be rehabilitated under
the Project are presented in Part B3. The discussion with the Government and the rationale for the
selection of technical standards for road rehabilitation is presented in Part E3.
The remaining uncertainties about the Government's ability to put in place arrangements that would
ensure the efficient use of road maintenance equipment, as well as the conditions for keeping this
component in the Project, are presented in Part B3.
The Project's technical assistance programn has been limited to areas for which there is a strong need and
no assistance appears presently available from other international agencies.
Project preparation studies included a relatively comprehensive review of road safety issues, and
produced a broader road safety component than the one included in the Project. Given the Government's
relatively low interest in road safety at this time and MOTC's limited implementation capability, it was
agreed to include in the Project only the first priority parts of the drafl Road Safety Action Plan prepared
during Project preparation.



Page 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Latest Supervision
Sector issue                     Project               (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed                                     n/a
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank (ADB):              Road Rehabilitation       n/a             n/a
(under implementation)
Islamic Development Bank (IsDB):           Road Rehabilitation       n/a             n/a
(under preparation)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Since the early 1980s, the Bank's focus in the road and road transport subsectors has essentially been on
shifting governments' priority from road construction to maintenance and rehabilitation, promoting the
use of private contractors, developing institutions to ensure adequate planning and budgeting, design,
procurement, and quality control, and ensuring adequate financing of road maintenance, in particular
through satisfactory road user charges systems. The main lessons of this experience have been the
following: (i) few governments have provided funding to the road subsector regularly and in sufficient
amounts, although road users generally are willing to bear additional charges if assured that these funds
will be efficiently spent on the road network; (ii) the efficiency of road expenditures depends much on the
quality and transparency of planning, budgeting, and implementation processes, adequate technology
choices, as well as the capacity and attitude of staff in the road departments; (iii) yet, institutional
development in the road subsector is a long term process which should be conceived and implemented in
different stages over time; and (iv) the governance of road departments is essential to their effectiveness
and can be strengthened by isolating them from political constraints and involving road users as much as
possible. The experience with infrastructure projects in Russia and Kazakhstan has also shown the
importance of: (i) having a committed, trained counterpart team in Government able to move the project
forward; (ii) coordinating among key interested parties on critical project issues; (iii) early detailed
attention to procurement and other implementation issues; (iv) involving local consultants and institutes
in the process; (v) carrying out pilot activities whenever possible to do so; and (vi) disseminating
information on world experience. All these lessons are being used in the Project's design.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has shown its commitment to the Project by taking key measures for its progress,
including (i) establishing a strong unit, the BIP, for project preparation; (ii) requesting a PP Advance for
financing part of the studies for project preparation; (iii) financing the detailed engineering of the
Akchatau-Karaganda road rehabilitation out of its own resources; and (iv) launching the contractor
selection process for the same road section (bid documents were issued in July 1998). More generally,
the Government has amnended the Road Fund Law to improve the financial sustainability of the road
sector, without which the Project's long-term impact would be limited. It has also in the past few years
continuously demonstrated its commitment to the establishment of a modem roads administration, and is
therefore in a good position to make good use of the Project's services for institutional development. It



Page 11
was among the first in the former Soviet Union to clearly separate the road subsector management and
policy-making organization from the road maintenance and construction industry, as well as to privatize
this industry and contract out roadworks on the basis of competitive tenders. Finally, the Government has
shown its commitment to the establishment of a sound regulatory framework for road transport by
allowing rapid private sector development in this subsector, and actively using available resources and
international experience to put in place the building blocks of such a framework.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's main role in the transport sector in Kazakhstan should be to help the Government establish
the institutions, regulations, incentives, and funding mechanisms necessary for the competitive, market-
driven provision of services and the efficient supply of infrastructure. The Bank's involvement started in
the urban transport subsector, which faced critical capacity and institutional issues; these, in the
Government's view, were a main priority at the time. It is now proposed that the Bank continue its
involvement with the road and road transport subsectors, which are essential to the economy and face
major funding, regulatory, and institutional development challenges. The involvement could be pursued
later with the railways subsector if it responds positively to the current restructuring effort which the
Bank helped initiate in 1996, and which EBRD and the European Union are now assisting the
Government to implement. In the future, the Bank could also provide valuable assistance in developing
mechanisms (including guarantees) for the broader private-sector provision of transport infrastructure and
services.
Bank involvement in the Project is justified for the following reasons: (i) based on its broad experience
in the road and road transport subsectors, the Bank can provide key assistance to the Government in
designing and implementing major policy and institutional reforms in those subsectors; and (ii) given the
development need of the present institutions in the road subsector in Kazakhstan, the Bank can play a
crucial role in helping the Government establish correct expenditure priorities, put in place efficient
project implementation mechanisms, and supervise execution, with a demonstrative effect on future
projects.
The complementarity of the activities of the Bank and other international agencies are explained in Parts
B3 and E7.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the Project File, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV= US $69.1 million; ERR= 31.8%
The selection of roads for rehabilitation is based on benefits arising from savings in road user costs due to
improved pavement conditions, and from savings in future rehabilitation or reconstruction costs arising
from timely rehabilitation. The economic analysis is based on the Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance model (HDM 3.0); the road sections evaluated were categorized based on homogeneity of
traffic and road conditions, and a range of maintenance strategies was considered. Net present values
were calculated from incremental costs and benefits. Traffic volumes were in the range of 650 to 5200
vehicles per day. With the exception of two sections, only those sections with an ERR of 20% or more
have been included. The overall net present value of included sections is US$ 69.1 million, assuming a
discount rate of 20%. About 90% of the road works that have been identified have ERRs above 30%.
The benefits of introducing international bidding procedures, and supervision consultancies will be
achieved through improved quality and timely completion of works. These benefits are captured in the
above evaluation of civil works. Additionally, unquantified benefits are expected to result from (i)
overall efficiency increases in DRTR expenditures on road maintenance and rehabilitation due to
improved methods of setting priorities, updated database on the road network, better work



Page 12
implementation, quality control, and budget accountability; (ii) increase competitiveness and better
regulation of the road transport industry; and (iii) increase road safety.
The sensitivity analysis has shown economic results to be relatively robust when increases in road
rehabilitation costs and lower than expected reduction in vehicle operation costs are considered. The
results are more sensitive to low growth in traffic, although still acceptable under reasonable assumptions
(Annex 4). On the basis of experience in other countries, the probability of low traffic growth is
considered small.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Financial Analysis: No financial analysis was warranted, as the Project involves primarily works for road
rehabilitation, along with technical assistance and training. There are no revenue-earning project entities.
Financial Management and Accounting. See Part C.4.
Fiscal Impact. The Government's share of funding for the Project will be provided from the Road Fund,
amounting to about 5 to 8% of the Road Fund's annual expected receipts in the coming years. Given the
high priority that the Government places on the Project, the provision of local funds is not expected to
present a problem. Debt servicing responsibilities will also be fulfilled from the Road Fund. Resulting
financial obligations will be low during the Loan's grace period, and sustainable thereafter. Annual
interest and capital payments to the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank may peak at about
US$25 million around 2005, which would amount to 12.5% of the Road Fund's expected annual receipts
(and probably less if, as generally assumed, Kazakhstan's fiscal situation improves considerably once its
oil exports take off).
3. Technical:
There was disagreement between the Bank and the Borrower during project preparation on the design
standards to be applied for the roadworks. Extensive discussions revealed that Kazakh officials
envisioned that the Almaty-Karaganda road be brought up to technical specifications far exceeding those
to which the road had originally been built, and would have in fact amounted to a major upgrading of the
road. However, the present and likely future traffic volumes would not have justified such an
improvement in economic terms. The respective approaches were subsequently clarified and agreement
reached on mainly restoring the road sections to sound international technical specifications appropriate
for the expected traffic. Some limited geometric improvements essentially on the same right-of-way
(justified mainly for safety reasons) were also agreed on, provided that their cost did not exceed 15% of
the cost of rehabilitating the corresponding road section, and that the section's ERR stayed above 20%
(except in two minor cases).
Prior to the Bank's direct involvement in project preparation, the Government had commissioned an
engineering design for the Akchatau-Karaganda road section by local engineers. The original estimated
cost of this design was significantly above expectations. The design was therefore revised by the local
engineers, especially on the basis of the agreement on technical standards mentioned above. This
resulted in substantial modifications as well as reductions in the estimated cost. At the Bank's request, a
design review was also conducted by international consultants financed by the Finnish Trust Fund in the
spring of 1998, resulting in further improvements.
Work on the detailed engineering desizn for those road sections between Almaty and Gulshad that have
been selected for rehabilitation (sections 1-5 and 17-21) has started. It is being conducted by local
engineers under the general supervision and guidance of international consultants.
Given the fact that until 1998 no road contractor (either international or domestic) had ever worked in
Kazakhstan under procurement and contractual terms usual in non-socialist economies, there still remains
some uncertainty about the unit costs of roadworks, though part of the uncertainty was removed with the



Page 13
receiving of bids for the ADB project. All rehabilitation cost estimates are therefore based on the recent
ADB bids.
The execution of roadworks will adhere to procedures and construction practices common in developed
market economies. It is most likely that, given the size of the larger civil works contracts, only foreign
contractors will be able to prequalify, especially in view of the fact that the implementation capacity of
Kazakh contractors is as yet untried in a competitive contractual environment'. However, some smaller
roadworks contracts will be packaged to be of particular interest for Kazakh contractors as the main
contractors.
4. Institutional:
Although created only recently (April 1997), the Project's main implementing agency, BIP, has shown
that it had the overall capability to implement the Project. BIP is staffed with senior specialists from
MOTC and the former roads administration. They have gained much experience through (i) their
contacts with the Bank and Bank-financed consultants as part of Project preparation, including in
particular the preparation of bidding documents for the Akchatau-Karaganda road rehabilitation; and (ii)
the preparation of projects financed by other international agencies as well as the beginning of
implementation of one of them, the ADB project. BIP staff have also received training in project
implementation, and training activities are expected to continue under the Project.
In addition, a foreign expert will be stationed in BIP for two years to assist with Project management and
contract administration, and to provide general technical assistance to BIP. rhe detailed supervision of
civil works will be performed by independent engineers selected under Bank guidelines. As necessary,
BIP will also be able to get assistance from MOF's Committee on External Loans, which includes a
project implementation department with several years of experience with Bank projects. Finally, BIP will
be able to draw upon the experience of MOTC, which has already had experience successfully
implementing one Bank project, the Urban Transport Project. This project included, inter alia, several
contracts for consultancy services and a major contract for the purchase of goods.
As explained in Part C4, BIP's financial management and controls systems need to be strengthened,
which will be a condition of Loan effectiveness. During the appraisal mission an agreement was reached
on the organization, staffing, and resources necessary for the PIU (which is a division of BIP) to operate
satisfactorily. This agreement was confirmed at Negotiations, and its full implementation will be a
condition of loan effectiveness. During project implementation, it will be essential that the Government
continue to offer attractive employment conditions to BIP staff if it is to retain them.
It is proposed that the Loan finance 100% of the PIU incremental operating costs during Project
implementation. The rationale for this is the following: (i) it is consistent with the Joint Decree of March
20, 1998, of the. Ministries of Justice and Finance on the Establishment of PIUs in Kazakhstan; (ii) there
is doubt that, in this period of constant reorganization of State functions and drastic fiscal constraints, the
PIU would be financed adequately if a share of its incremental operating costs is left to local funding
sources; (iii) satisfactory functioning of the PIU is critical for the sound and timely implementation of the
Project; (iv) PIU incremental operating costs are of the order of 1% of total Project costs; (v) these costs
will decline considerably after the first three years of project implementation; and (vi) PIU incremental
operating costs are costs to be incurred for the creation of capital assets, and should be viewed as
investment costs (in the same way as the costs of supervision of roadworks), and not as recurrent costs.
5. Social:
Not applicable. No resettlement is required.
5     Given the relative scarcity of funds for roadworks, the activities of Kazakh contractors have over the past
few years been very limited, and contractors have had little opportunity or assistance to develop their capability.



Page 14
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category   []A   [X] B   []C
The proposed Project would have only a limited impact on the environment. Since there would not be
any new road construction nor substantial changes in alignment, the Project's main negative impacts
would be limited to those during the execution of the roadworks (emission of pollutants by the
construction equipment and the asphalt mixing plants, environmental disturbances at quarries, erosion
and run-offs, traffic safety at construction sites, etc.). They would be mitigated by measures defined as
part of the final engineering, and implemented through the roadworks contracts. The contractors will be
contractually required to employ environmentally sound work methods and equipment, and to prepare an
environmental impact mitigation plan, the implementation of which will be monitored by the supervision
engineers. The contractual obligations of the contractors are described in the Project File. Other project
components would have a positive impact on the environment through improved regulations concerning
vehicle emissions (resulting in cleaner vehicles), and increased overall efficiency of road transport. In
general, the project is not expected to have any significant indirect development impact. The roads in
question are already paved, and the Project aims to bring them back to their original condition. Most of
the traffic growth would occur even in the absence of the Project.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Staff from DOR, MOTC, and the Kazakh technical
and research institutes for roads and road transport were involved in project identification (including the
Teview of priority expenditures) and have so far taken a leading role in project preparation. Other
stakeholders, mainly other govemment departments and, especially, road users (individuals, transport
companies, and the Truckers' Association) have also been involved or consulted in project preparation, in
particular with respect to the project components dealing with road transport regulations and road safety.
(b) Other key stakeholders: Preparation activities for the proposed Project have from the outset been
coordinated with those of other intemational donors and financing entities, including in particular the
Asian Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and the European Union (TACIS). As a
result, all economically justified road rehabilitation works between Almaty and Karaganda (almost 1000
km) will be carried out through these mutually-coordinated projects. The Islamic Development Bank
will, in particular, finance the rehabilitation of an 88-km long road section (originally planned to be part
of the Bank project) for which the pre-engineering and design work is being performed with financing
from the Project Preparation Facility made available to the Kazakh Government by the Bank. The
technical assistance programs financed by the ADB, TACIS, and the Bank are also closely coordinated
with each other.
F: Sus1ainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
In consultation with the Bank, the Government of Kazakhstan is working to reform its system of road
user charges (RUCs) and increase the funding for road maintenance and rehabilitation, which will
contribute to the sustainability of roadworks, the Project's most expensive component. Components of
this Project, as well as parallel projects financed by ADB and TACIS, will also help strengthen DOR's
institutional capacity in such areas as preparing annual budgets and the implementation of routine road
maintenance, which further enhances the sustainability of investments in the road subsector.
The Project's road transport and road safety components have been designed to ensure their financial,
economic, and institutional sustainability, paying particular attention to (i) funding for enforcement and
monitoring activities, as well as operations and maintenance of equipment; (ii) training staff; and (iii)
disseminating information to road users and the population at large.



Page 15
Given the Project's nature (no new medium to long-term enviromnental impacts, and a reduction in
existing ones), environmental sustainability is not an issue for this project. Thlrough the establishment of
better regulations on vehicle emissions and improvement of enforcement mechanisms, the Project will
begin to address long-termn environmental sustainability issues in the transport sector.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                        Risk            Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
From Outputs to Objective
1. Insufficient funding for routine and winter       M      1.1 Govemment commitment to provide a
maintenance of Almaty-Karaganda road.                        minimum of funding to the road
subsector.
1.2 Bank monitoring of annual road
budgets.
1.3 Effective consultative process between
the Government and the road users.
2. Insufficient political and institutional will as well as  M  2.1 Dissemination of information on
incentives to use available resources efficiently and to     international best practice and potential
put the new institutional capability at work to better       benefits from taking action.
manage and regulate the road and road transport          2.2 Bank continuous dialogue with senior
subsectors.                                                  Government decision-makers.
2.3 Effective consultative process between
the Government and the road users.
3. Partial or no adoption by the Government and the   S     3.1 Same as 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3 above.
Parliament of laws, regulations, and enforcement         3.2 Focus on subjects for which there is
mechanisms for the road transport subsector prepared         already an emerging consensus on
under the Project.                                           needed actions.
3.3 Monitoring of the road transport
subsector's performance.
From Components to Outputs
1. Disruptive reorganization of the Kazakh Government  M    1.1 Bank continuous dialogue with senior
in general and the roads and road transport                  Government decision-makers on the
administrations in particular..                              efficiency of administrative
organization (especially in road and
road transport subsectors).
2. Low willingness of management and staff of         N     2.1 Dissemination of information on
concerned administrations to learn and implement new         international best practices and
knowledge, systems, and procedures; inability of             potential benefits from change.
administrations to retain staff.                         2.2 Bank continuous dialogue with
managers of concerned administrations.
3. Unsatisfactory results of ADB-financed technical   M     3.1 Close and coordinated follow-up of
assistance on routine and winter road maintenance.           technical assistance by the Bank and
ADB.
3.2 Support by road subsector managers.
4. Low willingness of concerned units of MOTC, MOIA,    S    4.1 Same as 3.1 and 3.2 above.
and the Ministry of Justice to coordinate their efforts  4.2 Official establishment of work
and collaborate with road transport and road safety          group/task force before the start of the
consultants.                                                 consultants' work.
4.3 Effective consultative process between
the Government and the road users.
Overall Risk Rating    M    I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i) That financial management and control systems acceptable to the Bank be established in the PIU.
(ii) That independent auditors acceptable to the Bank be appointed to undertake the audit for the first
fiscal year during Project implementation.
(iii) That the PIU has been established in a manner and with such staffing, organization, systems
(including financial management and control systems), funds, facilities, and other resources satisfactory
to the Bank.
2. Conditions of Disbursement:
(i) That the Government has developed economic, technical, environmental, and operational data and
information acceptable to the Bank with respect to the works mentioned in Part l.(a)(iv) of Annex 2
(Project Description).
(ii) That the Government has established systems, procedures, and technical standards satisfactory to the
Bank for the programming, contracting, and execution of routine and winter maintenance on the Almaty-
Karaganda road, and for the renting of equipment agreed on with the Bank (condition for disbursements
related only to the purchase of road maintenance equipment).
3. Other:
(i) That the Government take all measures necessary and appropriate to ensure satisfactory maintenance
of its national, transnational, and regional (Oblast) road network, including the provision of adequate
funding for such maintenance, and spend for maintenance and rehabilitation of its national and
traunsnational road network no less than $100 million equivalent in calendar year 1999, no less than $125
million equivalent in calendar year 2000, and no less than $150 million equivalent in calendar year 2001
and each year thereafter.
(ii) That the Government (a) review its system of Road User Charges and discuss the result of such
review with the Bank by March 31, 2000, and (b) gradually increase Road User Charges paid by trucks
and buses so that the sum of all such charges amount to at least 75% of the road use cost attributable to
trucks and buses by September 30, 2000, and 100% of such costs by September 30, 2002.
(iii) That the Government formulate, adopt, and implement systems, procedures, and technical standards
satisfactory to the Bank for the programming, contracting, and execution of routine and winter road
maintenance on the Almaty-Karaganda road by December 31, 1999.
(iv) That the Government maintain the PIU until completion of the Project and ensure that it functions at
all times with such staffing, organization, systems (including financial management and control systems),
funds, facilities, and other resources satisfactory to the Bank.
(v) That the construction of any new segments, if any, that may be required for the rehabilitation of roads
under the Project, will be carried out in accordance with the applicable policies of the Bank concerning
environment and resettlement, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. [] Not applicable.



Page 17
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ I The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
H ]    The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:. n/a
1 ]    The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Jean-Charles Crochet. Team Leader. ECSIN
Ricardo Hal       rector. ECSIN
Kivoshi Kodera. Director. ECC08



Page 18
Annex 1
Kazakhstan: Road Transport Restructuring Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary           Key Performance          Monitoring and     Critical Assumptions and
Indicators              Evaluation                Risks
Sector-related CAS Goal.                                                     (Goal to Bank Mission)
Promoting private sector-led   I. Decreasing number of  I. Annual survey    1. Measures are taken to
growth through the           enterprises identify road  carried out by     spread the benefits of
rehabilitation of physical   transport as a significant  MOTC.             economic growth and
infrastructure               constraint to their growth.                   reduce income inequality.
2. Increase in total freight    2. Reports of National
(T-km) and passenger      Committee on
(Pass.-km) traffic on     Statistics and
Kazakhstan's major roads.    National Transport
Institute.
Project Development                                                            (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
More efficient road and road  I. Cost of road transport on   1. Vehicle operating    1. There are no undue
transport subsectors in      project road sections      cost estimates     restrictions to internal and
Kazakhstan                   lower on average by 20%    prepared by BIP on  external trade, and the
(by EOP).                 the basis of the   Government takes all
2. Budgets for national and  HDM 3.             necessary actions to enable
Oblast roads are justified   2. Bank supervision    the markets (especially
by sound analyses, and    mission assessment  transport markets) to work,
75% of all projects have  based on DOR       as well as to facilstate
ERRs of at least 15%      budget data.       freight and passenger
(starting with CY 2001  3. Bank supervision    streamlining customs and
budget).                  missions           police controls, promoting
3. At least four Kazakh road  assessment based    freight forwarders, and
maintenance and           on DOR contracts   developing the insurance
construction companies    data.              sector).
are capable to produce at  4.Infornation     2. The private sector
internationally competitive    collected by road    invests in productive
levels of cost and quality  transport        capacity and human
(by EOP).                 consultants.       resources (including
4. Increased efficiency of    5. Data collected by    especially in the transport
Kazakhstan's road         Traffic Police of    sector).
transport subsector (by   MOIA.
EOP).
5. Reduction in the total
number of road accidents
and fatalities between
Almaty and Karaganda by
20% in proportion to
traffic (by EOP).



Page 1 9
OItputs:                                                                     (Output to Objedive)
1. Selected road sections are  1.1 About 600 km of roads    1.1 BIP and consultant  1. Sufficient finding is
brought back to a high       and 9 bridges are          reports               provided for routine
level of riding quality and  rehabilitated and      1.2 Bank supervision      and winter maintenance
structural soundness, and    improved in accordance     mission               of Almaty-Karaganda
to satisfactory safety level.  with contractual design  assessment            road.
and technical
specifications (end of the
Project).                                    2. There is the political and
2. Oblast Road Maintenance  2.1 Sound systems and      2.1 BIP and              institutional will as well
Companies between            procedures are in place    consultant reports    as the incentves t use
Almaty and Karaganda         for planning/budgeting    2 2
. . ^    .    .             ~~~~~~~~2.2 Bank supervision  efficiently and tD put
have the capability for      routine maintenance and    mission              the new institutional
appropriate routine and      supervising its execution  misesion              theanewinitutional
winter road maintenance.    (end of the Project).       assessment            capbility at work to
.                     ~~~~~~~better manage and
2.2 Sufficient equipment is                          regulate the road and
available to meet                                road transport
reasonable standards of                          subsectors.
maintenance.
3. A better framework of
laws, regulations, and
enforcement
3. (a) RSRE and engineering  3.1 Sound systems and    3.1 BIP and consultant     mechanisms is adopted
firms have the            procedures are in place.   reports               by the Govermnent and,
capability for        3.2 Sufficient numbers of                            whenever necessary, the
appropriate planning/     RSRE and engineering                             Parliament.
budgeting/monitoring/     firms' taff etrained   3.2 Bank supervision
implementation of road       s s   are ti.          mission assessment
expenditures.         3.3 Sufficient equipment is
(b) The main Kazakh road      available to collect and
maintenance and           process data.
construction companies 3.4 Sufficient number of
and road engineering      trainers are trained and
firms have a core         an appropriate
number of staff           curriculum on road
capable to apply          contracting practices is
modem contracting         in place in one lead road
and management            training institute.
practices
4. A better framework of   4.1 A modern law, main      4.1 BIP and
'laws, regulations, and      implementation              consultant reports
enforcement mechanisms       regulations and        4.2 Bank supervision
is proposed for the Kazakh   enforcement
road transport sector.       mechanisms which           mission
promote the road
transport subsector    4.3 MOTC working
efficiency have been       group reports
drafted and submitted



Page 20
4.2 Sound systems.
procedures, and related
equipment are in place to
monitor development in
road transport subsector.
5. The Governmnent of        5.1  A national road safety    5.1 BIP and consultant
Kazakhstan has a better      action plan has been         reports
capability to address road   drafted.
safety issues and the    5.2 Sound svstems                          . .
population has better          ou es                  .2 Bank supervson
.                   ~~~~~~~procedures and
dnving practices.             equipment, as well as      mission assessment
trained staff. are in place
to monitor road         5.3 Road Safety Task
accidents. carry out road  Force reports
safety research. and
enforce road safety
regulations between
Almaty and Karaganda.
5.3 Targets for road safety
education spelled out in
consultants contract are
met.
Project Components!         Inputs: (budgetfor each                            (Components to Outputs)
Subcomponents:              component)
(See Annex 2 for a detailed description)
I. Rehabilitation of priority                           1.1 BIP and            1. There is no disruptive
sections of national roads:                                  consultant reports  reorganization of the
a  Akchatau-Karaganda     US$60.0 million              1.2 Bank supervision   Kazakh Government in
road section (215 km)                                      mission            general, and the roads and
Sections of road       US$32.0 million                  assessment        administrations in particular.
between Almaty and
Gulshad (255 km)
D   Reconstruction/replacem  US$3. I million                                  2. Management and staff of
ent of nine bridges                                                          the concerned
o  Rehabilitation of road                                                     administrations are willing
sections between Ka roagda  US$24.0 million                                  to learn and implement new
sections bet-ween Karagandaknweg,stm,ad
and Astana. construction of                                                   knowledge, systens, and
a bv-pass. and relocation of                                                  retained.
a bridge (proposed)
2. Strengthening of routine                             2.1 BIP and
road maintenance:                                           consultant reports  3. ADB-financed technical
D  Road maintenance and    US$5.8 million              2.2 Bank supervision   assistance on routine and
office equipment.                                          mission            wmter road maintenance is
assessment        completed successfully.
3.1  IP ad cnsulant4. Concerned uniits of
3.1 BIP and consultant  MOTC, MOIA, and the
Ministry of Justice are
3.2 Bank supervision   willing to coordinate this



Page 21
3. Institutional strengthening                         3.1 BIP and consultant
of DOR and development of                                  reports
the road maintenance and                               3.2 Bank supervision
construction industry:                                     mission
0  Equipment for road and                                 assessment
traffic surveys and data  US$1 .0 million
processing
Technical assistance
and training              US$0.7 million
4. Improvements in road                                4.1 BIP and
transport policies and                                     consultant reports
regulations and in their
implementation:                                        4.2 Bank supervision
o  Technical assistance   US$0.7 million                  assessment
and training.
5. Improvement in road                                 5.1 BIP and
safety:                                                    consultant reports
Engineering            US$0.3 million             5.2 Bank supervision
a  Equipment for          US$0.5 million                  mission
enforcement and data                                      assessment
collection and processing.
a  Technical assistance   US$0.2 million
and training.



Page 22
Annex 2
Road Transport Restructuring Project
Project Description
The Project will have the following main components:
1. Rehabilitation of Priority Sections of National Roads - US$123.2 million6
(a)    Civil works (US$98.0 million): The Project will include the rehabilitation of several priority sections of the
national road network, totaling about 570 km, located along the country's principal North-South transport
corridor, the Almaty-Karaganda-Astana road. The road rehabilitation works will include the strengthening or, in
some cases, reconstruction of pavements, bringing particular road sections to common width standards, some
limited geometric improvements for safety reasons, improvements to drainage and repairs of culverts, and bridge
rehabilitation or replacement. All road sections already identified for rehabilitation have been selected based on
extensive economic analyses, and (with minor exceptions) the roadworks have economic rates of return of at least
20%. The subcomponents are as follows:
(i) Rehabilitation of the 215 km-longAkchatau-Karaganda road section, estimated to cost US$60.0 million:
It is planned that this rehabilitation will be carried out over a period of about three years, starting in the
spring of 1999.
(ii) Rehabilitation of sections of road between Almaty and Guishad (contiguous Section nos. 1-5 and 17-21),
totaling 255 km7: The cost of rehabilitating these road sections is tentatively put at US$32.0 million8. The
implementation period envisaged for this subcomponent is from early 2000 to late 2002 or early 2003.
(iii) Bridge reconstruction or replacement: A total of nine small or medium-sized bridges, lying along the
road sections selected for rehabilitation (with the exception of one bridge located on Section 16), will be
reconstructed or completely replaced under the Project, at an estimated cost of US$3.1 million. The
implementation of this subcomponent will be from early 2000 to late 2002 on early 2003.
(iv) Subject to further discussions between the Government and the Bank, the possible construction of a by-
pass around the settlement of Chemalgan, the relocation of the Kurty Bridge (including the construction
of access roads to and from the bridge) and the rehabilitation of sections of roads between Karaganda
and Astana totaling about 100 km. Estimated to cost US$24.0 million9, these works will be undertaken
only if the ongoing feasibility studies for them show that they would be justified on economic and
environmental grounds, and if the Government agrees with the Bank on specific environmental management
6     All cost estimates for civil works include physical (15%) and price (1.9% per annum) contingencies.
7     The rehabilitation of the 192 km-long road section between Gulshad and Akchatau is being financed by the Asian
Development Bank.
8     For the purpose of the economic analysis, Almaty-Gulshad was divided into 22 sections. Economic evaluations of Section
nos. 6-16 have shown that their rehabilitation would not be a priority of this time. Section 22, 88 km long and costing about US$10.0
million, will be financed by the Islamic Development Bank, in coordination with the World Bank's activities.
9     Cost estimates are US$2.2 million for the Chemalgan bypass, US$ 1.2 million for the Kurty bridge access road, and US$20.6
million for the Karaganda-Astana road rehabilitation.



Page 23
(b)    Consultant services (US$4.1 million): This includes the supervision of the roadworks (by both local and foreign
consultants), as well as training, technical assistance to the BIP. and those engineering and procurement services for
the Project not funded by either the PPF advance or from local resources. A total of about 725 local and 150
foreign consultant staff-months will be needed to carry out these activities. while the implementation schedule will
correspond to that of the civil works.
2. Strengthening of Routine Road Maintenance - US$5.8 million
This Project component is aimed at improving the maintenance capability of RSRE and the (private) Oblast road
maintenance companies on the Almaty-Astana road. Under this component. equipment and spare parts for improving
routine road maintenance will be provided. DOR and RSRE will soon complete their review (undertaken with the
assistance of ADB-funded consultants) of existing routine road maintenance practices and needs, and RSRE has already
prepared a tentative list of equipment needed to improve routine and winter road maintenance on the Almaty-Karaganda
road. The equipment included in the Project would complement the equipment provided under the on-going ADB project for
the Almaty-Karaganda road, and provide adequate equipment for the Karaganda-Astana road. As explained in Part B3 of
the main text. Bank financing of maintenance equipment will be made contingent upon the establishment of maintenance
planning and implementation processes satisfactory to the Bank. including ensuring that this equipment is efficiently used
and maintained. The implementation of this component is scheduled to begin in early 2000, and be completed by the end of
2001.
3. Institutional Strengthening of the Department of Roads and Development of the Kazakh Road Maintenance and
Construction Industry - US$1.7 million
To improve the institutional capacity of key organizations in the road subsector in a sustainable manner, the Project will
include the following activities:
(a)    The establishment of planning, budgeting and monitoring procedures for the national and regional road
network, based on the objective assessment of road condition and the economic analysis of alternative solutions, as
well as the training of staff of DOR. RSRE. and local consultants in these procedures, and technical support for the
preparation of budgets in 2001:
(b)    The establishment of procedures for the supervision of roadworks carried out under contracts on the national
and regional road network, as well as the training of staff of DOR, RSRE and local consultants in these procedures;
(c)    The preparation of training programs for Kazakh contractors in subjects such as bid preparation, contract
administration, cost control, management, and quality control, with which presently there is not much
familiarity in Kazakhstan, but which have become crucial in the new competitive environment"; and
(d)    The strengthening of DOR's training capability in the above three subjects.
The above activities will be undertaken utilizing the services of both local and foreign consultants. In addition, training,
study tours, and various kinds of equipment (for road condition surveys, traffic surveys, data processing, on-site and
laboratory tests, and office use) will be provided. The program for strengthening DOR, RSRE, and assisting the capacity-
building of Kazakh contractors is being designed to complement the programs being implemented or prepared by other
II    Kazakh contractors will also get training to help them acquire the capacity to prepare their prequalitication submissions and
their bids for roadworks financed under the project. In addition, some of the roadworks will be packaged to be of particular interest
for Kazakh conitractoTs as main contractors.



Page 24
The above activities will be undertaken utilizing the services of both local and foreign consultants. In addition, training,
study tours, and various kinds of equipment (for road condition surveys, traffic surveys, data processing, on-site and
laboratory tests, and office use) will be provided. The program for strengthening DOR, RSRE, and assisting the capacity-
building of Kazakh contractors is being designed to complement the programs being implemented or prepared by other
international financing agencies such as ADB, EU/TACIS, and OECF/JICA. The implementation of this component is
scheduled to begin in the second part of 1999, and be completed by mid-2001.
4. Improvement in Road Transport Policies and Regulations and in their Implementation - US$0.7 million
To address the existing regulatory weakness in the road transport subsector and facilitate the development of a modem
legal framework for road transport as well as for its enforcement, this component includes the following specific
activities:
(a)    The improvement and development of laws and regulations pertinent to road transport, for example, the
regulations on vehicle size and weight, on international road freight transport, on traffic rules, on vehicle
roadworthiness and environmental standards, and on the operation of inter-city and rural bus routes, as well as the
phasing out (where applicable) of obsolete or contradictory regulations inherited from the Soviet era;
(b)   The improvement of enforcement activities, through a clarification and better coordination of the roles of the
enforcement agencies involved, the elimination of duplication and inefficient controls, the strengthening of the
agencies, and better information of the public;
(c)    The improvement of systems to collect and process data on the road transport subsector and to monitor its
development; and
(d)    The development of a more competitive market for the provision of inter-city and rural passenger
transport services, including the development of independent bus stations.
To achieve the above objectives, this project component would include the provision of services by local and foreign
consultants, as well as training. The provision of equipment (for example for axle-load controls and data collection and
processing and for vehicle inspection) is not included in this component but could be considered later if justified. The
implementation of this component is scheduled to begin in the second part of 1999, and be completed by the end of 2001.
5. Improvement in Road Safety - USS1.0 million
To address Kazakhstan's poor road safety record, the Project's road safety improvement component would include the
following:
(a)    The setting up of a temporary road safety task force and the preparation of a preliminary National Road
Safety Action Plan and Local Safety Plans, which would outline the main features of the national road safety
policies, the main actions to be taken in the coming years, and monitorable objectives;
(b)   Improvements in the collection and processing of road accident data, and in their dissemination (including
improvements in the methods for identifying and analyzing black spots);
(c)    Development of road safety research in Kazakhstan, including assisting local road safety experts in carrying
out detailed economic evaluations related to road accidents according to latest international procedures, and
helping to establish liaison between Kazakh institutes and international road safety institutes;
(d)   Improved enforcement of road safety rules and regulations by law enforcement entities, including the
provision of appropriate equipment for the conduct of such activities;



Page 25
(e)    The development of a better understanding of road safety problems among young people and in the
population at large, and the corresponding promotion of better driving behavior and safer traffic practices. This
would include, among other things, road safety publicity and awareness campaigns, the dissemination of related
materials, teaching road safety in schools, and training of road safety instructors and teachers; and
(f)    The review of the state of existing, and possible provision of additional, emergency medical and other
equipment (air ambulances, emergency roadside telephones, etc.) for use in dealing with road accidents.
To achieve the stated objectives, this component would include the provision of services by local and foreign consultants,
training, study tours, and equipment for data collection, processing, and office use. The implementation of this
component is scheduled to begin in the second part of 1999, and be completed by the end of 2001.
6. Project Management - USS1.2 million
The proposed Bank loan will finance the incremental activities related to project management, which are the
responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within RSRE's Board of Investment Projects (BIP). This will
include the provision of all necessary incremental office equipment, supplies, furniture, consultant's services, including
auditing services, as well as financing the cost of office space, utilities, repairs and maintenance, training, communication,
and travel.



Page 26
Annex 3
Road Transport Restructuring Project
Estimated Project Costs"2
Local     Foreign      Total
---------- US $ million
Project Component
Rehabilitation of Priority National Roads      28.1       72.5       100.6
Strengthening of Routine Road Maintenance       0.3        4.7         5.0
Institutional Strengthening of Departnent of    0.1        1.4          1.5
Roads, and Development of the Road
Maintenance and Construction Industry
Improvement in Road Transport Policies and      0.1        0.5         0.6
Regulations, and in their Implementation
Improvement in Road Safety                      0.1        0.8         0.9
Project Management                              0.8        0.2         1.0
Refunding of Project Preparation Advance        0.0        1.1         1.1
Front-End Fee (1% of Loan amount)               0.0        1.0          1.0
Total Baseline Cost                            29.5       82.2       111.7
Physical Contingency (10% of baseline cost,     4.3       11.7        16.0
except civil works 15% of baseline cost)
Price Contingency (1.9% per annum)              1.9        6.1         8.0
Total Project Cost                             35.7      100.0       135.7
12    Amounts for project component costs may not add up exactly, because of rounding off to the nearest US$O.1 million.



Page 27
Annex 4
Road Transport Restructuring Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Summary of Costs and Benefits'3:
Total Cost    US$83.4 million
Net benefits   US$69.1 million
ERR           31.8 %
Main Assumptions:  Details of the economic and sensitivity analysis are contained in the reports by international
consultants Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick for road sections between Almaty and Gulshad, and a supplemental analysis carried
out by the Bank for the Akchatau-Karaganda road section, copies of which are in the Project File. The economic analysis
is based on the following assumptions:
*   In the absence of a data bank of competitive bid prices for construction pricing, unit costs have been based on
bid prices received for the Gulshad-Akchatau 192 km road rehabilitation contract, financed by the Asian
Development Bank. These were compared with estimates developed on the basis of locally derived unit prices
for plant, labor, and materials under previous studies, as well as with construction costs in other FSU countries.
These estimates were also used to estimate maintenance costs. Base costs were inflated by 15% to include
physical contingencies and supervision costs. The average cost of US$169,000 per kilometer includes bridge
repairs, shoulder widening, culvert repairs, and design requirements stipulated by the Kazakhstan standards
institute, Gosexpertise, which mainly aim at improving road safety.
i  Net Benefits were assessed using the Highway Design and Maintenance (HDM-3) model developed by the
World Bank. This calculates the net reduction in total transportation costs over the life of the project, taking
account of savings in road user costs, primarily operating costs, along with changes in construction and
maintenance costs. User cost savings depend mainly on changes in road roughness. Benefits were calculated
for both normal and generated traffic. The economic and sensitivity analysis presented here was prepared by
the Consultants, Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick, and by the Bank.
S Safety impacts are uncertain due to offsetting effects of improved road standards and expected higher traffic
speeds, and were not considered in the analysis due to lack of data on both accident occurrence and costs.
*   The traffic growth rates were based on rates of population growth and per capita income for passenger traffic,
and the rate of growth of GDP for freight traffic. In addition, the shift in the capital city from Almaty to Astana
has also been factored into traffic growth figures for the period up to 2005. These considerations produced
initial growth rates of 5.5 and 5 percent for passenger and freight traffic, for the initial 6 years, and 4.2 and 4
percent, respectively, for the remaining 14 years of the analysis period.
*   The base case without the project assumes that roads are maintained (routine maintenance, 50% of potholes
patched and periodic reseal after 10 years) but not improved over the 20 year evaluation period. In the with
project case, annual routine maintenance is complemented with patching of 100% of potholes, and reseals every
4 to 6 years.
*   Cost calculations were based on the detailed engineering, which was mainly completed, for the Akchatau-
Karaganda road section, and an in-depth feasibility analysis for the Almaty-Gulshad road section. The designs
conform to international engineering practice for road rehabilitation projects.
13    The economic analysis presented below is for the rehabilitation of the Akchatau-Karaganda and Almaty-Gulshad road
sections mentioned in Annex 2 (Project Description), and does not include the additional road sections (Karaganda-Astana), the
bridge relocation, and the by-pass, which are currently under study.



Page 28
Sensitivity Analysis: The major risks affecting the Project's economic justification are cost increases due mainly to
bids coming with higher prices than anticipated and low traffic growth resulting from a slowdown in economic activity.
Macroeconomic problems could effect both construction costs and growth in traffic. Other risks associated with cost
overruns, inadequate maintenance, or reductions in benefits are assessed in terms of changes in ERR in the following
table. The results are relatively robust when increases in construction costs and reduction in vehicle operating costs
benefits are considered. The results are more sensitive to lower growth in traffic. However, the probability of such lower
growth to occur is small as evidenced by the past experience of Central and Eastern European countries. There are also
good reasons to expect road freight traffic to grow considerably in Kazakhstan.
Test                                            ERR (%)
Base case                                          31.8
Construction Costs increase 10%                    30.0
VOC benefits are lower by 10%                      30.0
Traffic growth reduced to 3%,o                     27.6
Construction costs up 10% and traffic growth at 3%  25.9
The results of the sensitivity analysis, section by section, are presented in the tables below:
Akchatau-Karaganda
Base Case                    Sensitivity Analysis - ERR (%)
Section Length  Base       NPV        Cost    VOC -    Traffic   Traffic 3%,
(km) ERR (%) (US $'000)   +10%         10%    growth 3%  cost +10%
1      75     34       13,400       32       31         32          29
2      70      33       12,300      30        30        31          28
3      70      38      21,600       35        35        36          33
Total   215              47,300
Almaty-Gulshadl4
Base Case                    Sensitivity Analysis - ERR (%)
Section  Length   Base      NPV        Cost    VOC -    Traffic   Traffic 3%,
(km)  ERR (%) (US $'000)   +10%        10%    growth 3%  cost +10%
1      15      20         10         19       19         16          15
2       6       24        224        22       22         19          18
3      10       14       -242        13        13        10          9
4      32       22        419        21       21         18          17
5      26       19       -93         18        18        16          15
17      60      35       6,722       33        33        31          29
18     47       41       7,912       39        39        37          35
19     22       37       3,002       35        34        32          30
20      23      31       2,506       29        29         27         25
21      14      31        1,226      29        29         27         25
Total   255               21,779
14    The entire length of Alnaty-Gulshad (569 km) was divided into 22 sections for the economic analysis. Sections 6 to 16 were
not included in the project because their rehabilitation achieved ERRs lower than 20%. Section 22 (88 kIn long) was incorporated
into a project to be financed by the Islamic Development Bank.



Page 29
The main concern that these tables reveal is the marginal justification of the rehabilitation of Section 3 of Almaty-
Gulshad. However, this is a relatively short section (10 km) adjacent to other sections for which the economic results are
better. Given the section's close location to Almaty, the prospects for traffic growth are good. Therefore, it would not
make practical sense to exclude Section 3. In addition, the recommended treatment (a 40mm overlay) is in fact only a
periodic maintenance treatment.
Distribution of Benefits:    The Project's main direct beneficiaries will be individual car users as well as owners of
trucks and buses traveling on the Project road sections. They will benefit from reduced vehicle operating costs, shorter
traveling time, more reliable conditions, and higher safety. The benefits from lower freight and passenger transport costs
are expected to be passed on to the population at large since there is already substantial competition in the road transport
industry (particularly freight transport), which the Project component on road transport regulations is also expected to
enhance. In addition, the lowering of freight transport costs on one of the main transport corridors of Kazakhstan is likely
to stimulate the development of internal and external trade and the growth of the economy. The Project's main
components are therefore expected to benefit all income groups in Kazakhstan. Other Project components will benefit (i)
the Ministry of Transport and Communication by increasing its capability, improving the use of available resources, and
lowering the funds that would be necessary to rehabilitate the Project's road sections if it were done later; as well as (ii)
public health organizations which will see a reduction in the number of road accident victims requiring treatment. These
benefits will also impact all income groups in Kazakhstan.



Page 30
Annex S
Road Transport Restructuring Project
Financial Summary"5
Years Ending June 30
(US$ million, 1998)
Implementation Period
1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004
Project Costs
Investrnent Costs                        6.8      20.4      39.3      42.1      19.0       8.1
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IBRD                                        5.0      15.0      29.0      31.0      14.0      6.0
(73.7%)   (73.8%)   (73.8%)   (73.8%)   (73.8%)   (73.8%)
Central Government                          1.8       5.4      10.3      11.1       5.0      2.1
(26.3%)   (26.2%)   (26.2%)   (26.2%)   (26.2%)   (26.2%)
Total                                       6.8     20.4       39.3      42.1      19.0      8.1
Main assumptions:
The Bank will finance US$100.0 million of the proposed Project's estimated total cost of US$135.7 million, which is
equivalent to the Project's total foreign cost.
15    Amounts shown may not add up exactly, because of rounding off to the nearest USSO.I million.



Page 31
Annex 6
Road Transport Restructuring Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The procurement of civil works, goods, and services of the Bank-financed components will be in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. The project components, their estimated cost, and procurement methods are summarized
in Annex 6, Table A. A Procurement Plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement
actions is presented in Annex 6, Table C.  All other procurement information, including the capability of the
implementing agency, dates for publication of GPN and the Bank's review process, is presented in Annex 6, Table B.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method           Total Cost
Expenditure Category               ICB       Other    N.B.F.   (including all
contingencies)
1. Civil Works
1.1 Road Rehabilitation                  119.0                             119.0
(83.3)                            (83.3)
2. Goods
2.1. Equipment and spare parts for        5.8                               5.8
improving road maintenance           (5.8)                             (5.8)
2.2. Equipment and supplies for road      0.5        1.1                    1.6
surveys, data processing, office     (0.5)      (1.1)                  (1.6)
modernization, enforcement of
regulations, and road safety
3. Consultant Services
3.1. Engineering/Supervision and                     4.1                    4.1
Contractor Training                             (4.1)                  (4.1)
3.2. TA and Training/Study Tours                     1.9                    1.9
(1.9)                  (1.9)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1. PIU Incremental Operating Cost                  1.2                   1.2
(1.2)                 (1.2)
4.2 Refunding of PP Advance                          1.1                   1.1
(1.1)                 (1.1)
4.3 Front-end fee                                    1.0                   1.0
(1.0)                 (1.0)
Total     125.3      10.4                   135.7
(89.6)     (10.4)                (100.0)
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 32
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Metbods and Prior Review (in US$ million equivalent)
Category                                   ICB                 NCB                     IS                       NS                      Other Methods
1. Civil Works
I. 1. Procurement thresholds               (all contracts)     N/A                    N/A                       N/A                     N/A
1.2. Prior Review                          Yes                 N/A                    N/A                       N/A                     N/A
2. Goods
2.1. Procurement Thresholds                >$200,000           N/A                     <$200,000, up to         <$75,000, up to         N/A
aggregate of$1,000.000    aggregate of $350,000
2.2. Prior Review                          Yes                 N/A                     Yes                      Yes                     N/A
3. Consultant Services                     QCBS                CQ                                               Individuals
3.1. Procurement T'hresholds               >$100100,0<0_<$50,000
3.2. Prior Review                          Yes                 Yes                                              Yes
Items for the operation of the PIU will be procured in accordance with an agreed annual budget and schedule, and with prior Bank approval.
5. Primary responsibility for overseeing procurement will rest with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), a division of the Board for Investment Projects (BIP). Details on its
strengthening are provided in Part E.4. of the main text. The BIP was established more than a year ago and includes senior Ministry of Transport staff. tt has gained much
experience through (i) its contacts with the Bank and Bank-financed consultants as part of project preparation and, especially, preparation of bidding documents for Akchatau-
Karaganda, and (ii) implementation of the parallel ADB project, which has involved bidding for and award of a major road rehabilitation contract (about US$40 million). BIP
staffhave received training in project implementation and should continue to do so, as well as participate in road subsector-related international meetings.
6. It is planned that a Country Procurement  7. Will the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year be ready by negotiations?
Assessment Report be undertaken in 1999.      Yes, for Akchatau-Karaganda road and bridge rehabilitation and related supervision services.
8. Estimated date of Project   9. Date of General Procurement      10. Indicate if there is procurement   I 1. Domestic Preference    12. Domestic Preference for
Launch Workshop: 03/15/99     Notice publication: 11/16/96 (First);   subject to mandatory SPN in    for Goods/Works:          Consultant Services: Yes
_   09/01/98 (Revision)                 Developmnent Business: Yes         Yes, for goods
13. Retroactive financing: No.    14. Advanced Procurement:   Yes.
Invitations to bid the first major construction contract(s), and a Request for Proposals to provide Construction Supervision services have
been issued in order to be able to award contracts shortly after loan effectiveness.
15. Brief description of the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System: The Borrower's PIU will maintain complete procurement files, which will be reviewed
by the Bank's supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually. Procurement information will be recorded by the PIU and submitted to the Bank as part
of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This information will include: status of contracts; revised cost estimates for the different contracts; revised timing of procurement
actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; and compliance with specific methods of procurement. A Management
Information System (MIS), with a procurement module, will help the PIU monitor all procurement information.
16. Name of Procurement Staff Member on the Project Team: Irina Luca                 Division: ECSIN               Ext. 87092
17. Brief description of expected Procurement role of the Field Office: The FO will mainly facilitate communication on procurement issues between the PIU and the Bank.



Page 33
Annex 6, Table C: Procurement Plan
Contract No. or     Estimated       Procurement      Invitation to    Submission      Contract       Contract
Component                   Type      Est. N of contracts    Cost USSm       Method             Bid           of Bids        Signing       Completion
A. CIVIL WORKS
Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
1. Akchatau-Karaganda                   CW           01-WB/CW             19.4             ICB          Jul '98        Oct '98         Mar'99         Nov '01
(slice and package)                    CW          02-WB/CW             20.5             ICB          Jul '98        Oct '98         Mar '99        Nov '01
CW          03-WB/CW             20.1             ICB          Jul '98        Oct '98         Mar'99         Nov'01
2. Almaty-Gulshad   Sect.17-21           CW          04-WB/CW             23.8              ICB         Nov '98         Jan '99        May'99         Nov '02
Sect. I            CW          05-WB/CW              2.1              ICB          Jul '99        Oct '99        Jan '00         Nov '02
Sect. 2, 3          CW          06-WB/CW -            2.3              ICB         Apr '99         Jun '99        Nov 99          Nov '01
Chemalgan bypass                CW          07-WB/CW              2.1              ICB          Oct '99        Dec '99        Mar'00          Nov '01
Sect. 4              CW          08-WB/CW              2.8              ICB          Jul '99        Oct '99        Jan '00         Nov '02
Sect. 5              CW          09-WB/CW              2.4              ICB          Apr '99        Jun '99        Nov '99         Nov '01
Sect. 5 and Kurty Diversion    CW           10-WB/CW              2.6             ICB          Oct '99        Dec '99         Mar '00        Nov '01
3. Karaganda-Astana                      CW          I 1-WB/CW            21.0              ICB         Jun '00         Sep '00        Dec '00        Nov '03
B. GOODS
1. Road Mtc. Equip. and Supplies       Goods          I contract           5.8             ICB          Sep '99        Nov '99         Jan '00        Jun '00
2. DOR Road Survey Equipment            Goods         3 contracts          0.4              IS          Jul '99         Sep '99        Nov '99        Jun '00
DOR Road Survey Equipment            Goods         2 contracts           0.1              NS          Oct '99         Dec '99        Feb '00        Jun '00
DOR I.T. Equipment                    Goods         I contract           0.5             ICB          Jul '99         Sep '99        Nov '99        Jun '00
4. Road Safety Equipment                Goods         3 contracts          0.4              IS          Sep '99         Nov '99        Jan '00         Jun '00
Road Safety Equipment                 Goods         2 contracts          0.1              NS          Nov '99         Jan '00        Mar '00        Jun '00
C. SERVICES
1. Roadworks Supervision and
Contractor Training:
- Akchatau-Karaganda             Consultant     01-A-K/CS             2.1             QCBS          Jul '98        Sep '98        Mar '99         Dec '01
- Almaty-Guishad                 Consultant      02-A-G/CS            2.0             QCBS          Feb '99        Apr '99        Jul '99         Dec '02
2. DOR TAfTraining                    Consultant.       03/CS              0.6             QCBS         Apr '99         Jun '99        Aug '99         Jul 'O1
DOR TA/Training                     Consultant        04/CS              0.1              CQ          Aug '99         Oct '99        Jan '00        Aug '01
3. DOR TA/Training                    Consultant        05/CS              1.1             QCBS         Nov '98         Jun '99        Aug'99          Dec'01
4. Road Safety TA/Training   }
Road Safety TA/Training             Consultant        06/CS              0.1              CQ          Aug '99         Oct '99        Jan '00        Aug '01
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Incremental Operating costs                       In accordance with       1.2       In accordance                                                     Dec '03
agreed plan                        with agreed plan *
In accordance with annual budget and schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
ICB= International Competitive Bidding; IS = Intemational Shopping; NS = National Shopping; QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection; CQ = Selection based
on Consultants' Qualifications.
Notes:   - The following contracts will be procured as one package under slice and package procedures:
Package 1: contracts 01/02103 - WB/CW
Package 2: contracts 05/08 - WB/CW
Package 3: contracts 06/09 - WB/CW
Package 4: contracts 07/10 - WB/CW
- The estimated cost of the contracts includes physical and price contingencies, but not taxes such as VAT.



Page 34
Disbursement
It is expected that the loan will be disbursed over a period of about six years, beginning in the fourth quarter of FYI 999.
The disbursemnent forecast is based on reasonable assumptions regarding the speed of implementation, takes into account
the advanced state of preparation of the bidding documents and/or detailed engineering, and is consistent with that of
similar road projects financed by the Bank. There is not enough experience to form a standard disbursement profile for
Kazakhstan. The anticipated completion date is December 31, 2003, and the closing date December 31, 2004.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
As shown in Table D, loan funds will be disbursed as follows: (i) for works, 70% of expenditures; (ii) for goods 100% of
foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-factory cost, and 80% of other local expenditures; (iii) for consultant
services, 100% of expenditures; and (iv) for PIU incremental operating costs, 100% of expenditures. In addition, the loan
will fully fund repayment of the Project Preparation Advance in the amount of US$1.1 million, as well as payment of the
front-end fee in the amount of US$1.0 million.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursements will be fully documented, except that Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be used for: (i) contracts for
goods and works of less than US$200,000 equivalent; (ii) contracts with consulting firms of less than US$100,000; (iii)
contracts with individual consultants of less than US$50,000 equivalent; and (iv) PIU incremental operating costs. Full
documentation in support of each SOE will be retained by the BIP for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the
audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made for the relevant SOE. This information will be available
for review by World Bank missions during supervision, and by auditors. The minimum application size for payments
directly from the loan account and for issuance of special commitments is 20% of the current Special Account authorized
allocation.
Special Account:
To facilitate timely project implemet. -ion, the borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under condition
acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in a commercial bank. The selection process and criteria for
selection of the commercial bank would follow the World Bank standard selection procedures. During the early stage of
the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account would be limited to US$3.5 million. However, when the
aggregate disbursements and sum of all outstanding special commitments under the Loan have reached the level of
US$14.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$7.0 million by submitting
the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months,
and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. During Negotiations,
agreement on the establishment of the Special Account was reached with the Borrower.



Page 35
Annex 6, Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in USS million        Financing Percentage
1. Works                                 75.0           70% of expenditures
2. Goods                                  6.6           100%offoreignexpenditures, 100%/e
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost),
and 80% of other local expenditures
3. Consultant Services                    5.4           100% of expenditures
4. PIU Incremental Operating Cost         1.1           100/o of expenditures
5. Refunding of Project Preparation       1.1           Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02
Advance                                              (c) of the Loan Agreement
6. Front-End Fee                           1.0          Amount due pursuant to Section 2.04
of the Loan Agreement
7. Unallocated                            9.8                         N/A
Total   100.0



Page 36
Annex 7
Road Transport Restructuring Project
Financial Management Assessment
Overview
The Bank undertook a review of financial Management in Kazakhstan in May 1997 (Kazakhstan - Financial Management
Capacity) which assessed Government's efforts to improve financial management in support of the transition from
command to market economy. The report cites a number of actions to strengthen financial management in the private and
public sectors and in the banking system, including the passage of laws mandating enterprise accounting and auditing, the
issuance of a number of accounting and auditing standards and the creation of new bodies and systems to control and
regulate public finances.
A number of shortcomings are noted including, for the public sector: an improved but still weak budget process,
ineffective audit, weakness in transparency and the lack of essential information and detail about budget execution, and
poor accountability (demonstrated by inadequate control of extra-budgetary revenues of public bodies). The. report
concludes that the effort to improve financial management is an incomplete process with much left to be done and that the
measures already taken have had limited impact due primarily to serious shortage of financial skills. The report contains
recommendations for continuing the effort to strengthen financial management focusing mainly on financial management
and accountancy training and increasing the number and quality of financial professionals: For the public sector, the
report recommends: (a) the adoption of effective audit standards and procedures for the public sector; (b) strengthened
internal audit units in public bodies; (c) improved organization of external audit including audit of extra-budgetary funds;
and (d) adequate reporting of audit findings. It was confirmed during the appraisal mission that the financial management
situation in Kazakhstan has changed little in the last year.
Sources and Flow of Project Financing
Government counterpart funding for the project will come from the Road Fund, an account funded from special road user
charges and taxes and managed by the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC). Existing procedures for use
of the Road Fund financing of highway projects, involving annual budgeting for specific road improvement contracts and
payments to contractors according to construction progress, will be followed for the Project. The Board for Investment
Projects (BIP), a unit established within the MOTC specifically to manage donor-funded road projects, will initiate the
budgetary action by sending to the Road Fund management unit in the Department of Roads a detailed quarterly schedule
of expected implementation of the various project contracts. This schedule will be used to establish the budget for the
year for the project and, upon approval by MOTC, the budget will serve as the basis and authorization for the contract
progress payments to be requested by BIP and made through BIP and the project accounts to consultants, contractors and
suppliers as implementation proceeds. Project financed contracts will call for payments to contractors within 56 days
which the existing procedures governing the Road Fund and donor-funded payments are expected to accommodate. Bank
funds will be channeled in part through the Special Account to be established and managed by BIP and operated
according to Bank guidelines.
Management of Project Implementation
As described in the PAD, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established within the BIP. The current chain of
command from BIP through RSRE and DOR to the Vice Minister is long and is expected to be shortened by giving BIP
more autonomy (including direct contacts with the Director of Roads or the Vice Minister) and by the application of
existing Government regulations which give considerable autonomy to PlUs coordinating donor-funded projects.



Page 37
Project Financial Management
Internal Controls:    Internal audit is centralized within the Ministry of Finance and is carried out at least annually by
the Control and Tax Inspectorate of MOF. These inspections cover Road Fund activities as well as regular budgetary
activities. However, as indicated above in para. 2, internal control is generally weak. For the project, internal control will
be strengthened by the existing arrangements governing procurement decisions and expenditure commitments for the
PHRD Grant and the PP Advance which require the signature of the BIP Director in addition to the project manager.
Also, and more importantly, internal control will also be strengthened by the oversight of the Committee for External
Loans (CEL), an autonomous and well-staffed unit within MOF which must approve all procurement decisions and
withdrawal applications involving the use of donor funds and which reviews and inspects the project accounts maintained
by all PlUs. While CEL has no authority over Road Fund activities, the required submission of consolidated project
reporting and accounting to CEL will serve to strengthen internal control with respect to the Road Fund (at least for
commitments and expenditures for the project) as well as Bank funds.
While BIP staff have relevant experience for their expected roles in the project, they are not adequately compensated as
Government wage scales are very low. Furthermore, job descriptions are vague and ad hoc. For the project, care will be
taken in the establishment of the PIU to address these weaknesses. Job descriptions will be prepared for Bank review and
approval, and the bulk of PIU staff will be recruited as local consultants (including most of the current staff) and paid
locally competitive compensation, as is permitted by recent regulations issued by MOF and the Ministry of Justice
governing the structure, responsibilities, and operations of PlUs. PIU financial management procedures, involving daily
cash management (including bank account operation and reconciliation), planning and control of capital expenditure,
working capital management and liaison with MOF, will be defined in detail and, by a short-term expert (who will also
help set up the Project's accounting system) submitted to the Bank and CEL for review and finally established prior to
effectiveness.
Project Accounts:   Currently, BIP does not have separate accounts. Its budget is authorized as part of the RSRE
budget and its accounts are part of that unit's accounts. A separate accrual accounting system will be established for the
project and maintained by the PIU. The project accounts will be based on an agreed Chart of Accounts (shown in the
Project File) drawn up by the appraisal mission which reflects the detailed description of the project and permits project
transactions to be recorded by loan category, by component and sub-component and according to funding source. For
efficiency and ease of reporting, an integrated accounting software package (if an appropriate package exists in Russian)
will be used. For management purposes, the project financial statements will be prepared on an accrual basis. However,
since the Government still uses a cash basis accounting system, the PIU will also have to account for project expenditures
on a cash basis, at least for the Road Fund-financed expenditures. A Special Account will be established in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank and will be reconciled on a regular basis by the PIU and MOF. A Fixed Assets Register will
be established and updated regularly by the PIU. The project accounting system (including the recording and filing of
essential documentation) will be set up, using the agreed Chart of Accounts as a basis, as a condition of effectiveness
under the guidance of the above mentioned short-term expert. The expert will also train the PIU accountant and managers
in the operation of the system and will prepare a detailed Procedures Manual for PIU staff.
PIUStaffing: BIP currently numbers about 12 staff, including the Director, several engineers (some of which are
acquiring procurement knowledge), an accountant, and a "finance officer" for each of the three external donors involved
in the road transport sector (the Bank, the ADB, and the IsDB). This staffing has proved adequate for the management
and coordination of project preparation activities, including procurement of consultant services and accounting for
expenditures under a PHRD Grant and a PP Advance. However, for the implementation of the project, BIP and the PIU
will require the addition of staff and improvement in skills. Among the areas to be strengthened (mentioned above the
PAD) is financial management and accounting. The current BIP accountant is adequately trained and experienced for
current requirements and BIP's reporting obligations to Government, but the project's accounting and reporting
obligations will be much more complex. BIP will recruit a Financial Manager with an international level of qualifications
and the intention to quickly acquire knowledge of Bank procurement and financial guidelines. He/she will direct Project
accounting, financial controls and financial and management reporting (ref. Loan covenant on PIU staffing).



Page 38
Financial and Management Reporting
The PIU will submit to MOTC, CEL and the Bank comprehensive quarterly reports covering project finances,
implementation progress (including variance reporting), procurement progress, and contract expenditure. The formats for
this reporting system was discussed and agreed with BIP and CEL during appraisal. This reporting system would support
the eventual application of the new (LACI) disbursement system. The reports contained in the system are as follows
(formats are shown in the Project File):
(a) Financial Statements
(i) Sources and Uses of Funds
(ii) Uses of Funds by Project Activity
(iii) Balance Sheet
(iv) Cash Withdrawal
(v) Cash Forecast
(vi) Special Account Statement
(vii) Output Monitoring
(b) Project Progress Report
(c) Procurement Management
(i) Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)
(ii) Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants)
(iii) Procurement management Report (Goods and Works)
(iv) Procurement Management Report (Consultants)
Audit Arrangements
The Project financial statements, the Special Account and the Statements of Expenditure (SOE) will be audited at the end
of each fiscal year during project implementation, in accordance with international audit standards, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Auditors for the first year of project activity will be selected and engaged prior to Loan
effectiveness. The terms of reference (TOR) for the audit, to be submitted to the Bank for approval, will indicate that the
project accounts will be maintained on an accrual basis and will include the following tasks:
(a) assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other
financial transactions and ensure safe custody of the project-financed assets;
(b) a determination as to whether the borrower and the BIP/PIU have maintained adequate documentation on all
relevant transactions;
(c) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing; and
(d) identification of any ineligible expenditures.
The audit report, covering Project accounts as well as the Special Account and SOEs, will be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The TOR and selection of the auditor will be reviewed by the Bank for
each year of project implementation.



Page 39
Annex 8
Road Transport Restructuring Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned               Actual
400.0                390.0
B. Project Schedule                               Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           19                   27
First Bank mission (identification)             03/15/1996            03/15/1996
Appraisal mission departure                      11/15/1997           06/27/1998
Negotiations                                     02/01/1998            12/07/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/1998             05/15/99
Prepared by: Board of Investments Projects of the Department of Roads
Preparation assistance:
Project Preparation Facility:  US$1.100.000
Japanese PHRD Grant:      US$564.900
Finnish Trust Fund        US$55,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Jean-Charles Crochet                     Program Team Leader
Larry R. McCartney                       Infrastructure Specialist
Z. Joe Kulenovic                         Economist
Ruslan Mamishev                          Operations Officer
Kavita Sethi                             Transport Economist
Henry Boldrick                           Financial Analyst
Irina Luca                               Procurement Specialist
Peter Whitford                           Environmental Specialist
Tariq Hassan                             Counsel
Gennady Pilch                            Counsel
Subash Chandra                           Disbursement Officer
Hannah Koilpillai                        Disbursement Officer



Page 40
Annex 9
Road Transport Restructuring Project
Documents in the Projec:t File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Description and Implementation Plan                                 June 1998
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Republic of Kazakhstan: Transport Sector Review, Report No. 15020-KZ      September 30, 1996
Back-to-Office Reports of Preparation, Pre-appraisal, and Appraisal missions  December 1997,
May 1998,
and July 1998
Supplementary Economic Analysis of Akchatau-Karaganda Road Rehabilitation       January 1998
Assessment of BIP Financial Management and Control Systems (including agreed       July 1998
Chart of Accounts and formats of reporting system)
C. Other
Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick                                                      December 1997
Selection of Roads                                                       December 1997
Bridge Survey Report                                                     December 1997
Environmental Appraisal Report                                           December 1997
Pavement Design Report                                                   December 1997
Materials Report                                                         December 1997
Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick in association with TRL and Ross Silcock Limited
Road Safety Action Plan                                                       July 1997
Louis Berger International: Asian Development Bank Road Rehabilitation Project
Feasibility Study of Gulshad-Karaganda Road Rehabilitation               December 1995
PADECO
Road User Cost Recovery Program                                            October 1997
Ian Jenkins
Road Transport Review                                                      October 1997
Jean-Marie Lantran
Report on the Road Maintenance and Construction Industry                   October 1996
Finnroad Consultants
Akchatau-Karaganda Road Rehabilitation Design Review                          May 1998
Contractors' contractual obligations regarding environmental mitigation           May 1998



Page 41
Annex 10
Road Transport Restructuring Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit Accounts List as of November 30, 1998
Loan/   Financier Project          Description         CCY of Amount in millions (USD)  Approval    Closing
Credit             ID                                  Commit Principal  Undisb  Disbur   Date          Date
36420    IBRD    8504  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              USD         38      6.8    31.2   3-Aug-93   30-Jun-99
36490    IBRD    8509  REHABILITATION                    USD        180       0      180   16-Sep-93   31-Jul-95
37250    IBRD    8511  URBAN TRANSPORT                   USD         40        1      39   7-Apr-94   30-Sep-98
37440    IBRD    8501  PETROLEUM TA                      USD        15.7      5    10.7   2-Jun-94   30-Jun-99
38670    IBRD    8508  FINANCE & ENT. DEVEL              USD         62    55.9      6.1  18-Apr-95   30-Sep-01
38960    IBRD    8506  SOCIAL PROTECTION                 USD        41.1    22.2    18.9  30-May-95   30-Jun-02
39000    IBRD    8502  STRUCT. ADJ. LOAN                 USD        180       0      180    8-Jun-95  31-Dec-%
40410    IBRD    8510  IRRIG. & DRAINAGE                 USD         80    70.4      9.6  18-Jun-96  31-Dec-03
40510    IBRD   35762 FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJ               USD        180       0      180   25-Jun-96   30-Sep-97
40610    IBRD    8507  UZEN OIL FIELD REHAB              USD        109   101.5      7.5    2-Jul-96  31-Dec-00
40770    IBRD   37960 TREASURY MODERNIZATION   USD                  15.8    13.5     2.3   30-Jul-96  31-Dec-00
41290    IBRD   45303  PILOT WATER SUPPLY                USD          7      6.6     0.4  23-Dec-96  31-Dec-01
41460    IBRD   46044 REAL ESTATE REG PLT.               USD         10      7.8     2.2   3-Apr-97   30-Jun-99
42170     IBRD   34093 PUBLIC SEC. RES.MGT.              USD        230      150      80  26-Aug-97  31-Dec-99
43310    IBRD    8503  AG POST PRIV. ASST.               USD         15       15       0    2-Jun-98   31-Jan-02
43590    IBRD   50780 PENSION REF. SAL                   USD        300     200      100   25-Jun-98   31-Jul-00



Pag 42
Annex 11
Road Transport Restructuring Project
Country-at-a-Glance
&ump &   Lower.
POVER    U                                                   Cand   CdddA
Kaba             Mf Sboe Ir_   o  
Popdaon mid-1996 (fnfA)                               16.5       478    1.125
GNP pe tpb 1996 (SS)                                 1.220     2200    1.740                  U      /
GNP 1996 (WU55*JS$)                                   20.0     1.050    1.t92
Avege annual grow, 1910-T
Popdtia   %                                           -0.3        0.3      1.4     GNP              A
Labor foma (16)                                       -0.1        0.S      1.7     p                              penay
Povfty: hednsmt -idu (% *fppWat                         .,         ,         _
Urban poptXb (1 Of toalpOPUW,)                         so 60      6         5t
Lfte eXPeCtat boUt (Yer)                               65         6s        or
Infant moft (pr 1.00 he 8Jt)                           25         24        40              A         ts  wa.
Chid malnubon (% ofd*dem dic5)                      1. .
Accea to sae wate ( Of poPMo)                                               75
iacy (t Of 5poeta  15p      )                            ..        ..       20
Grana pnonary evon-inet (16 of'.sboooiege pop(*fnj     96        100       104
Male                                                 se        101       107               LaOmewnicdo4 tO4
Fenale                                               96        tOO      101
KEY ECONOMC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
11$     1is8       19"       116
GOP (bhoos USSJ                                ..        _       19.5     20.8      Eeo_ saiOe
Grus domaest  h lenvGOP                                  ..      22.1     23.3             Op           o lm  
Expot of god an    v     GOP                   ..       ..      34.7      3t.0                                             :
Gros domestic svg GOP                          ..       ..       19.5     20.0
Gmsa naol saGaOP                               ..       ..       19.0     19.1                      T
Cuwent acountt becaGOP                         ..       ..       43.      4
Int        payment/GOP                         ..     ..    .s             0.6     Sa  W                       Ine
Total teoUGOP                                  ..       ..       16.9     14.1
Total deb sv ,pom                              ..       ..        4.1      9.9
Preant valu of detGOP                          ..       ..         ..    13.1
Pret vaue of d oa                              ..       ..         ..     3.9                  I
197545  1946M       199        1993  199746
(oVerge annual uuwgti                                                                    -
GOP                                    .      1       -.2.        0.5       .t1
GNP pcapitet                          ..    .44       -t.5        1.S      5.1-                  9               U
Expots of1 goos end sevis                              4.5       12.5      61A  t ;
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
176      19S       1         1it 6                                    ('_
(X of GOP)
Agncuf..                                                 .       t2.5     129       
Irndutry                                       ..       _.      30.1      30.4      *1
nut                                           ..      ..        6.2      $A  ._ 
Sevc                                           ..       ..       57.4     56. 8       t
Prvate conaunipton                             ..       ..      84.9      67.3      o 
Genea grove n conaa i                          ..       ..       15.6     12.3               _;01  _
Impo   1 good a                                ..       ..      37.3      34.4  -,..
Agiultre                                       ..   ..  -24.4 t .O T
Indusary
Man'afecatnng              ..       -.      43.6      ~~~      ~~~~~0.0                00:7
ServMs                                         ..       ..       10.8     -3.6      a
Pqvate conwntion                               ..       ..       -3.8      1.3     4
Gee r        ioonnt conamatn                                     -4.1     10.3
Imporas of goo   nd R..                                 ..       10.7     11.9         S         r 
Goss nanln pedut                                      42         d.8       0.9 `S  =     _____mm1_____
No  1996dat am pralliniy eann_e Ff    on i              br  r ye oe l Pen   o   t
*The d    dshow t   key   b e n e  qy (in boWl    p                it3 imgm av          It da    rni   g. le _     
be



Page 43
Kaakhstan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     113s      1995    1116
Doamec pdcInen (
(x chage                                                                        2.0.
Canm   pi                                                                                                ...60Dc2 60.0    25.3    urn T
Inmet GOP dltator                            ..       ..    157.6    38.9          .
Government ffnance a
(15 of GOP)
Cunt revenue                                  ..      ..      21.4    20.3               i         U    U    I n
Cwment budget   nce                          ..       ..       0.1    -5.4               --GDP del,        Pt
Ove   swpuplusiit                             ..      ..      -2.1    -3.1
TRADE
1175     19SS      11195    19S
(Mnwns usS,                                                                     Expmt and inpo.tte"a (milL USS)
Total exports (fob)                          *-              S.197    5,480   1       T
Oi asnd gas                                ..        ..      783    1.022                                       _
Otlhr metals                                ..       ..    1,069      969   !
Manutactga                                  ..       ..      474      430
Tot impons (cN)                              ..       ..    5,419    5,168
Food                                                 ..        ..      ..    a.am4
Fuel and enegy                               .       ..    1.237    2324          I
Caottal gooda
Expot pnce wi-dx (1987.100)                  ..       ..        ..        .           U   ii  U   U   U   0   U
Import pnc index a1987.1)                     ..       -         .        *-                    n *Eoor*1
Terms of TAli (1987*100)                     ..       ..
BALANCE of PAYMS
1975    t9S        1596    1996      Custconb*ectGPao%
(MIlliorts USSJ                                                                 t:urnt aecuntb t4ft"toGDP rd0(%)
Exports of goods anid sevpmc                 ..       ..    5.732    6.956        _
Imrts of good and svc                         ..      ..    8.162    7.546
Reource balance                               ..      ..    -431    -580         t
Net inot m                                    ..      ..    -338    -222          I
Net current tralars.                                   .        59       50 so  ts
Cuait account balance.
betore oflo   ctTal                                  .       -710    -752       t                     -
Financng itma (not)                          ..       ..       S36      524
Changesinn ireserves                          .               -126      228    .4
Me mo:I
Reves iriduEntg gold fairt USS)               .        ..    1.664    1.959
Converson rat (ocabUSS)                               --      51.9    68.2
EXTERNAL MOBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     118S      1119    1196
(nvions USSJ
Total dOt outndigd did                        ..      ..    3.696    2.920
IBRO                                        -.      ..       295     490                    G        A
IDA                                        ..       ..         0       0      tampoei. eitM  deft. i9O(mIL USS)
TOl debt serice,                                               237      am 
JBRD                                        ..                14       24                 ^
IDA                                        .-        '         0       0           F         2
CornPosibn of nct oulee GM$                                                         s5                 _     C
Ofr=il gormits                             ..       ..        10      44so7.                      _
0fit crnditom.                                       .       394     332                  4
Prvate creditors                           ..           ..   188     305 
Forgn diet iveme                            ..      ..       24       310                              96
Po ifole                                                       a -   
WoeId Bank pogram
:.4r-rntm nts                              -         . --      3              . 0E.ni_I
sioursemerm                                ..                 077    275       a.;ciAo     acmwnamru s   F.- P
Principal rePayments                                           0       0       C-Oc F                   G. -Sh =n
Not                                         ..      ..       107     225
Inbtret parnm                              ..        .        14      24
Netanr                                      ..                93     201
Developmnt Ecoormc                                                                                              s58
Noto: Estimate fore     s of ln forme Sot Union asi aubt to mom lin li usul rne of uncetinty.
Governmentfinancerepreen gm  government accounts unt 1991.



MAP SECTION



BRED 29749
550                                           60                          !          T.    70'80                                                                                           90
KAZAKHSTAN                               RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ROAD TRANSPORT                                    ToChelyoh                    ,,T
RESTRUCTURING   PROJECT                                                                            PO-LVS                T.O-ko    ~ ToOo-k                                                         9
0     1O0    200    3O    400 K,ilr-                                                                                                   __t-
0 '100                     200 MIos           T.                                                                                                          T v  r   '-5; _  . 8--i                 I
To Soo.o-
T.roho    \K    ..r                                                           ,g      ,>      ~    /    gh                 AA H NY               XO   ei8$                            /
Soeloto                                       !                                                       -- (Bie  a_X ;.!0.. __<. ......... P;1 S4lkODh\
SO  !rN.           AAfLODASTA   "/ \ZjW                                                                                                                                                              -               SOYY O D   .\<     --Ss 
Chpoo --  ,~                                                                                                                                             Iio              *OSKEr     .!;  ,        _ t i2 _MEIN ROAD
A ofroEho                                                           .                                                                            \.(oodor ,. ROpD ~EHAS I A ON  NAI OetN A
To                                                                       / lKzKHLt     \. UR0o8o ZA    HAB~ E              N,o>.                                   4      R  IANE              )RGINCPTL
\t.    ~~    xg   T U R K M E N I S TA N   0                                  j|       ( p\A\s <         .o          r            -   IsDB FINANCED        ---REGIONS BOUNDARIESoo  0  V.4b
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ZA BC>   60 .                                                                                                 kJ(79*IBRD    FIANE BR DGES - Y  INTER N A T CIONALBUDRE
<ISHKEK                     -L          M
400                                                                                                                                                                                                 DESERTWST  AREAS,NI
t   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~UKE                        TA                   .AEPNNED 0ASLETE CTT
k.r.
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    >                                      GHAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNAY1.



IBRD 29750
Z4     2                    RUSSIAN    FEDERATION
ASTN
Area o(Alp \
4~~~~
*_J ,       /i z        1 i 4                KAZAKHSTAN
U,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
:~~~~~~~~~~~C I                              A/r    ,,,, ,),  - ,^ Ao c-.
K   L ra       'AZERBAi)AN
50arag..y        . !T.       URKMENISTAN h *'.. TATREEIS-
',> arag andy  ;   >    <    <l_g~   CHINA
ISLAMIC ROPU1CZ* IRAN    AFGHANSA
<+C)   4   'EX  -                                                                   78
KAZAKHSTAN
ROAD TRANSPORT
IBRD                RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
< 1Section X            )    PROJ ECT AREA
ROAD REHABILITATION:
IBRD FINANCED
* J      EAkchato                   ......... ADB FINANCED
-48 0                              Q                                  IsDB FINANCED
0 0 0  ADB Gulshod-  *.,                 *    IBRD FINANCED BRIDGES
Akchotou Section   5
(under implementation)                      ,
2~~~~
Balkhash
Guishad                ),.
&  2            ~~~~IsDB
Section 22               .,<                   _         -V
Saryshaghan
46                IR                                                                          46  -
--SctionsI
17-21
- .? BuruLk    9  <IBRD                                              Idykor
Buru---  y. h   brindge
-'-- 1   ,,       R~~Kanshengel   '    '              d s
72' 74'
MAIN ROADS
RIVERS                 440          J        bridge _
INTERMITTENT STREAMS                            IBRl D
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL                              Sections                           .
- - -  INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
ELEVATIONS, IN METERS:
3000
-2000                 BisT                             ho
1000                                    The bounoories, cclors,denominations and onyother informaion shown
I~2                               KYRGYZ         on this mop do not imply, on the pot of The World Bonk Group, any
500                                     judoment on the leg ostotus of oay territory, or any endorsement or
REPUBLIC    acceptance of such boundaries.       780
JANUARY 1 999



