Page  1
April 4, 1997
His Excellency
Alexander Pavlov
Deputy Prime Minister 
Minister of Finance
Almaty
Republic of Kazakstan
Re:  Japanese Grant No. TF029678 (Road Transport Restructuring Project)
Amendment to the Japanese Grant Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Japanese Grant Agreement (Road Transport Restructuring Project) 
dated March 11, 1997, between the Republic of Kazakstan (the Recipient) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) as Administrator of 
Grant Funds provided by Japan. We also refer to your letter of March 3, 1997, 
requesting that the Japanese Grant Agreement (the Agreement) be amended with a view to 
changing the description of technical assistance in Schedule 2 thereof.
We are pleased to inform you that the  Bank agrees to the above request and the 
Agreement is amended as follows;
1. 
Part A of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended to read:
"Part A:
Program to Strengthen the Capability of the Directorate of Roads 
(DOR)
1.
Review of current quality control systems and staff capability to 
supervise the implementation of roadworks.
2.
Development of alternative modes of organization to carry out 
roadwork supervision.
3.
Provision of assistance to the DOR with respect to: (a) selecting from 
the alternative modes developed under sub-paragraph 2 above; (b) identifying 
equipment needs; and (c) preparation of a program for staff training and 
elaboration of a supervision manual".
2.
Part C of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended to include sub-paragraph 3 as 
follows:
"3.
Testing of control measures, including the provision of four traffic 
counters and four portable weight scales".
3.
Part D is added to the Schedule 2 to the Agreement to read as follows:
"Part D: Road Maintenance
1.
Assessing and prioritizing the maintenance needs on the Almaty-Gulshad 
(600 km) section of the Almaty-Borovoe road.
2.
Identifying equipment needs for the purpose of improving routine road 
maintenance on the Almaty-Borovoe road.
3. 
Formulating a program for staff training and institutional development".
Please confirm your agreement  to the foregoing amendment by signing, 
dating and returning to us the attached copy of this letter. This amendment will 
become effective as of the date hereof upon receipt of your countersigned copy by the 
Bank.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Director
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
Page  2
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
By /s/ Alexander Pavlov
Authorized Representative
Date:
April 30, 1997
