Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4437 KZ
Loan Agreement
(Road Transport Restructuring Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 16, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4437 KZ 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“BIP” means the Board of Investment Projects established by the Borrower 
within RSRE, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
(b)
“DOR” means the Borrower’s Department of Automobile Roads within the 
MOTC, and includes any successor or successors thereto.  
(c)
“DORT” means the Borrower’s Department of Automobile Road Transport 
within the MOTC, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
(d)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and includes any 
successor or successors thereto. 
(e)
“MOTC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and Communications, and 
includes any successor or successors thereto. 
(f)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(g)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters signed by the 
Bank on September 27, 1996, and countersigned by the Borrower on November 18, 1996, 
and an exchange of letters signed by the Bank on September 23, 1998, and countersigned 
by the Borrower on December 23, 1998.
(h)
“RSRE” means the Borrower’s Republican State Road Enterprise, and 
includes any successor or successors thereto. 
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
(j)
“WG” means the Working Group referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of 
interest and other charges on the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of the said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.  
(iii)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
Page  4
out Parts A, B, C and E of the Project through BIP and PIU, and Part D of the Project 
through the WG, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project and carry out Parts A, B, and C of the Project through BIP and 
PIU, Part D of the Project through the WG, all in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. Section 3.02. Except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project objectives; and   
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall take all measures necessary and appropriate to 
ensure satisfactory maintenance of its national, transnational and regional (Oblast) 
road network, including the provision of adequate funding for such maintenance, and 
shall spend for maintenance and rehabilitation of its national and transnational road 
network no less than $100 million equivalent in calendar year 1999, no less than $125 
million equivalent in calendar year 2000, and no less than $150 million equivalent in 
calendar year 2001 and each year thereafter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) by March 31, 2000, review, under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, its system of road user charges and discuss with the 
Bank the result of such review; and (b) increase gradually road user charges paid by 
truck and bus owners or operators so that the sum of all such charges shall be at 
least 75 percent of the road use cost attributable to trucks and buses by September 
30, 2000, and 100 percent of such costs by September 30, 2002, and thereafter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts, and 
report of such audit 
by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
Page  5
and  
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement has been established in the PIU; 
(b)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been appointed to undertake the audit for the first fiscal year during Project 
implementation in accordance with Section 4.01(b) (i) of this Agreement; and 
(c)
the PIU has been established in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement. Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
60 Republic Avenue
473000, Astana
Republic of Kazakhstan
Telex:
Page  6
264126 (FILIN)
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
By /s/ Bolat Nurgaliyev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Fred M. King 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
70%
(a) Under Part A.1 of
  61,800,000
the Project
(b) Under Part A.2 of
  13,200,000
the Project
(2)
Consultants' services,
   5,400,000
100%
including training
and study tours
Page  7
(3)
Goods
(a) Under Part B of
   5,200,000
100% of foreign
the Project
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
(b) Under Parts C, E
   1,400,000
tures 
(ex-factory
and F of the Project
cost) and 80% 
of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(4)
PIU Incremental
   1,100,000
100%
Operating Costs
(5)
Refunding of Project
   1,100,000
Amounts due 
pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(6)
Fee
   1,000,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   9,800,000
TOTAL
 100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs”
means the incremental operating 
costs incurred by the PIU on account of Project implementation, management, monitoring 
and supervision costs, including the cost of office space rental, equipment and 
supplies, utilities, repairs and maintenance thereof, communication, travel, audit of 
Project accounts, and PIU consultants, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)
under Category (1) (b), unless the Borrower has developed the economic, 
technical, environmental and operational data and information acceptable to the Bank 
with respect to the rehabilitation works under Part A.2 of the Project in accordance 
with paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(c)
under Category (3) (a), unless the Borrower has established systems, 
procedures, and technical standards acceptable to the Bank, for programming, 
contracting, and execution of routine and winter maintenance on the Almaty-Karaganda 
road in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and for the 
renting of equipment agreed with the Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent in case of firms, and under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
in case of individuals; and (c) PIU incremental operating costs, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to develop more efficient 
road and road transport subsectors in Kazakhstan.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
PART A: 
REHABILITATION OF NATIONAL ROADS 
1.
Rehabilitation of several selected segments of the national road network, 
totaling about 500 kilometers, including the strengthening and reconstruction of 
pavements, bringing particular road sections to common width standards, some limited 
geometric improvements for safety reasons, improvements to drainage and repairs of 
culverts, and bridge rehabilitation or replacement. 
2.
Rehabilitation of several selected segments of the national road network between 
the cities of Karaganda and Astana, totaling about 100 kilometers, including the 
strengthening and reconstruction of pavements, bringing particular road sections to 
common width standards, some limited geometric improvements for safety reasons, 
improvements to drainage and repairs of culverts, bridge rehabilitation or 
replacement, and construction of bypasses. 
3.
Provision of engineering, procurement and other consultants’ services and 
training for the rehabilitation of national roads and supervision of construction of 
road works.
PART B:
STRENGTHENING OF ROUTINE ROAD MAINTENANCE 
Improvement of the execution capacity of Kazakh road maintenance enterprises 
through the provision of equipment and spare parts for improving routine road 
maintenance.
PART C:
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Improvement of the institutional capacity of key government organizations in the 
road subsector in a sustainable manner through: (a) the establishment of planning, 
budgeting and monitoring procedures for the national and regional road network, based 
on the objective assessment of road condition and the economic analysis of alternative 
solutions, as well as the training of staff of MOTC and local specialists in these 
procedures, and technical support for preparation of national and regional (Oblast) 
budgets in 2001; (b) the establishment of procedures for the supervision of road works 
carried out under contracts on the national and regional road network, as well as the 
training of staff of MOTC and local specialists in these procedures; (c) the 
preparation of training programs for Kazakh contractors in subjects such as bid 
preparation, contract administration, cost control, management, and quality control; 
(d) the strengthening of MOTC training capacity in the above three subjects; and (e) 
provision of consultants’ services, training, study tours, and equipment for road 
condition surveys, traffic surveys, data processing, on-site and laboratory tests, and 
office use.
PART D:
ROAD TRANSPORT LAWS, REGULATIONS AND POLICIES
Development of a modern legal framework for road transport and the improvement 
of the road subsector regulatory regime as well as its enforcement through: (a) the 
improvement and development of laws and regulations pertinent to roads and road 
transport, for example, the regulations on vehicle size and weight, on international 
road freight transport, on traffic rules, on vehicle road worthiness and emissions 
standards, and on inter-city and rural bus route operation, as well as the phasing out 
(where applicable) of obsolete or contradictory regulations; (b) the improvement of 
enforcement activities, through a clarification and better coordination of the roles 
of the enforcement agencies involved, the elimination of duplication and inefficient 
controls, the strengthening of the agencies, and better information of the public; (c) 
Page  9
the improvement of systems to collect and process data on the road transport subsector 
and to monitor its development; (d) the development of a more competitive market for 
the provision of inter-city and rural passenger transport services, including the 
development of independent bus stations; and (e) provision of consultants’ services 
and  training.
PART E:
IMPROVEMENT IN ROAD SAFETY
Improvement in road safety including the following: (a) the setting up of a 
temporary road safety task force and the preparation of a preliminary National Road 
Safety Action Plan and Local Safety Plans, which would outline the main features of 
the national road safety policies, the main actions to be taken in the coming years, 
and monitorable objectives; (b) improvements in the collection and processing of road 
accident data, and in their dissemination, (including improvements in the methods for 
identifying and analyzing black spots); (c) development of road safety research in 
Kazakhstan, including assisting local road safety experts in carrying out detailed 
economic evaluations related to road accidents according to latest international 
procedures, and helping to establish liaison between Kazakh institutes and 
international road safety institutes; (d) improved enforcement of road safety rules 
and regulations by law enforcement entities, including the provision of appropriate 
equipment for the conduct of such activities; (e) the development of a better 
understanding of road safety problems among young people and in the population at 
large and the corresponding promotion of better driving behavior and safer traffic 
practices, including, among other things, road safety publicity and awareness 
campaigns, the dissemination of related materials, road safety teaching in schools, 
and training of road safety instructors and teachers; (f) the review of the state of 
existing, and possible provision of additional, emergency medical and other equipment 
(air ambulances, emergency roadside telephones) for use in dealing with road 
accidents; and (g) provision of consultants’ services, training, study tours, and 
equipment for data collection, processing, and office use.
PART F:
PROJECT MANAGEMENT 
Improvement of the PIU’s capability to manage the Project through the provision 
of consultants’ services, including auditing services, office space, office equipment 
and supplies, utilities, repairs and maintenance, advertising and promotion, 
communication, training, travel, and any other goods and services necessary to the 
PIU’s operations. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
September 15, 2004
2,120,000 
March 15, 2005
2,185,000 
September 15, 2005
2,245,000 
March 15, 2006
2,315,000 
September 15, 2006
2,380,000 
March 15, 2007
2,450,000 
September 15, 2007
2,525,000 
March 15, 2008
2,600,000 
September 15, 2008
2,675,000 
March 15, 2009
2,755,000 
September 15, 2009
2,835,000 
March 15, 2010
2,920,000 
September 15, 2010
3,005,000 
March 15, 2011
3,095,000 
September 15, 2011
3,185,000 
March 15, 2012
3,280,000 
September 15, 2012
3,375,000 
Page  10
March 15, 2013
3,475,000 
September 15, 2013
3,575,000 
March 15, 2014
3,680,000 
September 15, 2014
3,790,000 
March 15, 2015
3,900,000 
September 15, 2015
4,015,000 
March 15, 2016
4,135,000 
September 15, 2016
4,255,000 
March 15, 2017
4,380,000 
September 15, 2017
4,510,000 
March 15, 2018
4,645,000 
September 15, 2018
4,780,000 
March 15, 2019
4,915,000
___________________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for civil works, estimated to cost $5,000,000 or more, shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $4,000,000 equivalent or more each. 
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(d)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Page  11
Goods, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review  
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Part B.1 of this Section, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under Parts C.1 and C.2 of this 
Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank 
a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank 
a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  12
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall, through RSRE, establish, and until completion of the 
Project, maintain a Project Implementation Unit within BIP for coordinating all the 
activities under the Project, and shall ensure that the PIU functions at all times in 
a manner and with such staffing, organization, systems, including financial management 
and control systems, funds, facilities and other resources acceptable to the Bank. The 
PIU shall, for each calendar year during Project implementation, prepare an annual 
budget acceptable to the Bank of its proposed expenditures for the forthcoming year. 
3.
The Borrower shall establish and, until completion of the Project, maintain a 
Working Group comprising representatives of DOTR, the Transport Inspectorate of MOTC, 
and the Legal Division of MOTC to coordinate activities under Part D of the Project, 
and shall ensure that the WG functions at all times in a manner and with such 
Page  13
staffing, funds, facilities and other resources acceptable to the Bank. 
4.
The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1999, formulate, adopt and implement 
systems, procedures, and technical standards, acceptable to the Bank, for the 
programming, contracting, and execution of routine and winter road maintenance on the 
Almaty-Karaganda road.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that the construction of any new segments, if any, 
that may be required for the rehabilitation of roads under the Project, is carried out 
in accordance with the applicable policies of the Bank concerning environment and 
resettlement, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
6.
Before implementing Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall develop 
economic, technical, environmental and operational data and information, under terms 
of reference and of scope and detail acceptable to the Bank, with respect to the 
rehabilitation works under Part A.2 of the Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to US$3,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of US$14,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence acceptable to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.    
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Page  14
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
