                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR0000848




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IBRD-44370)




                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                                     FOR A

            ROAD TRANSPORT SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT




                                  July 31, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Management Unit
Europe Central Asia Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 6, 2008)

                       Currency Unit = Kazakhstan Tenge (KZT)
                                 KZT 1.00 = US$0.0083
                                 US$1.00 = KZT 120.54

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 ­ December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB         -   Asian Development Bank
BIP         -   Board of Investment Projects
CAS         -   Country Assistance Strategy
CBA         -   Cost-benefit Analysis
CTID        -   Committee for Transport Infrastructure Development
DOR         -   Department of Roads
EBRD        -   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMP         -   Environmental Management Plan
EN          -   European Norms
ERR         -   Economic Rate of Return
EU          -   European Union
FSU         -   Former Soviet Union
GNP         -   Gross National Product
HDM 4       -   Highway Design and Maintenance Model, Version 4
IBRD        -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR         -   Implementation Completion Report
IFIs        -   International Financing Institutions
IsDB        -   Islamic Development Bank
ISO         -   International Organization for Standardization
ISR         -   Implementation Status and Results Report
LOA         -   Loan Agreement
M&E         -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOTC        -   Ministry of Transport and Communications
NPV         -   Net Present Value
PAD         -   Project Appraisal Document
PDO         -   Project Development Objective
PSR         -   Project Status Report
QAG         -   Quality Assurance Group
RC          -   Roads Committee
RSRE        -   Republican State Road Enterprise
RUC         -   Road User Charges
TA          -   Technical Assistance
TACIS       -   Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
TOR         -   Terms of Reference
TRACECA     -   Transport Corridor Europe Caucasus Asia
USSR        -   Union of Soviet Socialist Republics

                             Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                          Country Director:       Annette Dixon, ECCU8
                            Sector Manager:       Motoo Konishi, ECSSD
     Project Team Leader/ICR Team Leader:         Henry G. R. Kerali, ECSSD
                       ICR Primary Author:        Antti Talvitie (Consultant)

                                         KAZAKHSTAN
                    Road Transport Sector Restructuring Project


                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
 Annex 3. Economic Analysis: Summary of Cost-Benefit Analysis............................. 26
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 30
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 32
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 37
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38
 MAPS IBRD Nos. 29749 and 29750............................................................................ 39

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Road Transport
Country:                Kazakhstan             Project Name:
                                                                     Restructuring Project
Project ID:             P008499                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-44370
ICR Date:               06/29/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                     KAZAKHSTAN
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 95.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Committee for Transport Infrastructure Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/25/1996    Effectiveness:         01/14/2000        01/14/2000
Appraisal:             06/28/1998    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/09/1999    Mid-term Review:                         11/21/2002
                                     Closing:               12/31/2004        12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:      Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:           Satisfactory           Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                  Quality at Entry     None


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  3                 3
Roads and highways                                               97                 97


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                           Secondary       Not Applicable
Infrastructure services for private sector development          Primary           Primary
Regulation and competition policy                              Secondary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Annette Dixon                      Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:            Motoo Konishi                      Eva Molnar
Project Team Leader:       Henry G. R. Kerali                 Jean-Charles Crochet
ICR Team Leader:           Henry G. R. Kerali
ICR Primary Author:        Antti P. Talvitie



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main development objective of the project is to achieve more efficient road and road
transport sub-sectors in Kazakhstan mainly through:

  (i) improvement of the Almaty-Astana national road;
  (ii) development of routine road maintenance capability on the Almaty-Karaganda
section of the Almaty-Astana road;
  (iii) improvement of the institutional capability of the Kazakh road administration (the
Roads Committee) and local road contractors; and
  (iv) improvement of road transport regulations and road traffic safety.




                                                 ii

  Key development outcome/impact indicators:

  (i) lower cost of road transport on Kazakhstan's main north-south national (Almaty-
Astana) road;
  (ii) increased capability of the RC to plan, budget, implement, and monitor road
expenditures;
  (iii) increased capability of the Kazakh road construction and maintenance industry;
  (iv) increased efficiency of Kazakhstan's road transport sector; and
  (v) reduced number and seriousness of accidents on the Almaty-Karaganda section of
the Almaty-Astana road.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Cost of road transport on Almaty-Astana road sections lower on average by 20%
                (by End Of Project).
Value
quantitative or 100%                      80%                                 About 60%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1999                  06/30/2006                          12/31/2007

Comments        The PDO was achieved. The cost of road transport (to users) has declined about

(incl. %        40%, including time and money. The travel time in the Northern section

achievement)    decreased from 3h30m to 2h30m (-30%) and in the Southern section from 7h to
                5h30m (-22%).

Indicator 2 :   Budgets for national and Oblast roads are justified by sound analyses, and 75%
                of all projects have ERRs of at least 15%
Value
quantitative or 40% (retrospective        75%                                 >75%
Qualitative)    estimate)

Date achieved 12/31/1999                  06/30/2006                          12/31/2007

Comments        The PDO was achieved. The road budget increased from US$165m in 2002 to

(incl. %        1120m in 2007. The budget analyses are based on professional engineering

achievement)    judgment. Based on review it was concluded that road investments undego
                thorough scrutiny and have a high ERR.

Indicator 3 :   Reduction in the total number of road accidents and fatalities between Almaty
                and Karaganda by 20% in proportion to traffic (by EOP)
Value
quantitative or 100%                      80%                                 77%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1999                  06/30/2006                          12/31/2007
Comments        The PDO was achieved. The accident rate (fatal and injury accidents/ADT)


                                                iii

(incl. %       reduced 20% in the Northern section and 27% in the Southern section.
achievement)   However, the total number of fatal and injury accidents doubled--but the traffic
               tripled.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Selected road sections are brought back to a high level of riding quality and
               structural soundness, and to satisfactory safety level.
Value
(quantitative  0km rehabilitated          About 500 km                        467.8 km

or Qualitative)                           rehabilitation                      rehabilitated

Date achieved 12/31/1999                  12/31/2004                          12/31/2005
Comments       The objective was achieved. Selected road sections were rehabilitated as planned.
(incl. %       One optional section (the Karaganda "pass-through") was canceled because of
achievement)   design issues and cost increase.

Indicator 2 :  Sound systems established for planning/budgeting routine maintenance and
               supervision of its execution
Value                                     Routine                             100% routine
(quantitative  Routine maintenance was    maintenance by                      maintenance by
or Qualitative)carried out by labor force contract                            contract
Date achieved 12/31/1999                  12/31/2004                          12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The objective was fully achieved.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP                 Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     07/02/1999           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     12/27/1999           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     06/07/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.81
  4     08/03/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       6.72
  5     04/18/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      18.65
  6     11/28/2001           Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     27.46
  7     05/13/2002           Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     48.52
  8     12/20/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      72.66
  9     06/26/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      82.72
  10    12/30/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      90.19
  11    06/25/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      90.19
  12    12/17/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      90.19
  13    06/20/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      90.19



                                               iv

  14  12/24/2005         Satisfactory     Satisfactory    90.19
  15  06/27/2006         Satisfactory     Satisfactory    92.41
  16  03/18/2007         Satisfactory     Satisfactory    93.88
  17  12/26/2007         Satisfactory     Satisfactory    95.60



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Transport demand and supply. Kazakhstan is endowed with substantial but
underdeveloped natural resources, consequently, her economic base remains narrow. At
the time of project appraisal in 1998 the Kazakhstan economy had experienced a
significant decline and hence neglected her infrastructure for several years. The Gross
National Product (GNP) per capita was a mere US$1220 for the (declining) 16.5 million
people occupying the vast territory of 2,720,000 sq. km (population density of only 6
persons/sq. km). There were reasons to believe that the economy had bottomed out in
1997 as a result of restructuring it toward greater openness and the emergence of
demand-driven markets. Because of location, vastness of territory, and unique geographic
features, Kazakhstan's economy has relied heavily on transport. An efficient transport
sector was an essential element for the development and growth of domestic and
international trade, and for private sector economic activities. The disappearance of trade
patterns associated with the centralized system of production and distribution had
resulted, as in all the former Soviet Union (FSU) countries, in a dramatic drop in the
demand for transport services, especially for rail, and it was not expected to revert to the
high levels of the late 1980s in the foreseeable future.

Nonetheless, as a result of expected economic growth based on natural resources, over
the decade following the appraisal of the project, demand for transport services was
expected to experience a rapid shift towards road transport. Kazakhstan's road transport
system was little prepared to cope with the expected substantial increases in demand.
There had been historical underinvestment in roads, and furthermore, the existing road
network was of a low standard and unsafe. Although a large part of the road network was
paved, it was badly deteriorated, and a large percentage of the rural population did not
have access to all-weather roads.

Transport policy outlook and immediate priorities. The institutional framework for
the transport sector was in flux during project preparation, and there was much instability
about governance in general. The Government had recently restructured the road
administration. The Department of Roads (DOR, later renamed the Roads Committee-
RC) was established as a small policy-making unit in the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MOTC), and created a Board of Investment Projects (BIP) to tackle the
expected demand-supply gap in the sector. As a result, the Government began to consider
a major transport investment and improvement program.

The Government also separated the road maintenance and construction industry from
road administration and either corporatized or privatized it, and resolved that all periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation works were awarded competitively. The Government also
decided to focus the available road sector funds on routine and periodic maintenance.
However, there were no well articulated medium or long term programs at the national,
oblast (regional) or local levels.




                                              1

In order to jump start the transport sector to meet the emerging demands, a road
improvement program focusing on the key corridors1 was considered to be the highest
priority. This was to include institutional support to the roads administration to shore up
planning, budgeting, and implementation systems, and procedures that would ensure that
resources were used efficiently. Training of staff, to begin changing old attitudes and
behavior patterns, was also considered to be important.

Investment strategy. Despite its vital importance to Kazakhstan's economy, most of the
country's road network in all functional classes was in poor condition and deteriorating.
This was primarily the result of the severe fiscal constraints, the inadequacy of road
funding (US$100 million or less annually) for the national and regional roads--less than
a third of the required amount--and, for numerous reasons, the low productivity of the
road works. In addition, as in most other FSU countries, the level and structure of road
user charges (RUCs) were significantly below the costs imposed on the road network by
individual vehicles, especially the heavy vehicles. At the time of Appraisal, among the
Government's top priorities in the transport sector investment strategy, was working with
International Financing Institutions (IFIs) - International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), Asian Development Bank (ADB), and Islamic Development Bank
(IsDB) - to develop and fund road modernization programs in key corridors, improving
cost recovery, and securing steady funding for maintenance of transnational and national
roads..

The Bank had little prior experience in Kazakhstan transport sector. The Bank
undertook a Kazakhstan Transport Sector Review in 1996 (Report No. 15020-KZ,
September 1996) and had begun financing an Urban Transport project in 1994. ADB had
a slowly progressing road rehabilitation project under implementation, and IsDB was
preparing a road rehabilitation project. There was little experiential knowledge of how
the road sector worked in Kazakhstan. The Sector Review provided recommendations for
action and shaped the approach for the Bank's road sector assistance. Discussions
between the Bank and the Government during preparation were structured along the lines
of the report's recommendations, and confirmed the major areas to be supported by the
Bank, through which the eventual PDO was to be achieved: (i) improvement of road
conditions (the Almaty-Astana national road);                 (ii) strengthening of routine road
maintenance capability along the Almaty-Astana road;                     (iii) improvement of the
institutional capacity of the Kazakhstan road administration and local road contractors;
and (iv) improvement of road transport regulations and road traffic safety.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project's development objective was to achieve more efficient road and road
transport sub-sectors in Kazakhstan mainly through the areas identified above:




1North-south (Almaty to Astana, the new capital) and east-west (from the Chinese border via Almaty and
Tashkent to the Russian border).




                                                   2

The PDO is identical in the Loan Agreement (LOA) and the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD); the items specifying how the PDO were to be achieved are summarized below.
Annex 2 of the PAD and the LOA give a detailed list of activities (outputs) to be
undertaken under the following headings:

     1. Rehabilitation of National Roads (about 600 km)2
     2. Strengthening of Routine Road Maintenance (through provision of equipment and
         parts)
     3. Institutional Strengthening (itemized list of five tasks)
     4. Road Transport Laws, Regulations and Policies (itemized list of five tasks)
     5. Improvement in Road Safety (itemized list of seven tasks)
     6. Project Management

Key development outcome/impact indicators were:

     (i)      lower cost of road transport on Kazakhstan's main north-south national
              (Almaty-Astana) road;
     (ii)     increased capability of the Roads Committee to plan, budget, implement, and
              monitor road expenditures;
     (iii)    increased capability of the Kazakhstan road construction and maintenance
              industry;
     (iv)     increased efficiency of Kazakhstan's road transport sector; and
     (v)      reduced number and seriousness of accidents on the Almaty-Karaganda
              section of the Almaty-Astana road.

These indicators basically addressed items (1) and (5) above, for which quantifiable
indicators were possible. Indicators for items 2, 3, 4, and 6 consisted essentially of reports
documenting progress, and are based on the Project Status Report (PSR, renamed
Implementation Status and Results Report, ISR). The indicators are worded slightly
differently in PAD Annex 1, but are essentially the same.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO and the key indicators were not modified.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The beneficiaries of this Project were the individuals and enterprises that are users of the
national road network benefiting directly from lower vehicle operating costs. These
beneficiaries included the shippers within Kazakhstan, and those exporting or importing



2In Annex 2, the PAD lists 470 km road rehabilitation as the output and construction or rehabilitation of
(additional) 100 km (between Astana and Karaganda) subject to "further discussions with the government
... [and to be] undertaken only if the ongoing feasibility studies show they would be justified.." The LOA
does not have this caveat for the 100 km component (section 1.5 in the ICR; para 2 in PART A of the LOA).
As it turned out this output was canceled for design reasons, but the LOA was not changed.




                                                      3

goods, and road users as passenger or operators of passenger vehicles. Consumers and
producers were also expected to benefit from lower transport costs. Government
institutions, such as MOTC, would benefit from the introduction of improved road
administration and management practices, and transport policies and regulations; the
traffic police, and public health organizations, which would see a reduction in the number
of road accident victims requiring treatment; and the road transport industry, Kazakhstan
road consulting, maintenance and construction firms, would benefit from modern design
practices and a stable road budget and road work schedule. The beneficiaries did not
change during the project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
      (i)   Rehabilitation of Priority Sections of National Roads ­ (US$123.2 million),
            including: (a) Civil works for the rehabilitation of several priority sections,
            including bridges and limited improvements in road geometry, of the national
            road network, totaling about 500 km, located along the country's principal
            North-South transport corridor, the Almaty-Karaganda-Astana road. The
            subcomponents were: (i) Rehabilitation of the 215 km-long Akchatau-
            Karaganda section; (ii) Rehabilitation of sections of road between Almaty and
            Gulshad, totaling 255 km; (iii) Bridge reconstruction or replacement; (iv)
            Possible construction of a bypass at Shemolgan, the "Karaganda through-
            pass" the relocation of the Kurty Bridge and the rehabilitation of sections of
            roads between Karaganda and Astana totaling about 100 km. (b) Consultant
            services for supervision of the road works, training, technical assistance to the
            BIP, and those engineering and procurement services for the Project not
            funded by either the PPF advance or from local resources.

      (ii) Strengthening of Routine Road Maintenance ­ (US$5.8 million) to improve
            maintenance capability of DOR and the (corporatized) Oblast road
            maintenance companies on the Almaty-Astana road.            Contingent on the
            establishment of maintenance         planning and implementation processes
            satisfactory to the Bank, the component would provide equipment and spare
            parts to complement training provided under the on-going ADB project.

      (iii) Institutional Strengthening of the Department of Roads and Development of
            the Kazakhstan Road Maintenance and Construction Industry ­ (US$1.7
            million), including: (a) establishment of planning, budgeting and monitoring
            procedures for the national and regional road          network, based on the
            assessment of road condition and economic analysis of alternative solutions,
            as   well as the training of staff for the      preparation of budgets;       (b)
            establishment of procedures for the supervision of road works carried out
            under contracts on national and regional roads, and training of staff; (c)
            preparation of training programs for Kazakhstan contractors in bid preparation,
            contract administration, cost control, management, and quality control; and
            (d) strengthening of DOR's training capability in the above three areas.

      (iv) Improvement in Road Transport Policies and Regulations and in their
            Implementation (US$0.7 million) including: (a) development of laws and


                                             4

           regulations pertinent to road transport; (b) strengthening of enforcement
           agencies and improvement of public information; (c) improvement of road
           data systems; and (d) development of a competitive market for the provision
           of inter-city and rural passenger transport services, including the development
           of independent bus stations.     The component also included provision of
           consultancy services and training.

      (v)  Improvement in Road Safety ­ (US$1.0 million), including: (a) setting up of a
           temporary road safety task force and the preparation of a preliminary National
           Road Safety Action Plan and Local Safety Plans with monitorable objectives;
           (b) improvements in road accident data for identifying black spots; (c)
           development of road safety research in Kazakhstan, including liaisons
           between Kazakhstan institutes and international road safety institutes; (d)
           improved enforcement of road safety rules and regulations, including the
           provision of appropriate equipment; (e) development of a better understanding
           of road safety problems; and (f) review of the existing emergency services.
           The component included the provision of consultancy services, training, study
           tours, and equipment.

      (vi) Project Management ­ (US$.2 million) for the incremental project
           management costs, including office space, equipment and supplies, auditing
           services, training, communication, and travel.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not revised. However, as noted earlier one contract in the first
project component, the `Karaganda through-pass', item (iv) in Section 1.5(1) was
canceled for design reasons.

1.7 Other significant changes
Because of accelerated deterioration of road segments under very heavy traffic, several of
the road segments had to be redesigned to meet the expected traffic load and design
standard of the road class.

A loan covenant required increased road user charges to gradually cover 100 percent of
the road maintenance costs due to road use. In the first year of implementation, the
Government indicated that the increase in road user charges was not warranted and that it
would cover the agreed road funding targets from the general tax revenues.

The loan was extended two times for a total of three years, mostly to complete the
institutional components (components 3-5) of the loan.




                                             5

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Lessons taken into account. As mentioned, this was the Bank's first project in the
Kazakhstan road sector. The project design reflected the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) strategy in Kazakhstan and lessons from road projects elsewhere in the
region. More importantly, the design reflected the Bank's change of emphasis from
simply funding road construction and maintenance of the 1970s and 1980s to institutional
development. The guiding principles for the Bank's road projects in the 1990s had to do
with sector governance frameworks, sustainability through greater funding and coverage
of road costs from road user charges, through (environmental) quality assurance of works,
inclusion of road users and affected interests' viewpoints in setting priorities and in road
management, and attention to competitive procurement and private sector development
both in consultancy and implementation.

The project design embraced these broad, institutional concerns. This was not without
risks and drawbacks.         Introduction of new concepts for road administration and
management and for road safety, found useful in the developed countries, in the midst of
badly deteriorated infrastructure and governance turmoil, is a difficult and lengthy
undertaking. It can easily overload a fledgling domestic sector capacity and result in a
lack of interest to institutional development when the practice had emphasized "material"
aspects of building and occasionally maintaining roads--often with outdated standards
and equipment. Experiential knowledge about institutional issues, and creating interest
for it, can only be developed gradually during the change process itself.

Risks. The risks, outlined above, were not ignored in project design, although concrete
measures to deal with intangible issues turned out to be difficult. Substantial risks were
anticipated in the Government's unwillingness to adopt new laws, regulations and
enforcement mechanisms, and the lack of cooperation between different ministries.
Several others were identified as modest risks: (i) insufficient funding; (ii) institutional
inertia to put newly learned concepts and capabilities to work; (iii) disruptive
reorganization within Government; and (iv) disappointing use of technical assistance (as
was being experienced in the ADB-financed road maintenance component). On the other
hand, and somewhat in contradiction to the above, (un)willingness of management and
staff to learn and implement and use new procedures was rated as a negligible risk.
Mitigation measures included the customary: (i) effective consultative process between
the road users and the Government, (ii) continued dialogue between the Bank and the
Government, (iii) dissemination of best practice information, (iv) monitoring of road
sector performance, and (v) Technical Assistance (TA) coordination with other IFIs.

Only six months after Effectiveness the risks materialized and were all rated `substantial',
with the exception of willingness to learn and implement new activities, which was
upgraded to `modest' from negligible.




                                             6

Quality at Entry. There was no Quality Assurance Group (QAG) quality at entry review
of the project. The project experience confirms that this first transport sector project in
Kazakhstan attempted too much and had too many institutional development components,
focusing on details for which there was little experiential knowledge and capacity in
Kazakhstan.     There is little doubt that wide-ranging and far-reaching institutional
restructuring and capacity building was necessary; some of it had already been initiated
before the project start. Many of the tasks were logically interrelated making concurrent
change seem attractive. But to undertake everything simultaneously made the
restructuring task seem even harder, inviting reform-fatigue. The change in key
management personnel, the lack continuity and consequent lack of information and
understanding of the client's capacity and intentions for change made the institution-
building components too ambitious.          For example, in institutional strengthening,
"...developing planning, budgeting and monitoring procedures for the national and
regional road network, based on the assessment of road condition and economic analysis
of alternative solutions..." (PAD p. 24) requires at least a rudimentary transport policy, a
medium term plan, a road condition data register, or at least capacity and equipment for
data collection, and use of quantitative information in programming of projects. All of
this had to be rethought with the new staff where there was little or no experiential
knowledge, and required (disruptive) reorganization of the road administration. On the
regulatory side, an early introduction of new "...laws and regulations pertinent to road
transport; and, [strengthening] of enforcement agencies and improvement of public
information..." [PAD p. 24] was also an extremely complicated and challenging task
involving many interests. A gradual approach through amendments to current laws and
regulations would have been more appropriate.

On the other hand, many aspects of the project were appropriate and within the
experience and understanding of the client, including: the project's road works in one of
the country's most important transport corridors; adoption of new, contract based routine
maintenance procedures with new equipment; recasting the supervision of road works
under contracts, training of staff in their application and in contract administration; and
training Kazakhstan contractors in bid preparation, cost control, management, and quality
control.

In sum, the road works--95 per cent of the loan--and the consultancies relating to the
implementation of the works were well thought-out and were also implemented with
motivation. Their quality of entry was good. The institutional component dealt with
good issues, but there is a question about the right entry point and timing to address them.
Experience elsewhere has shown that the policy, planning, road data collection, and road
laws and regulations should be started slowly, and cannot be completed in one project, let
alone in the first one. However, as mentioned in the Lessons section, at the time of
project preparation, Bank management regarded infrastructure as a sunset activity and if
an infrastructure project were to be approved, its justification had to rest on governance
reform and restructuring of the organization and its operating practices. This ethos makes
understandable the institution development component of the loan, which in retrospect
was too ambitious and risky at the start.




                                             7

2.2 Implementation
Implementation Schedule of the Road Works. The road works started briskly and nine
of the ten road rehabilitation contracts were signed and started within six months from
Effectiveness. Delays and cost increases were experienced in the execution of most
contracts.     The delays derived from outdated equipment or the lack of equipment,
inexperience of local (sub)contractors, and uncertainties about the detailed engineering
designs. The cost increases ­in one case 50 per cent­ were caused by two main factors:
worldwide increase in the bitumen price, and variation orders for the redesign (of five of
the nine contracts) of badly deteriorated roads under unexpectedly heavy truck traffic.
The redesign also occasioned disputes and contract increases with the foreign supervision
consultants, which eventually were resolved.                Nonetheless, despite all the changes,
intermittent disarray and inexperience in modern contracting, the road works were
completed before the original closing date.

Although the bid prices were lower than the engineering estimates, the sum of the cost
increases was higher than the available loan proceeds, including contingencies. To close
the financing gap, a reallocation of funds from the TA component was contemplated.
Somewhat fortuitously, however, it had been earlier decided to cancel one contract in the
Astana-Karaganda segment, the `Karaganda through-pass', for design reasons. With the
cancellation no reallocation was necessary (as discussed in sections 1.2, 1.5, and 1.6).

Early signs of deterioration developed in one of the contract segments (Saryshagan ­
Burubaital). The contractor failed to do the remedial works and the contract was
terminated. A consultant was contracted to assess the required remedial works to be
carried out, and estimated it at approximately US$3 million. However, the project closed
before the contract for the remedial works was completed by another contractor3, and are
now being undertaken at Government expense.

Implementation of Routine Maintenance. The procurement of equipment to improve
routine maintenance, which was contingent on the establishment of satisfactory routine
maintenance planning and implementation processes, prepared under ADB consultancy,
were found to be incompatible with efficient (winter) maintenance operations. Much
work was required in terms of division of responsibility between the Roads Committee
and the Oblast branches of the Republican State Road Enterprise (RSRE, or
Kazakhavtodor), and the work procedures and standards before acceptance for
procurement and disbursement could be made. The lack of progress in the routine
maintenance component frustrated intensely the Bank supervision missions and, at one
point, the Bank suggested canceling the entire component. Eventually, a pilot plan for



3It is normal in Bank supported projects that the retention monies (5-10%) are subtracted from the invoices
and the accumulated retention is returned to the contractor at the conclusion of the warranty period--or
used to pay for the remedial works.       The retention monies are subtracted from the Government's
counterpart funds while the Bank's share is paid in full. In this way the project can be closed before the
remedial works are completed.




                                                      8

one maintenance depot was developed and implemented that incorporated a better
contractual and technical approach before scaling it up throughout the maintenance
organization. At long last a much improved maintenance plan evolved and the component
was completed satisfactorily.

Most Institutional Strengthening Funded by the Government. The consultancies for the
procedures for the supervision of road works, training of staff and preparation of training
programs for Kazakhstan contractors in bid preparation, contract administration, cost
control, management, and quality control were done promptly and proved to be of useful
service during the project.

However, the institutional strengthening tasks and the road safety component experienced
delays, and after initial enthusiasm and support from MOTC and the preparation of
Terms of Reference (TORs), the Government decided not to use loan monies for the
remaining technical assistance tasks. The Government proposed instead to cancel the rest
of the institutional and road safety component from the loan, but agreed to pay for these
TA tasks from the state budget, to be carried out by local consultants, and from the
concurrent European Union (EU) Transport Corridor Europe Caucasus Asia
(TRACECA)/ Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
(TACIS) programs on the road laws and road safety regulations. The Bank, initially
suspicious, negotiated a modus vivendi according to which the TORs would require the
Bank's `no objection' and the Bank team would supervise them as if the Bank financed
them. The use of local consultants and Bank supervision turned out to be a good
compromise and perhaps the only way to complete the institutional component.

Risk Status. The achievement of the PDO was never at risk. However, due to
unsatisfactory progress in the TA components, the implementation progress was rated at
risk from late 2001 until government financing of the TA components was secured a year
later.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The Project was monitored through a limited number of output and outcome indicators
that could be measured using existing data collection mechanisms, such as traffic counts,
or easily organized data collection activity. The values for the indicators were provided
by the RC during the supervision missions. The output indicators were complemented
with the more detailed reports provided by RC on the progress of the road components.
Overall the indicators have allowed the confirmation of the achievement of the PDO.
The values of the indicators are reported in Part F of the Summary Data Sheet at the
beginning of this Implementation Completion Report (ICR).

The outcome indicator on road user costs in the corridor shows the extent to which
rehabilitation of the Astana-Almaty corridor has improved the road user service, and the
Economic Rate of Returns (ERRs), embodying both the traffic volumes and the
improvements, and reflects the increase in economic activity and mobility of the
population along the corridor. The reduction in accident rates shows the extent to which
the Project has contributed to improved road safety in the corridor. These indicators were



                                             9

collected from traffic counts, the benefit-cost analysis, and the reports issued by the
Traffic Police.

The output indicators were a mixture of numerical indicators and reports. Those related to
the progress in the road works were based on the monthly progress reports by the
supervision teams. The institutional capacity strengthening was measured through the
completion of the training of the Oblast staff, and restructuring of the maintenance
activities leading to the acquisition of maintenance equipment.

The choice of indicators was reasonable. They allowed adequate measurement of the
level of achievement of the PDO. In hindsight, however, the project's Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) was too parsimonious. It could have been improved with the inclusion
of more specific indicators (such as a measure of transport tariffs along the corridor, road
condition, increased allocation of resources to maintenance, and reduction of truck
overloading incidents) to provide a stronger focus on outcomes. The indicators relating to
the institutional strengthening actions could also have been enhanced through variables
reflecting improvements in specific areas (such as Information Security Office (ISO)
certification of contractors, use of a road management system in planning and
programming, and the number of responsive bids by Kazakhstan contractors to replace
"sound analysis" and "sound systems" in place). Nonetheless, the Bank supervision
missions exchanged views with the Roads Committee and Oblast highway authorities (as
described in the Aide Memoirs) to provide an assessment of institutional processes and
capacities related to the policies being partially supported or supervised under the project.

The RC and the Oblasts should also have adopted systematic road condition
measurements to supplement the twice yearly visual inspections. Even though the visual
inspection system, conducted by a trained engineer, who also is responsible for proposing
and planning actions on his road segment4, is valuable in terms of local knowledge and
historical engineering knowledge about the road and adequate, and perhaps consistent
with the level of computerization in the RC Oblast road administration, it cannot replace
mechanized road condition measurements, registered in a road data system with a
geographic referencing system.          The development of such data systems, as was
prescribed in one of the TORs for technical assistance, would have been consistent with
the project objectives and underpin engineering-economic analyses and prioritizing of
road improvements.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environment and Social. This was a Category B project. There was no land acquisition,
the Project's main negative impacts were limited to the road works (from the
construction equipment, the asphalt mixing plants, quarries, erosion and run-offs, traffic
safety at construction sites, etc.). The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was
prepared and included in the contract documents as part of the final engineering. The


4 In the Oblasts, each road segment is assigned a responsible engineer who collects the road data
information, makes recommendations for improvements, and is an `advocate' for the road's condition.




                                               10

contractors were also required to employ environmentally sound work methods and
equipment, all of which were monitored by the supervision engineers. Overall, the project
had positive impact on the environment through improved road condition resulting in less
wear and tear on the vehicles, less pollution, less dust, and a more appealing appearance.

Participatory approach. The corridor connects important cities and serves primarily
long distance traffic (see map). Lacking a consultative culture, only a limited number of
direct beneficiaries could be identified and consulted. The transport companies and the
Truckers' Association were consulted with regard to the road transport regulations--such
as overloading--and road safety. Important stakeholders included government
departments and staffs from DOR, MOTC, and the Kazakhstan technical and research
institutes for roads and road transport. They were involved in project identification and
in the review of priority expenditures.        Preparation of the proposed Project was
coordinated with other international donors and financing entities active in Kazakhstan,
the Asian Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, EBRD, and the European
Union (TACIS). As a result, the economically justified road rehabilitation works between
Almaty and Karaganda (almost 1000 km) were carried out through mutually-coordinated
projects. For example, the Islamic Development Bank financed the rehabilitation of an
88-km long road section (originally planned to be part of the Bank project) for which the
pre-engineering work was financed from the Project Preparation Facility the Bank made
available to the Kazakhstan Government.

Fiduciary compliance. The financial management system during implementation had
no significant changes from the one agreed at appraisal. The project continued to
maintain the financial management system that was acceptable to the Bank and provided
reasonable assurances that the proceeds of the loan were used for the purposes for which
the loan was granted. While that was true in general, there was one prolonged financial
management issue that was resolved through the joint efforts of the Bank and the
Ministry of Finance. In one consulting contract a disbursement over a two year period
was made using the inverse of the exchange rate (to Australian dollars). This resulted in
an overpayment of about US$400,000. The error had also escaped the external project
auditors' examination of the financial records in project audits for two consecutive years.
The Bank's disbursement system could not reconcile the payments made with the
invoices presented for payment. After numerous requests for rectification with no results,
the Bank suspended the replenishment of the Designated Account until all the issues
having to do with price escalation, variation orders, and account reconciliation were
resolved. The Bank sent a fiduciary mission to carry out a Joint Fiduciary Review with
the Ministry of Finance. The error was found and the commercial bank where the error
was made returned the overpayment to the Bank's designated account. The MOF and the
Bank agreed that the implementing entity--now called the Committee for Transport
Infrastructure Development (CTID), after the Project Implementation Unit was integrated
within the Roads Committee--had not met the financial management obligations
specified in the Loan Agreement. An action plan was developed and carried out for the
CTID finance team to satisfy the LOA requirement.




                                             11

Regarding audit compliance, the Government complied with the legal agreement to
submit annual audit reports to the Bank before deadlines up to and including 2005 (when
the project's road works were completed); the remaining audit is being processed. With
the exceptions noted above and after corrections, the audit reports were considered
acceptable to the Bank.

Procurement. Although procurement of the road works and consultants went smoothly,
there were several procurement issues during the contracts that required Bank attention.
These included lapses in having variation orders approved by the Bank, delays for
signing the contract for remedial works, and unauthorized payments for incidental
services. As noted earlier a segment in the Almaty-Gulshad road needed remedial repairs.
There were delays in the finalization of that contract due to the inability of the selected
contractor to obtain performance security and advance payment guarantee from a local
bank. Eventually the delays exceeded the project closing date and the repair works had to
be done outside the project as the Ministry of Finance did not approve a request for the
third extension of the closing date. The CTID also overpaid from its own funds the
suppliers of road maintenance equipment to cover incidental services. The practice was,
nonetheless, unacceptable in Bank financed projects. The Bank requested changes in
procurement practice by designating a senior CTID staff to be responsible for
procurement and, when necessary, consult senior management for advice.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The Astana Almaty road is being maintained by the (two) Oblast Kazakhavtodor state
owned enterprises under separate contracts. Maintenance activities, restructured as part
of the project's equipment purchase component, are being supported with the new
maintenance equipment and three axle load weigh stations. Fines are issued to overloaded
trucks. In addition, in order to prevent premature rutting, heavy trucks with over 8 ton
axle loads are excluded during the daylight hours in the summer time. These latter actions
are helping reduce the substantial negative impacts to the pavement that come from high
temperatures during the summer time and heavy trucks.

As a result of technical assistance to structure road maintenance in a new way, including
the acquisition of modern road maintenance equipment, the road is likely to be well
maintained. Field observation and discussions with the road engineers supported this
judgment. The repair of the defects in one contract in the Gulshad-Almaty section is
underway and would be in maintainable condition at the end of this construction season.

The Kazakhstan road experts within the RC believe, nonetheless, that maintenance
funding is not fully at the level required. This is a complex problem. The capital funding
needs in Kazakhstan road sector are large. Maintaining a few roads in excellent condition
when other roads are deteriorating even more rapidly, or already are in poor condition,
not to mention the needs of the other sectors, present a challenge to formulating equitable
prioritization criteria.

The lack of money is not the only problem. Maintenance work itself also faces challenges
and complex problems with no quick solutions. Kazakhstan does not have its own
production of good quality bitumen and good aggregate material is often several hundred


                                             12

kilometers away. Most bitumen comes from Russia, which bitumen, as is well known,
has a high sulphur and paraffin content making the asphalt brittle and subject to rapid
aging. Use of hard bitumen to counteract rutting magnifies the problem of transverse
cracking caused by the high sulphur and paraffin content. Additives that are often used to
counteract the problem associated with hard bitumen make the asphalt mix plastic that
ruts easily in high temperature.

Yet, as noted earlier, improvements in maintenance techniques, new equipment, twice-
yearly data collection, trained staff, the emergence of ISO certified contractors, improved
programming of maintenance works, and the emphasis being given to maintenance are
expected to enhance the allocation of resources and effectiveness of upkeep of the
republican road assets.

The Government is aware of the bitumen and asphalt mix design issues and is pursuing a
longer-term solution by building a bitumen production facility, acquiring bitumen from
other sources (Iran), adopting (USA's) Superpave or European EN standard design mix
methods, and pursuing research on the subject.          Some roads which have a high
percentage of long distance truck traffic are also being built with concrete pavement. The
follow-on project, now under preparation, should pursue further improvements in the
maintenance function, including mix design, bitumen additives, use of harder aggregate
to prevent rutting, and long term performance and cost comparisons of asphalt and
concrete pavements.

Finally, this project--and probably the projects financed by other IFIs--has clearly had a
positive effect on the Roads Committee's functioning.            The Committee has now
articulated in writing the key issues and the general priorities of the road sector. This is a
significant advance and is serving well the ongoing preparation of the new project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project development objective was consistent with the Bank's assistance
strategy and the new Kazakhstan's transport development strategy. The project's
main component, the Almaty-Astana corridor, is part of the National Highway System
and the top road sector priority of the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry has recently
articulated the sector's priorities, international corridors topping the list, followed by
improvements of other republican roads, and improvement of other oblast and local road
networks. Improving maintenance to provide year-round access are the priorities at the
Oblast and local levels also has a high priority.

The Project was fully consistent with the CAS then and now. One of the pillars in both
documents, among other objectives, is to support private sector-led growth and improve
the competitiveness of the various regions of Kazakhstan, and address the needs of
disadvantaged groups and underdeveloped regions through the financing of infrastructure
in key corridors. The Project would make road transport cheaper and more reliable, thus
promoting international and domestic trade, an essential element of private sector-led



                                             13

growth. The Project would also facilitate the development of an important Kazakhstan
industry (the road maintenance and construction industry, now fully corporatized or
privatized), and help modernize the State in a sector (transport) that requires large
government expenditures, thus also supporting those important CAS objectives.

Well selected project components. On the physical infrastructure side, the corridor was
well chosen and supported the integration of the country and long-distance transport to
facilitate domestic and international trade, and also, the needs for mobility of the corridor
population and for facilitating commerce by the local producers in its area of influence.
The institutional components were also appropriate, although, as already discussed, some
of them were introduced too early to be truly of value and effective.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project development objectives were largely achieved.            As shown below, the
objectives relating to improving the Almaty-Astana national road and the routine
maintenance capacity in the corridor were achieved. Achievement of the other objectives,
strengthening the capacity of the Kazakhstan road administration and local contractors,
improving road transport regulations and traffic safety is more difficult to assess. There
are strong indications that the strengthening of the Kazakhstan road administration and
local contractors was fully achieved. The weakest achievement relates to the expected
improvement in the road transport regulations and traffic safety, although even in these
areas progress was made.

      (a)   Improvement of the Almaty-Astana national road. Since the completion of
            the rehabilitation works traffic on the road has increased and serves the
            increased trade flows in the corridor. Save one segment between Almaty and
            Gulshad, which is being repaired, the road is in good condition.

      (b)   Development of routine road maintenance capability on the Almaty-
            Karaganda section of the Almaty-Astana road. The acquisition of modern
            maintenance equipment was conditioned on developing an acceptable road
            (routine) maintenance plan and program for the Almaty-Astana road segment,
            based on prior technical assistance and training on the matter in an ADB loan.
            After determined efforts, and good supervision from the Bank, this finally
            succeeded, although the nature of the problems is unclear and there were no
            performance indicators relating to this matter -- excepting the successful
            procurement of the maintenance equipment, conditioned on satisfactory
            maintenance plan. The new equipment and technology in maintenance and
            rehabilitation spawned the introduction of new curriculums in regional
            educational centers for road organizations in Almaty, Kostanay, Uralsk, and
            Ust-Kameogorsk for training staff.

            In addition, the RC made progress in controlling truck overloading, which is a
            serious issue in Kazakhstan's roads. The excess weight that a truck carries
            beyond the allowed axle load significantly damages the road pavement
            structure, requiring more frequent and more expensive road maintenance
            interventions. A proactive management approach is in effect. Load controls


                                             14

    at the three points and restricting summertime axle loads to 8 tons during the
    day and 10 tons at night has led to a reduction in overloading and the rate of
    rutting of the asphalt pavement.

(c) Improvement of the institutional capability of the Kazakhstan road
    administration (the Roads Committee) and local road contractors. Although
    the Ministry of Finance withdrew loan support for the institutional
    development component, the Kazakhstan road administration evolved through
    many stages during the project, and is currently, as an organization structure,
    synchronous with Western road administrations with separated client and
    supplier functions. A Road Sector Development Program for 2006-2012 was
    developed with clear priorities. In the project context there was a successful
    (and quickly implemented) training in supervision, contract management and
    cost estimation. There are also other indications of progress with institutional
    capacity. The establishment of modernized education programs has already
    been mentioned. Procurement and financial management functions improved
    through trial and error and diligent supervision by the Bank. The tender
    commission has provided an incentive for domestic contractors to obtain an
    ISO certificate in "Quality Management System" (9001) with a certified
    private road laboratory. Of the 80 road construction companies in Kazakhstan,
    49 have so far obtained the ISO certificate. Finally, but belatedly, a partially
    automated road data collection system has recently been set up as part of the
    agreed technical assistance program.

(d) Improvement of road transport regulations and road traffic safety. The
    Ministry of Finance also withdrew loan support to studies on regulations and
    traffic safety, but agreed to fund them from the budget using local consultants.
    The Bank consented to this approach provided it approved the TORs and
    could supervise the consultancy work. Three studies were completed on the
    following: (i) the establishment of a system for planning, budgeting and
    monitoring road maintenance; (ii) development of policies and regulations for
    road transport; and (iii) preparation of guidelines for road safety management.
    The outcomes of these studies are not completely clear. According to RC, a
    system for planning, budgeting and monitoring road maintenance that covers
    the entire country has been established. This system relies on visual inspection,
    with some automated support. Time-bound preparation of budgets and
    justified proposals for actions are approved/modified centrally by the RC to
    maintain consistency throughout the country. There has also been much
    activity in the policy and regulatory areas. Between 2003 and 2005, eighty-
    four "normative documents" and standards were revised and, where
    appropriate, harmonized according to international requirements.




                                      15

Road safety is receiving attention, but the situation has not significantly improved,
although the accident rate, measured as injury and fatal accidents per ten million veh-km5,
has gone down due to increased traffic and the target was achieved as shown by the
indicator values in table.          However, in actual numbers the number of injuries and
fatalities has increased from 124 to 248, a hundred percent increase.

                  Accident rates on Almaty - Astana: Baseline and Actual
  Monitoring Indicator                     Road Section           1998         2007          2007
  (injury and fatal accident/ten                                Baseline      Target        Actual
  million veh-km)
  Accident rate                        Karaganda ­                1.49         1.20          1.21
                                       Akchatau
  Accident rate                        Almaty-Gulshad             2.42         1.90          1.71

3.3 Efficiency
Economic efficiency.        An ex post cost-benefit analysis (CBA) was conducted for the
rehabilitation works of the road sections between Almaty and Karaganda included in the
project. The evaluation was done using the Highway Development and Management Model
(HDM-4), which simulates life cycle conditions and costs and provides economic decision
criteria for road construction and maintenance activities. The results of this CBA show the road
sections perform well with regard to the standard criteria for measuring the performance of an
investment: The project yields an Net Present Value (NPV) of US$269.1 million, and an
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 290.1 percent. All road sections lie well above the 12 percent
rate of return threshold, with positive NPV values confirming the suitability of the project. Details
of the economic analysis are included in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
This rating derives from the high relevance of project objectives, the choice of the road
corridor to be rehabilitated, and reaching of the indicator values chosen to measure the
achievement of the PDO. The road corridor was rehabilitated as planned; there was a
satisfactory achievement of the highway maintenance objective; the Kazakhstan road
administration was restructured and modernized; there was modest achievement in
strengthening institutional capacity and traffic safety improvements; and highly
satisfactory economic efficiency of the project-financed investments.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
There were no objectives or indicators relating to these themes




5A more appropriate measure in Kazakhstan context would be accidents per population or per vehicle park,
but due to difficulty to establish the relevant area for such numbers, the measure used in the developed
countries was employed.




                                                    16

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Institutional change and strengthening identified, in the PAD and the LOA, numerous
activities to be studied and implemented under three headings:

              Institutional Strengthening of the Department of Roads and Development of
              the Kazakhstan Road Maintenance and Construction Industry
              Improvement in Road Transport Policies and Regulations and in their
              Implementation
              Improvement in Road Safety

However, the Ministry of Finance decided not to employ foreign consultants for technical
assistance and proposed to cancel most of the TA activities from the loan. The Bank
persisted, however. Some training activities were carried out as part of the supervision
consultancy and the rest were carried out by local consultants supervised by the Bank
under revised TORs approved by the Bank during supervision. These TORs, three in
number, matched the headings of the activity in the PAD and the LOA. However, the
precise content of the TORs included most but not all the activities described in the PAD
and the LOA. Some of the results of these studies are still under implementation, but for
reasons discussed earlier the ambitious institutional development goals of the project
were only moderately achieved.

A well-designed training program to strengthen RC capacity in construction supervision
was successfully carried out. Contractor capacity to carry out road rehabilitations and
routine maintenance was improved with the emergence of a substantial number of ISO
certified domestic contractors.     In routine maintenance, a sustainable maintenance
organization, institutionally separated from the client organization, was adapted from the
existing force account throughout the country as a corporatized state owned enterprise
working for the RC under contract.

The project's other institutional strengthening themes: articulation of priorities for the
sector, improvements for road administration and highway maintenance management,
recommendations for fund allocation, and a sustainable system for planning and
programming of maintenance activities were also achieved.

Improvement in Road Transport Policies and Regulations lacks precise documentation.
The most noteworthy is the control of overloading at the Oblasts, and ranks high as an
institutional accomplishment. Eighty-four regulations and norms were modernized. Road
data collection has been improved and partially mechanized.           However, the PAD
objectives for this component were expressed vaguely as "improvements". On the whole,
progress is being made on this theme, which probably also was the original intention.

On traffic safety, the scope of the planned institutional development was broad. Again,
the results are not well documented (at least in English). The target for accident rate
reduction was achieved, there is an accident data base, and police surveillance was
observed on the roads.




                                             17

It would have been desirable to have one or two performance indicators for the
consultancies even if they were funded by the Government.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
There were no unintended outcomes or impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The project's main component, Almaty-Astana road and the benefits it generates are
not subject to risk. The traffic is growing, the road is in good condition, and maintenance
funding has increased. There is proactive control of overloading and good engineering
surveillance of road condition, which forms the basis for maintenance recommendations.
However, in view of projected traffic growth, an increase in road capacity is likely to be
needed in the foreseeable future.

There is a risk that traffic safety will deteriorate unless steps are taken to remove
selected black spots, maintain enforcement of traffic rules, and increase awareness
about traffic safety. Although the road is on level terrain, there are a few black-spots due
to inferior road geometry and slow-moving vehicles. As mentioned, traffic growth will
require the construction of another carriageway in the foreseeable future to mitigate
congestion and increased accident risk.

On the institutional side the organization structure and separation of administrator/
manager and supplier functions will remain. Improvements in staff skills resulting from
the institutionalized regional training programs are likely to remain in the road sector
entities even if there is staff turnover. Also certain is the sustainability of improvements
in the management of highway maintenance, and of improvements in standards and
norms, whose implementation will continue in the coming years.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project objectives related to rehabilitation of an important corridor, improving
maintenance and road safety, strengthening the institutional capacity in the road sector,
and modernizing road traffic regulations and policies were in line with the country's and
the Bank's priorities. They were highly relevant. However, the institutional objectives
were clearly too ambitious for the first road project in Kazakhstan. The activities to
achieve the objectives were broad in scope, worded vaguely and difficult to monitor.
There was too much reliance on "sound practices" without specifying what that meant in
the Kazakhstan context, instead of specific and monitorable indicators.




                                              18

The marginally satisfactory rating must, however, be qualified as it may be viewed unfair.
It should be noted that, in addition to the reasons given above, the project was in line with
the Bank ethos at the time of preparation. Its design reflected the values, methods, and
objectives of the Bank at the time. There were no proven techniques to bring about
institutional change and no tangible indicators had been developed to monitor or measure
the result. Furthermore, the changes in key personnel and the Government's refusal to
accept foreign consultants, was totally unexpected. Under the circumstances, the Bank
did as well as was possible. A prudent and slower course with a more modest institution
development program, likely more effective in the long run, would have been advisable

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision was instrumental in the achievement of the PDO given the turbulent
governance environment. The missions followed project implementation closely, with an
average of two supervision missions per year. The missions gave practical and useful
advice, upheld the Bank's high standards, and saw to it that training of local professionals
in supervision and contract management was done promptly. Supervision missions
insisted on a satisfactory routine maintenance plan before permitting the procurement of
modern equipment.

The missions were also concerned with enhancing the impact of institutional
development activities. While consenting to the Government's decision not to fund TA
from the loan but from the budget, the missions insisted that the Bank approve the TOR
and supervise the consultancy work. This approach ensured that the institutional
components were carried out, although in traffic safety the progress was marginal.

Finally, missions paid close attention to financial management and procurement and
corrective actions were taken to provide for learning and to ensure that the Bank's
safeguards were diligently observed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The satisfactory rating for overall Bank performance results from highly satisfactory
implementation of the project's infrastructure component with a high ERR, satisfactory
ratings for Bank performance ensuring a reasonable quality at entry for the first road
project in Kazakhstan and from well-performed supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory
The Government took active interest in the project, especially its civil works components,
from start to finish. The central government agencies provided satisfactory support for
the project, and worked cooperatively with the Bank to fix problems to achieve results
agreed in the Loan Agreement. Funding for road sector maintenance has increased as
agreed during preparation. In general, funding for project execution was satisfactory,



                                              19

although funding for technical assistance activities was in doubt for a while and slowed
project implementation.

There are three exceptions to this positive evaluation. The Government was committed
through a loan covenant to increase road user charges gradually to 100 percent of the cost
of road use by the end of the project. The Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning
decided, however, that increased taxation of road users was not desirable and increased
the annual allocation for road maintenance from the state budget, but the covenant was
never fulfilled although the increased road sector funding was. The second concerns the
approach to implementing several of the institution building components of the project,
which necessitated two project extensions. Although most of the institution building
components were completed at Government expense and key Borrower actors during
implementation were not the same as during project preparation, it is not clear why
resistance to institution building (assistance by foreign consultants) arose. The third
exception is the most troubling one: The Government is still negotiating with the auditors
the payment terms of the final project audit.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The implementing agency was very effective from the start of the project with regard to
the road rehabilitation works, which were completed by the original closing date. In one
segment, defects appeared and correction was slow because of the contractor's refusal to
undertake them. Nonetheless, the implementing agency was persistent and the defects
were corrected after project completion. On the institutional side, the training program to
supervise road works and improve contractor capacity was carried out swiftly, and terms
of references were prepared for the Bank's approval for the remaining technical
assistance activities.

The implementing agency had a learning curve in preparing an acceptable maintenance
plan for the project road. This resulted in a late start for procuring the maintenance
equipment. The implementing agency was also eager to undertake the institutional
consultancy studies until the Government decided not to fund them from the loan. Once
Government funding was obtained, the consultancies were carried out, although
sluggishly and according to the original plans (which may explain the seeming lack of
interest), and requiring project extensions. The implementing agency needs to improve
its contract archiving function.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. This is based on the ratings of
the Government and the implementing agency and also considering that the project
outcome is satisfactory and is deemed to be sustainable.

6. Lessons Learned

1. The country's administrative culture is an important determinant of success in
institutional development.       The project had an ambitious and broad institutional


                                             20

development program. This was undoubtedly influenced by the awareness and technical
competence of the key managers in the sector during preparation.              However, the
development program tottered and eventually was implemented only in part. This result
came about because the institutional development program depended on many entities
other than the road administration. These other entities may not have understood the
planned program, or had other objectives, and this had an effect on the final process and
outcome. Therefore, it is important that all involved actors are `on the same page', or
that the program goes forward slowly so that experiential understanding has time to
develop among all affected interests.

2. When undertaking the first project in a sector, components for which there is
experiential knowledge can be implemented quickly and well. In Kazakhstan the road
sector had experience in road rehabilitation.      These components were implemented
quickly even with a method that was new to the Kazakh professionals. A corollary is that
a related activity, which does not involve outside entities, such as road maintenance, can
adopt and learn new approaches and practices.

3. Local consultants are preferred and can be more effective and better accepted than
foreign consultants for technical assistance.       This preference for local consultants
derives from the awareness that technical assistance is not purely technical but also
depends on understanding the local administrative culture, important actors, and informal
connections. A corollary is that use of local consultants should become more widespread
but this would require that the Bank increases its supervision work as supervision teams
must train and supervise the local consultant. The cost of this type of supervision should
be considered, and also the possibility that the cost of all supervision could be paid by the
Borrower and made explicit in the Loan Agreement.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower/Implementing Agencies have raised no issues.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                             21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                     Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)  Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)         Appraisal

IMPROVEMENT NATIONAL
ROAD NETWORK                            113.4             118.8             104.7

STRENGTHENING OF
MAINTENANCE AND                           5.8                4.4              75
EQUIPMENT
INST.STRENGTHENING OF
DOR AND CONSTRUCTION                      1.7                0.00            0.00
INDUSTRY
CONSULTANT SERVICES
AND TRAINING                              6.3                6.3             100

ROAD POLICIES AND
REGULATIONS                               0.7                0.00            0.00

IMPROVEMENT OF ROAD
SAFETY                                    1.0                0.00            0.00

PROJECT MANAGEMENT BY
PIU                                       1.2                0.31            0.26


            Total Baseline Cost         131.2             129.81             98.9

Contingencies                             9.8                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs        141.0             129.81             90.2
Front-end fee PPF                         1.1                1.1            100.0
Front-end fee IBRD                        1.0                1.0            100.0
     Total Financing Required           143.8             131.91             91.7




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of     Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing    (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)     millions)
Government                                          35.70         36.8        103.08
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                     100.00        95.6          95.6




                                            22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component                          Output                Comments
Rehabilitation of the Almaty ­ Astana Road (US$113.4 million appraised)
Physical Components
Karaganda- Almaty segment          500 km                Rehabilitation completed as planned
Garaganda-Astana segment           100 km                Provisional component, canceled
Engineering services                                     Completed

Strengthening routine maintenance (US$5.8 million appraised)
Equipment                          Equipment purchased   Completed as planned

Institutional Strengthening (US$1.7 million ­ appraised)
(i) Planning, budgeting and        Done                  Canceled from loan financing, but
monitoring procedures                                    completed at Government expense
(ii) Establishment of procedures   Done                  Part of engineering services, foreign
for the supervision, and training                        consultant
(iii) Training programs for        Done                  Part of engineering services, foreign
Kazakhstancontractors                                    consultant
(iv) Strengthening of MOTC         Done                  Canceled from loan financing, but
training capacity                                        completed at Government expense
(v) Study tours, equipment for     Partially completed   Canceled from loan financing, but
road condition surveys, traffic                          completed at Government expense.
surveys, on-site laboratory                              (There were no study tours).

Road Transport Laws, Regulations and Policies (US$0.7 million appraised)
Studies/Activities
Preparation of road transport      Partially completed   Canceled from the loan, but
policies and regulations                                 completed partially at Government
                                                         expense. (Regulations on axle load
                                                         control implemented. Several norms
                                                         and standards were revised. Data
                                                         collection partially automated)

Improvement in Road Safety (US$1.0 million appraised)
Studies/Activities
Development of policies on road    Completed only to a   Canceled from the loan, but partially
safety                             minor degree          completed at Government expense.
                                                         (A study and an action plan was
                                                         prepared by consultant.)



Annex 2 of the PAD and the LOA give a detailed list of activities to be undertaken.
These are reproduced below:

     1. Rehabilitation of Priority Sections of National Roads - US$113.4 million,
         consisting of :



                                               23

  (a)      Rehabilitation of several selected segments of the national road network,
           totaling about 500 kilometers,
  (b)      Rehabilitation of several selected segments of the national road network
           between the cities of Karaganda and Astana (this segment was subject to
           discussions with the Government and justification on economic and
           environmental grounds and was later deleted).
  (c)      Provision of engineering, procurement and other consultants' services and
           training for the rehabilitation of national roads and supervision of
           construction of road works.

2. Strengthening of Routine Road Maintenance - US$5.8 million, consisting of:
   (a)     Provision of equipment and spare parts for improving routine road
           maintenance.

3. Institutional Strengthening of the Department of Roads and Development of the
   Kazakhstan road Maintenance and           Construction Industry - US$1.7 million,
   consisting of:
   (a)     the establishment of planning, budgeting and monitoring procedures for
           the national and regional road network
  (b)      the establishment of procedures for the supervision of road works carried
           out under contracts on the national and regional road network, as well as
           the training of staff of MOTC and local specialists in these procedures;
   (c)     the preparation of training programs for Kazakhstan contractors in
           subjects such as bid preparation, contract administration, cost control,
           management, and quality control;
  (d)      the strengthening of MOTC training capacity in the above three subjects;
           and
   (e)     provision of consultants' services, training, study tours, and equipment for
           road condition surveys, traffic surveys, data processing, on-site and
           laboratory tests, and office use.

4. Improvement in Road Transport Policies and Regulations and in their
  Implementation - US$0.7 million, consisting of:
  (a)      the improvement and development of laws and regulations pertinent to
           roads and road transport,
  (b)      the improvement of enforcement activities,
  (c)      the improvement of systems to collect and process data on the road
           transport subsector
  (d)      the development of a more competitive market for the provision of inter-
           city and rural passenger transport services,

5. Improvement in Road Safety - USS1.0 million, consisting of:
  (a)      Temporary road safety task force and the preparation of a preliminary
           National Road Safety Action Plan and Local Safety Plans
   (b)     Improvements in the collection and processing of road accident data
   (c)     Development of road safety research in Kazakhstan



                                         24

       (d)    Improved enforcement of road safety regulations by law enforcement
              entities
       (e)    Development of a better understanding of road safety problems among
              young people and the population at large
       (f)    Review of the state of existing, and possible provision of additional,
              emergency medical and other equipment.

As explained in the main text, the activities in components 3, 4 and 5 were lumped
together and carried out by Kazakh consultants at Government expense. The studies were
completed and the results partially implemented.




                                          25

Annex 3. Economic Analysis: Summary of Cost-Benefit Analysis

Summary of Project Costs and Benefits (in constant dollars):

Total financial cost at appraisal:           US$113.4 million
Total financial cost at completion:          US$118.8 million

Economic Net benefits at appraisal:          US$69.1 million, ERR 31.8 %
Economic Net benefits at completion:         US$269.1 million, ERR 290.1%

An ex post cost-benefit analysis (CBA) was conducted for the rehabilitation works of the
road sections between Almaty and Karaganda included in the project. The evaluation was
done using the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4), which
simulates life cycle conditions and costs and provides economic decision criteria for road
construction and maintenance activities. HDM-4 estimates the net discounted benefits of
each proposed intervention, in terms of the associated reduction in vehicle operating costs,
passenger travel time, and road maintenance expenditures.

The economic analysis was undertaken by comparing the economic costs and benefits
from the project to a base, or `deferred', scenario.        The deferred project scenario
resembles the project scenario in most aspects except timing and the rationale is that
without the proposed project, adequate funds would be unavailable for the road agency
until much later on to carry rehabilitation activities beyond the minimum annual routine
maintenance requirements.

The results of this CBA show the road sections perform well with regard to the standard
criteria for measuring the performance of an investment: All road sections lie well above
the 12% rate of return threshold, with positive NPV values confirming the suitability of
the project.

Data and Main Assumptions:

The appraisal period was defined at 15 years, which best accounts for the economic life
of the rehabilitation activities undertaken under the project and base scenarios. A
discount rate of 12% was assumed.

The financial costs are the actual costs of contracts. Maintenance costs are based on the
current maintenance contracts. At appraisal the projected average costs were US$169,000
per kilometer includes bridge repairs, shoulder widening, culvert repairs, and design
requirements stipulated by the Kazakhstan standards. At completion the experienced
costs were US$255,000 (rounded to the nearest `000)--a 50% percent increase.
Economic costs represent the real costs, net of all transfer payments, and amount to about
80% of financial costs.




                                            26

The current traffic, as well as traffic at appraisal, is shown in table 1 for the Northern and
Southern segments. Traffic growth rates at appraisal were assumed at 5.5 and 5 percent
for passenger and freight traffic respectively over the initial 6 years, after which these
rates were assumed at 4.2 and 4 percent respectively, for the remaining years of the
analysis period. The actual growth rates, used in this analysis, were 10% for both freight
and passenger.

Economic Analysis Results

The results of this CBA show the road sections perform well with regard to the standard
criteria for measuring the performance of an investment: The project yields a NPV of
US$269.1 million, and an ERR of 290.1%. All road sections lie well above the 12% rate
of return threshold, with positive NPV values confirming the suitability of the project.

Although the risk of cost overrun materialized, mostly due increases in the material costs
and more durable design, the benefits were robust, as anticipated at appraisal. Another
result at appraisal was that the ERR was sensitive to (lower) traffic growth. This turned
out to be true, but in reverse: the traffic grew at twice the rate estimated at appraisal.

As anticipated, the Project's main direct beneficiaries are individual car users and owners
of trucks and buses traveling on the Project road sections. They would benefit from
reduced vehicle operating costs, shorter traveling time, more reliable conditions, and
higher perceived traffic safety. The lowering of freight transport costs on one of the main
transport corridors of Kazakhstan has stimulated development of internal and external
trade and the growth of the economy. This is shown by the strong traffic growth in the
corridor. The Project's main components are therefore expected to benefit all income
groups in Kazakhstan.

Table A4:1

   Vehicle type          Almaty           Almaty          Karaganda          Karaganda
                          region
      (units)                             region            region              region
                          1997              2007             1997                2007
  Passenger cars          2470              5576             4840                11459
  and minibuses
    Midibuses               n/a              14               n/a                 162

   Heavy buses              n/a              30               n/a                 528

      Trucks                                202                                  2037
                            90                                903
  Trailers trucks                            87                                   588

    Articulated             n/a             118               n/a                1276
       trucks
   Motorcycles              n/a               6               n/a                  0

       Total              2560              6033             5743                16050



                                               27

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

          Names                        Title              Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Jean-Charles Crochet   Sr Transport Economist            MNSSD Team Leader
Supervision/ICR
Henry Kerali           Lead Transport Specialist         ECSSD Team Leader
Jacques Bure           Sr Highway Engineer               ECSSD
Norpulat Daniyarov     Financial Management Specialist   ECSPS
Nurbek Kurmanaliev     Procurement Spec.                 ECSPS
Martha B. Lawrence     Sr Transport. Spec.               ECSSD
Navaid A. Qureshi      Senior Infrastructure Specialist  CSFSD
Saltanat Sulaimanova   Consultant                        ECAVP




                                        28

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY93                                                            3.81
  FY94                                                            1.01
  FY95                                                           27.23
  FY96                                                           97.57
  FY97                                                          156.97
  FY98                                                          117.47
  FY99                                                           68.39
  FY00                                                            0.00
  FY01                                                            0.00
  FY02                                                            0.00
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                            0.00
                        Total:                                  472.45

Supervision/ICR
  FY93                                                            0.00
  FY94                                                            0.00
  FY95                                                            0.00
  FY96                                                            0.00
  FY97                                                            0.00
  FY98                                                            4.85
  FY99                                                           45.04
  FY00                                 39                       124.36
  FY01                                 22                        80.77
  FY02                                 10                        83.40
  FY03                                 18                       121.46
  FY04                                 16                        96.98
  FY05                                 11                       150.72
  FY06                                 20                        90.77
  FY07                                 11                        63.48
  FY08                                   8                       49.88
                        Total:        155                       911.71




                                    29

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                    30

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                  31

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                       Road Transport Restructuring Project

                             Project Completion Report


The beginning of the Road Transport Restructuring Project realization (International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development Loan No 44370) coincided with the period
of Kazakhstan economy formation after the collapse of the USSR.


Due to the fact that volumes of works executed every year and availability of
equipment of local contractors were not high, and Bank's requirements to suppliers
were very tough local companies were not able to participate in tender and foreign
companies acted as general contractors.

Though the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development sets rather tough
requirements for Borrowers and Executing Agencies, quality of supervision and
services and also approach to projects realization are quite satisfactory from our point
of view.

Budgetary funds assigned for road sector development increase every year in
Kazakhstan. Thus, in year 2002, 20 bln. KZT was assigned for this purpose and in
year 2007 ­ 120 bln. KZT.

All the employees of the Committee for Roads and its regional offices are qualified
specialists with higher education.

In view of new equipment import and new technologies implementation regional
educational centers were established in Almaty, Kostanay, Uralsk and Ust-
Kamenogorsk on the basis of existing schools, research institutions and road
organization for training and retraining of personnel.
Taking into consideration the experience of international contracts Engineer Service
was established in Kazakhstan in accordance with the Government decree. This
Service deals with technological maintenance and technical control during
construction, reconstruction and major repairs.

Public institutions Oblzhollaboratoriya were established in each region which are
completed with special laboratory equipment and machinery for quality control of road
construction works.

In years 2003-2005 in accordance with Activity Plan for harmonization of normative
documents with international requirements 62 standards used in road sector of
Kazakhstan were revised and harmonized. During the mentioned period 8




                                             32

instructions, 6 technical specifications, 24 recommendations on the implementation
of new technologies and materials had been worked out.

Tender commissions reduce bid value of potential supplier if one has ISO certificate
9000:2001 "Quality Management System" and private certified road construction
laboratory. This gave impetus for the implementation of international quality
management system in the organizations of this sector.

At the meantime there is approximately 80 road construction companies in Kazakhstan.
49 of them possess ISO certificates. Altogether more than 20000 people work in the
sector. Taking into consideration volumes of road construction works by the year 2012
the quantity of workers in the sector is expected to reach 40000 mostly at the expense of
extension of staff in contracting agencies.

With the implementation of Automated Management System of data collection the
process of data collection has been partially automated. In the meantime this system
requires improvement. Within technical assistance, provided by the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, this question was considered by the Consultant ­
"Finnroad" Ltd. On the basis of research "Finnroad" Ltd. in association with "SK
Engineering" LLP the report "Assistance to improving maintenance of roads In
Kazakhstan" was prepared. The report comprises three components: road maintenance,
pavement management system, concession and PPP.

Road Sector Development Program for years 2006-2012 provides for the following
priorities: priority reconstruction of basic international transit corridors;
stage-by-stage liquidation of destructions on roads network; elimination of ground cracks
at republican roads; keeping and reconstruction of oblast and regional roads; all-the-year-
round traffic availability in rural areas; construction, reconstruction and repair of roads
with low cost price in rural areas and others (see Road Sector Development Program for
years 2006-2012, chapter 4, clause 4.1)

Taking into account increasing road traffic and growing quantity of heavy-duty trucks
since year 2006 under the development of new roads reconstruction project the
requirements of the revised construction norms and rules providing transition of
international roads to II technical category with strengthening of road structure on axle
load not less than 13 tons are to be taken into account.

The quantity of road construction companies participating in big state projects (about
80) including those enabled to participate in international bids (about 15 - "K-
Dorstroy", "Akmola Kurylys Materialdary", "Kazakhdorstroy", "Avtodorservis",
"Progress", "Kazpako", "Karagandazholdary" and others) is growing every year.

At the meantime due to the increase of road traffic and speed the number of traffic
accidents is growing and the consequences are getting worse.




                                              33

The main works implemented on the sections of Almaty - Karaganda road were
rehabilitation works.

As of now the condition of road sections rehabilitated at the expense of the World
Bank funds (except the section km 343-509) requires periodical repairs.
Now average costs for road works and maintenance in Kazakhstan are the following:
- capital repair of 1 km of road - 100 mln. KZT;
- middle repair of 1 km of road - 5 mln. KZT;
- routine repairs of 1 km of road - 300 thousand KZT.

In order to unload republican budget the search of alternative financial sources
including public private partnership model are being constantly implemented.

Average daily traffic on Almaty ­ Karaganda road according to the data for the 4th
quarter of year 2007 is the following:


                                            Almaty
            Vehicle type (units)                          Karaganda region
                                            region

         Passenger cars and
                                             5576                11459
         minibuses (units)

         Midibuses (units)                    14                  162

         Heavy buses (units)                  30                  528

         Trucks (units)                      202                 2037

         Trailers trucks (units)              87                  588

         Articulated vehicles
                                             118                 1276
         (units)

         Tractors (units)                     5                    8

         Motorcycles (units)                  6                    0

         Total (units)                       6038                16058




                       Implementation of civil works contracts

The Road Transport Restructuring Project was implemented in accordance with Loan
Agreement (LA) entered into by and between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the
International Bank of Reconstruction and Development on 14 April 1999, which came
into effect on 14 January 2000, in the amount of USD100.0 million with co-financing by
the Government of Kazakhstan in the amount of USD 35,7 million. Loan Agreement
ratified by the Law of Republic of Kazakhstan No 446-I dated July 20, 1999.


                                            34

All of the Project components have been completed with the exception of the remedial
road works on the Almaty-Gulshad section, km 343-509.

                        Almaty-Gulshad section (km 27-509)


The supervision Engineer ­ SMEC Company (Australia)
Contracts No 005, 006, 007, 008 and 009 - WB/CW have been completed, the objects
have been put into operation.

Contract 004-WB/CW was signed by and between the Committee of Roads of the
Ministry of Transport and Communications and JV Holding Energoproject ­ Kazkahstan
Zholdary on December 22, 2000.


The main construction works within the Contract have been completed in 2003.
Due to the fact that the Contractor had delayed on elimination of defects found out in
August-September, 2004, the Client has terminated the Contract.


The tender for procurement of remedial works on the Almaty-Gulshad section, km 343-
509 was conducted on August 11, 2006. According to the result of tender, the Contract
004Ar-WB/CW for remedial works valued at KZT 845,793,760.20 was awarded to
Tarazzholkurylys LLP.

The Contract 004Ar-WB/CW, the length of the section is 166 km (km 343-509)
The Contract works include the rectification of defects on various sections of existing
pavement at 166 km length including all investigations, geometrical design and drawings,
testing, excavation, milling and reconstruction of pavement; preparation of existing
pavement, asphalt overlays, buildup of shoulders, earthworks, demolition and restoration
of traffic marking and furniture.

The Advance payment in the amount of 211,488,440 KZT was paid to the Contractor and
also Interim Payment Certificate No 1 in the amount of 41.7 mln. KZT and the Certificate
No. 2 in the amount of 33.7 mln. KZT.

Due to the fact that the Loan was closed on December 31, 2007 but construction
works on the section have not been completed yet further financing of the project will
be effectuated at the expense of the Republican Budget.




                                           35

                     Akchatau ­ Karaganda Section (km 788-1003)

The Supervision Engineer ­ «Scott Wilson» (Great Britain)
Contracts No 001, 002, 003 - WB/CW have been completed, the objects have been put
into operation

Considering that validation time of Contract 002-WB/CS expired and representatives of
Scott Wilson Company refused to come Kazakhstan, the Nippon Koei Company was
involved to prepare the Final certificate for Contract 003-WB/CW ­ Contractor "IRDO"
Company. The Nippon Koei Company in person of Mr. D. Carmichael has prepared the
Final Payment Certificate for Contract 003-WB/CW at agreed amount USD 891,459.24.
Unpaid sum is amounted to USD 528,211 and KZT 12,947,800. The question concerning
payment to "IRDO" Company is now under consideration.


                            Procurement of Equipment

Within the Road Transport Restructuring Project the following Equipment
Procurement Contracts for the total amount of 5.2 mln. KZT were signed:

Within the lot 2. "Heavy Grader" (14 units) - with «Xinjiang Yema Economy and
Trade Co. Ltd.».
Within the lot 3. "Road repair and service vehicle" (28 units) ­ with "Medintech"
LLP.
Within the lot 4. "Front-End loader" (14 units) ­ with JSC VPK "ChelProm".

Within the lot 5. "Wheeled tractor with attachments" (40 units) ­ with "MTZ
Kazservice" LLP.
Within the lot 6. "Universal multigrade vehicle" (14 units) ­ with "Limited
Partnership "Commercial-Production firm "Zake"

All the procured equipment was supplied and the payments within all Contracts have
been realized in full.




                                            36

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A (none)




                                    37

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports
2.   Quarterly Reports prepared by Borrower
3.   Project Appraisal Document for the Republic of Kazakhstan for the Road
     Transport Restructuring Project, dated January 5, 1999 (Report No. 18136-KZ)
4.   Project Implementation Plan dated June 1998
5.   Supplementary Economic Analysis of Akchatau-Karaganda Road Rehabilitation
     dated January 1998
6.   Report of Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick (Selection of Roads) dated December 1997
7.   Report of Ian Jenkins (Road Transport Review) dated October 1997
8.   Improvement in Road Transport and Road Policies, Regulations and in their
     Implementation
9.   Study to Develop and Implement a Road Planning, Budgeting and Monitoring
     System (Highway Management System)
10.  Improvement of Road Safety




                                         38

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 29749

                                                      50°                                                             60°                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                           Tyumen`    70°                                                                     80°                                                                90°
                                                           KAZAKHSTAN                                                R U S S I A N F E D E R A T I O N
                                             ROAD TRANSPORT                                                                                             To Kurgan
                                    RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                               To Chelyabinsk                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Omsk
                                                                                                                                                                                    PETROPAVLOVSK                  To Omsk                    To Omsk

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To                                                         90°
                                           0             100     200      300         400 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                                  Barnaul
                                                                                                                                                                               NORTH

                                           0                    100                200 Miles                                                                              KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                              To                                                                                                          Ertis                                                     To Barnaul
                                                                                                             Ufa
         Volga                                                                                                                                                             Kokshetau
                                    To Samara                                                                                                                                                                                   (Irtysh)
                                                                                                                                    KOSTANAI
                     To                                                                                Ukal   Kartaly
                  Saratov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ob`
                                                                                                                                            (Tobol)                                                                               PAVLODAR


                                                       ORAL         To Orenburg                                                   Tobyl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ekibastuz
    50°                                                                                                                                                                             A K M O L A                                                                                                                                  50°

                                                                                                                                      K O S T A N A I                                                                             PAV L O D A R                                                                             MONGOLIA

                                   Chapaevo                                                                                                                                    (Ishim)
                                                                                                     Orsk                                                                Esil                                                                                          Semi
                                             Zh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OSKEMEN
                                                                                                                                                                                          ASTANA
                              W E S T         aiyk                                        AKTOBE
                       K A Z A K H S TA N         (Ur                                                                                                                                        Nura                                                                                                                 Buktyrma
                                                   )la                                                                                                             Arkalyk                             Temirtau
                                                                                                                  Yrghyz
                                                                                                                                             Torghai                                               KARAGHANDY                                                                                                 Lake
                                                            Oiyi                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E A S T                    Zaisan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    K A Z A K H S T A N
Volga                                                                                  A K T O B E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD
                                    A T Y R A U                                                 Embi                                                                                                                   Section                                                           Ayakos


                                                                              Zhem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ADB Gulshad-                          Ayakos

        To                                 ATYRAU                                                          Shalkar                                                                                                 Akchatau          Akchatau Section
    Astrakhan`                                                                                                                                             Zhezkazghan                   K A R A G H A N D Y                         (under implementation)

                                                                                                                                                                             Sarysu                                                      Balkhash
                                                                                                                           Aral                                                                                     IsDB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Section 22                                                          Lepsi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gulshad                                                      Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Aksu
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Saryshaghan                   Lake                                                Alakol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Karatal
           C                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Balkhash
                        Bautino
            a                                                      Beineu                                                            Toretam                                                                     IBRD
             sp                                                                                                                                                                                                Sections
                                                                                                    Aral                                                                                                        17-21                                                     Taldykorgan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ile

               ia                                                                                     Sea                                                                                            Z H A M B Y L                      IBRD               A L M A T Y                  Korghas                     C H I N A
                      AKTAU                                                                                                                                                                            Shu                              bridge

                 n                     M A N G H Y S TA U                                                                  K Y Z Y L O R D A             KZYLORDA                                                (Chu)                                  Kurty
                                                                             To Nukus                                                                                                                                                                   bridge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD
                  S                                                                                                                                                                          Talas                                               Sections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1-5
                   ea                                                                                                                                           Syrdariya                                                         Shu                                                     Kegen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALMATY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Shilik
                                                                                                                                                                               Turkistan

                                                                                                             1990 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA                                                                TARAZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BISHKEK                         Lake                           MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                For detail see IBRD 29750                Issyk Kul
                                                                                                            1960 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA                                                                                                                                                                        SECONDARY ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                         SOUTH           SHYMKENT                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P .
                                                                                                                                                                     KAZAKHSTAN                                                                Z      R E                                                 SEAPORTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G  Y                                                             OTHER PORTS            40°

    40°                                                                                                                                                                                                                         K   Y  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESERT AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                         TASHKENT                                                                 ROAD REHABILITATION:                    NATIONAL CAPITALS
                          KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                           U Z B E K I S T A N                                                                                                                  IBRD FINANCED                         REGION CAPITALS

                                                                    T U R K M E N I S T A N                                                                                                       AN                                                                ADB FINANCED                          SELECTED CITIES

                                                                                                                                                                                          TAJIKIST                                                                  IsDB FINANCED                         REGION BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                    To                                                                                            IBRD FINANCED BRIDGES                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                               60°                                                               Dzhizak                      70°                                                                                                     80°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JANUARY 1999

                                                                                                                         IBRD 29750

                                74°                                       R U S S I A N        F E D E R A T I O N
          ASTANA


     Nura                                                                                           Area of Map

                                                                                                       Astana


                                                                              KAZAKHSTAN                     Lake
                                                                                                           Balkhash


                                                                               Aral
                                                                               Sea                        Almaty
                 Temirtau
50°                                   50°       Caspian                    UZBEKISTAN                    KYRGYZ
                                                                                                           REP.
                             Karaghandy     AZERBAIJAN
                                                        Sea      TURKMENISTAN                 TAJIKISTAN                    CHINA

                                            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN                  AFGHANISTAN



                                                                                                                       78°
                                                                          KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                ROAD TRANSPORT
                           IBRD                        RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
                          Section                                       PROJECT AREA

                                                                                           ROAD REHABILITATION:

                                                                                             IBRD FINANCED

                                        Akchatau                                             ADB FINANCED
48°                                                                                                                               48°
                                                                                             IsDB FINANCED

                                                                                           IBRD FINANCED BRIDGES
                         ADB Gulshad-
                       Akchatau Section
                    (under implementation)




                                                           Balkhash

                                  Gulshad
                           IsDB
                        Section 22
                                                              L a k e B a l k h a s h

                 Saryshaghan

46°                                                                                                                               46°
                  IBRD
                 Sections                                                                                 Karatal
                 17-21




                        Burubaytal     IBRD                      Ile                                                     Taldykorgan
                                      bridge



                                                                Kanshengel
  72°                           74°


          MAIN ROADS
                                                                      Kurty
          RIVERS                    44°                             bridge                                                        44°

          INTERMITTENT STREAMS                                                       Chemalgan
                                                                        IBRD
          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                         Sections 1-5
          INTERNATIONAL
            BOUNDARIES                                                              Almaty

          ELEVATIONS, IN METERS:
            3000

            2000
                                   Bishkek                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
            1000                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                       KYRGYZ                 on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
            500                       REPUBLIC                judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                              acceptance of such boundaries.                           78°

                                                                                                                       JANUARY 1999

