Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14700
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1692-CE)
JUNE 27, 1995
Country Operations and Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region
i This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIJALENT
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Pupee
(annual average)
Rs. Per US$1.00         USS Per Rs.1.00
1986        28 .017                   0.0355
1987        29.445                    0.0339
1988        31.807                    0.0314
'989        36.047                   0.0277
1990        40.063                    0.0249
1991        41.372                    0.0241
1992        43.830                    0.0228
1993        48.322                    0.0206
1994        49.500                    0.0200
A33REV-IATIONS
ADB          -    Asian Develorment Bank
AWPR         -    Average Weighted Prime Rate
BOC          -    Bank of Ceylon
CBSL        -     Central Bank of Sri Lanka
DFIs         -    DeveloDment Finance Institutes
DFCC         -    Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
GOSL        -    Government of Sri Lanka
IPS         -     Industrial Policy Statement
NDB          -    National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
PB          -     Peoples Bank
PCI         -    Participating Credit Institutions
PFDP        -    Private Finance Development Project
PMES        -    Public Manufacturing Enzerprises
SMI         -     Small and Medium Industries
TIPR        -    Trade and Industrial Policy Reform
FISCAL YEARS
GOSL                                              = January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks                                  = January 1 to December 31
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC)= April 1 to March 31
National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB)    = January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                                June 27, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka - Second Industrial
Development Project (IDP-II) (Credit 1692-CE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sri Lanka Second Industrial Development
project (Credit 1692-CE, approved in FY86), prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower. The Credit, totalling US$20.0 million, was approved on May 8, 1986, and
closed on June 30, 1994, seven months behind schedule due to delays in completion of technical assistance
(TA) programs.
The project was the second of several credits extended to the Government of Sri Lanka for
strengthening industrial and trade policy reforms and the development of the industrial sector. Its main
objectives were to: (i) provide credit through the banking system to medium and large-scale industries; (ii)
develop the institutional capabilities of Development Finance Institutions (DFIs); and (iii) strengthen reform
programs in the areas of trade and industrial policy.
The project broadly achieved its objectives of delivering credit efficiently and strengthening the
institutional base for financial intermediation. The TA component helped improve the incentive framework
for private sector development by: (i) simplification of the import tariff structure and elimination of export
taxes; and (ii) streamlining personal and corporate tax structures.
More than 70 percent of the sub-projects have performed satisfactorily in terms of profitability. The
DFIs cash collection ratios were also higher than the IDA minimum requirement of 75 percent with returns
on assets and on equity well above the covenanted ratios; their debt/equity ratios also were below the
covenanted ratios. The outcome with respect to technical assistance was mixed: while operational capabilities
of the DFIs improved, lesser progress was made in respect of support to policy reforms, due to a failure to
effectively coordinate and monitor the program.
The principal lessons that emerge from the implementation of the project are: (i) that successful
project implementation depends crucially on initial conditions: well functioning and well managed development
finance institutions are essential to channel credit efficiently and ensure good loan recovery; (ii) that concurrent
efforts are needed to strengthen the institutional and resource base of financial markets to ensure a steady
stream of loanable funds; and (iii) that technical assistance programs that accompany the credits should have
clear objectives, spell out the means to achieve them, and establish mechanisms for coordination and
monitoring implementation.
Project outcome is rated as satisfactory and the institutional development impact is rated as substantial.
Sustainability is rated as likely.
The PCR is comprehensive in its coverage of the performance of the project and principal issues, and
its overall quality is good. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may
not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT              FOROFFICIALUSEONLY
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1692-CE)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evaluation Summary. .  . ...............  iii
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.      Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Background .
IDA's Strategy and Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
The Industrial Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Policy Reforms.                                                                   2
3.  Project Objectives and Description .3
Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
4.  Project Design and Organization.                                                           4
5.      Project Implementation and Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Implementation and Results of Credit Component   . . . . . . . .  5
Sub-Project Financed   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
DFCC and NDB Performance in Project Implementation   . . . . . .  7
Implementation and Results of Technical Assistance   . . . . . .  7
GOSL's Performance in the Implementation of TA   . . . . . . . .  9
6.      Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Sub-Projects'  Performance.    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
DFI's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
7. IDA's Performance .11
8.      Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
9.  Project Relationships .12
10.  Project Documentation and Data .13
11.      Consulting Services.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
12.  Conclusions and Lessons Learned .13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Contents (cont'd)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
PART III:STATISTICAL INFORMATION . ..17
1.      Related Bank Loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
2.      Project Time Table . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
3.      Credit Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
4.      Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
5.      Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
A.  Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
B.  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
6.      Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
7.      Status of Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
8.      Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
A.  Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
B.  Missions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
ANNEXES
I.        Sub-Loan Financing - Under IDA Credit  . . . . . . . . . . .21
II.       Sectoral Distribution of Sub-Projects   . . . . . . . . . . .22
III.      Geographical Distribution of Sub-Projects  . . . . . . . . .22
IV.       Sub-Project Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
V.        Financial Performance Indicators - DFCC  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
VI.       Financial Performance Indicators - NDB . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
VII.      Technical Assistance - Allocation and Utilization  . . . . .26
VIII.    People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon Operational Review  . . . .27
IX.       ADB Line of Credit - DFLI (ADB 754 SRI)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1692-CEI
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Industrial development Project (Credit 1692-CE) to the Government of Sri Lanka
(GOSL) in the amount of SDR 17.4 million (USS 20.0 million equivalent
inclusive of US$ 2.0 million technical assistance). The Credit was approved
on May 8, 1986, signed on July 24, 1986, became effective on October 9, 1986
and closed on June 30, 1994. The project was originally scheduled to close on
December 31, 1993; however, due to unexpected delays in the completion of some
TA programs, the GOSL requested IDA to extend the credit closing for six
months.  The main objectives of the project were to complement the previous
industrial sector operations through further reform in the areas of trade and
industrial policy and provide credit through the Development Finance
Institutions (DFIs) to medium- and large- scale private industrial enterprises
for creation of new operations as well as for modernization, rehabilitation
and expansion of existing private industries and selected public manufacturing
enterprises.
The project had two major components: (i) a credit component of
US$ 18.0 million equivalent for sub-project financing; and (ii) a technical
assistance component of US$ 2.0 million equivalent for implementation of the
GOSL's policy reform programs and institutional development of DFIs. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) provided US$ 20.0 million through a parallel line
of credit on terms and conditions similar to those of IDA's. The
implementation of the project was, overall, satisfactory. The credit
component was largely committed about a year and half ahead of appraisal
schedule and the TA component was fully utilized. A small balance of funds
remained unutilized at the time of project closing and was cancelled.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was
prepared by the ITF Unit of the Country Operations and Industry and Finance
Division, Country Department III, South Asia Region (SA3CI). Part II is to be
prepared by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The DFIs and MOF provided part of
the statistical information required for Part III.
This PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA); supervision reports; internal Bank
memoranda; correspondence between IDA and the borrower; and other documents
and reports in the project file.



I



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-II)
(CREDIT 1692-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Obiectives and Description.  The main objective of the project was
to support and complement IDA's previous industrial sector operations by
providing credit through the banking system to medium and large scale
manufacturing industries. The project also aimed at making further
contribution to institutional strengthening of the participating Development
Finance Institutions (DFIs) and to reform programs in the areas of trade and
industrial policy, export promotion, and public enterprise efficiency. IDP-II
took further steps to address issues in interest rate policies and induced the
Government to move towards rationalization of financial markets, specifically
acceptance of the principles that lending rates should reflect the cost of
funds. At the time of project preparation, a Bank/IMF mission carried out a
detailed analysis of the financial sector to determine measures needed to
promote the capital markets and availability of development finance, improve
the domestic money market, and rationalize the interest rates. To help ensure
that the interest rates were appropriately adjusted during project
implementation, the proceeds of the credit were divided into two tranches of
US$ 10.0 million each, with the release of the second tranche to be made
following an agreement between the Government and IDA on a mechanism for
determining appropriate interest rates for term lending.
2.          The project had two components: (i) a Credit component of SDR 15.7
million (US$ 18.0 million equivalent) for sub-project financing in the
priority areas of agro-industries, chemicals, light engineering, garments,
rubber products, and industrial services activities; and (ii) a SDR 1.7
million (US$ 2.0 million equivalent) Technical Assistance (TA) component for
institutional development of DFIs, improvement the efficiency of selected
public manufacturing enterprises (PMEs), and supporting the Government's
reform policy in the areas of industrial and trade incentives. The Asian
Development Bank (ADB) co-financed the project, through a parallel line of
credit of US$ 20.0 million on terms and conditions similar to those of IDA's.
3.          Project Implementation and Results.  IDP-II was signed on July 24,
1986, became effective on October 9, 1986 and closed on June 30, 1994. The
original closing date of the project, December 31, 1993, was extended for six
months per Government's request owing to unexpected delays in the completion
of some of the TA programs. Because of strong demand for investment financing
by private manufacturing enterprises, the credit component was committed by
October 1988, 17 months ahead of appraisal schedule. The credit component was
95 percent committed to 77 eligible industries. The unutilized balance of the



- iv -
credit component was partly used for TA programs in line with the project's
objectives. At project closing, about half a million dollars of the proceeds
of the credit remained unutilized and were cancelled.
4.          Despite continued political problems, the credit component was
implemented satisfactorily and achieved, for the most part, its development
objectives. IDP-II successfully provided needed investment financing to a
large number of private manufacturing enterprises in the major areas of
industrial activities and significantly contributed to employment generation.
The project also succeeded in maintaining a dialogue with the GOSL on issues
related to the privatization of the PMEs and on trade and industrial
incentives, and paved the way for further IDA commitments in support of the
industrial sector. Based on recommendations of the joint IMF/Bank mission in
April 1986, and subsequent discussions with the Government, the mechanism for
determining long term interest rates was agreed with the Government on April
15, 1987. Under the adopted formula, interest rates charged for sub-loans and
those charged by the GOSL to the DFIs were based on Average Weighted Prime
Rate (AWPR) for short-term lending operations of the commercial banks as
established daily by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL). The Legal
Documents were amended accordingly and the second tranches were released by
both Bank and ADB in June 1987.
5.          The project correctly identified the risks related to the ethnic
disturbances and their consequences on the sub-borrowers' performance and the
DFIs' operations; therefore, steps were taken under the project to help the
DFIs to strengthen their operations in order to carefully monitor the
performance and viability of the sub-projects. The sectoral distribution of
sub-loans was consistent with the major areas of activity expected to be
financed at the time of appraisal. The project mainly financed enterprises in
metals and chemicals (33%), food processing (30%), and textiles (12%). About
92 percent of the total sub-loans were used for expansion of existing
industries. Sub-projects were largely concentrated in a few Districts in the
Western Province mainly due to lack of sufficient infrastructures in other
parts of the Island. There was no demand for sub-project financing in the
Northern and Eastern Provinces due to continued ethnic disturbances in those
two Provinces.
6.          The lack of reasonably accurate follow-up data on sub-project
performance has made it difficult to make an objective and in-depth assessment
of the benefits of the project. However, based on some information provided
by the DFIs, the performance of more than 70 percent of the sub-projects in
terms of their profitability and output level was satisfactory (Annex IV).
The performance of the DFIs was also satisfactory despite the continued civil
disturbance in the Island. They met the minimum required cash collection
ratio of 75 percent and kept their returns on assets and equity well above the
covenanted ratios.
7.          The TA component focused mainly on capacity building of the DFIs,
improving efficiency of specific PMEs, and implementing trade and industrial
policy reform programs. Funds allocated for improving the efficiency of PMEs
and those for supporting industrial and trade policy reform programs were not
fully utilized and the unutilized balance was allocated for capacity building



objectives beyond those identified at appraisal. These included training of
the staff of DFIs and commercial banks, technology development for the
Ministry of Finance, and operational review of the two state-owned commercial
banks.
8.          Although the TA programs for institutional development of the DFIs
were implemented satisfactorily, the results of programs designed to support
the policy reforms were mixed. The two DFIs fully and effectively utilized
the TA funds and managed to improve their operations through intensive staff
training and restructuring of their institutions. TA funds allocated for
improving the efficiency of PMEs were utilized for three studies and some
training programs. In order to evaluate the financial and economic viability
of selected PMEs, a major sensitivity study of the PMEs was conducted by
foreign consultants in 1989. The major recommendations made by the study were
implemented and provided the background work for the IDA's Public
Manufacturing Enterprise Adjustment Credit, approved in November 1990. During
the period 1989-1994, 44 enterprises including Cements, Tyre, Leather, Mining
and Mineral Development, Distilleries, Pugoda and Mattegama Mills, and Ceramic
Corporations have been privatized. More enterprises are expected to be
privatized during the course of 1994/1995.
9.          Since 1986, IDA approved six (industrial and adjustment)
operations with overlapping objectives on policy reforms. Therefore, it is
not possible to evaluate precisely the impact of the IDP-II TA on the GOSL's
trade and industrial policy reform programs. The IMF, too, was simultaneously
active in financing and dialogue. IDP-II's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
lacked a detailed terms of reference for the TA activities in this area. The
TA funds for implementing the trade and industrial policy reforms were
utilized for a few training and study tours and did not achieved its
objectives. However, both the Bank and IMF have continued an active dialogue
with the GOSL under other IDA projects approved since 1986. The
implementation of the GOSL's medium-term Policy Framework Paper (PFP),
presented in 1986, was significantly constrained by spreading civil
disturbances in the South and later by the 1989 Parliamentary and Presidential
elections. The macro economic environment sharply deteriorated during 1987-
1988. In 1989, the new government adopted a stabilization program which was
supported by the IMF's Structural Adjustment Facility and subsequently by the
IDA's Economic Restructuring Credit (approved in 1990). Since 1989, the GOSL
has made considerable efforts to implement the major elements of these reform
programs. The import tariff structure was substantially simplified, stamp
duties on letters of credit were reduced, and export taxes were eliminated.
The incentive structure consisting of duty rebates and tax holidays was
maintained to promote exports. To further promote the private sector, income
taxes were substantially simplified and personal and corporate income taxes
were reduced.
10.         The TA funds, for the most part, were not managed and utilized
efficiently by some of the TA beneficiaries mainly because of their
inefficient organizational capabilities and lack of regular follow-up and
proper recording system. In the absence of a central unit to coordinate the
TA activities under IDP-II, project reporting on TA was of poor quality. This
weakness was recognized by the Third Industrial Development Project (IDP-III,



- vi -
approved in July 1988) which proposed the establishment of an IDP Monitoring
Unit (IMU) in the MOF to closely monitor the TA activities under both IDP-II &
III. Despite IDA's efforts in strengthening the IMU through consultants,
computers, and training, this Unit did not succeed in proper and effective
monitoring of the TA activities. It was not adequately staffed and lacked an
effective recording system.   While both DFIs complied with the audit and
reporting requirements, the Government did not provide IDA with timely audit
of the project accounts. The 1992 and 1993 project accounts have not yet been
submitted to the Association.
11.         Sustainability. The key factors to the short-term success and
long-term sustainability of development finance investment operations can be
summarized as: (i) the performance of the sub-borrowers with respect to the
financial viability and profitability of their operations, and the rate of
return of their investment; (ii) the financial performance of the credit
institutions and sustainability of their long-term lending; (iii) efficient
use of the supporting TA funds for capacity building of the institutions
involved in the project; and (iv) the Government's timely compliance with
needed reform in the areas of trade and industrial policy as well as financial
sector operations.
12.         Because of inadequate information on ex-post sub-project rates of
return, it is difficult to assess the sustainability of benefits of the sub-
projects. However, based on the information provided by the DFIs on the
success of the financed sub-projects in terms of profitability, output level,
and satisfactory employment generation, the expected net benefit of the sub-
projects is likely to be sustainable. The two DFIs are, in general, well
managed and financially viable institutions. They utilized the TA funds
effectively for their institution capacity building objectives. Their loan
collection performance, which reflects their internal efficiency, and is an
important indicator for sustainability of project finance, has been
satisfactory under the IDP-II operation and for other IDA financial
intermediation operations (Four SMIs and IDP-III).
13.         Long-term sustainability of DFIs' lending is also dependent on the
policy and regulatory environment in which these institutions operate. Sri
Lanka has had eight successive industrial investment credits, with overlapping
objectives, financed by IDA in a period of 14 years starting 1979. The
evidence is that the financial institutions still remain dependent on the GOSL
and multilateral donors for funding their long-term development lending.
Insufficient access to term savings and lack of secondary markets in debt
instruments have made it difficult for private entrepreneurs to obtain
domestically funded term loans. Thus, funds provided through multilateral
agencies have been the major source of term lending through the financial
system.
14.         In Sri Lanka, financial institutions with access to primary term
savings are publicly controlled and invest their funds on either a short-term
basis or on longer dated public securities issued at managed rates.
Therefore, other credit institutions (DFIs and commercial banks), which are
capable of reaching the private borrowers, are unable to mobilize long-term



- vii -
domestic resources for term lending. The Private Finance Development Project
(PFDP), approved by the Board in 1993, addressed these issues and attempted to
help the GOSL change and strengthen the role of financial institutions that
have access to term savings and strengthen the local bond market in order to
mobilize domestic resources for long-term investment. GOSL's effort to
implement the elements of the financial sector reform program is the key to
the sustainability of the IDP-II and other financial intermediation
operations. GOSL needs to improve efficiency of the financial sector and
strengthen the institutional framework within which financial institutions
operate.
15.         Lessons Learned. There are three important lessons learned from
the design and implementation experience of the IDP-II project. First, one of
the key factors that affects the sustainability of an intermediation operation
is the financial viability and sustainability of the credit institutions
which, in turn, is affected by their internal operational efficiency as well
as the policy and regulatory framework in which they operate. Satisfactory
loan collection performance reflects internal operational efficiency of the
DFIs and is a major indicator of program sustainability. Successful
implementation of the IDP-II credit was partly because of the DFIs'
satisfactory performance. However, for an intermediation operation to have
its prolonged impact on the economy, the financial sectors at the macro level
should be strengthened.
16.         Second, effective monitoring and supervision of the project by
both IDA and the Government is integral to the success of the project. The
major weakness in the design of the IDP-II was the absence of a central agency
to coordinate and routinely follow-up the TA activities. For an effective and
timely monitoring and reporting system, the project should adequately provide
resources to the Government and ensure the set up at the outset. An APEX
system (set up in the Government or by private sector), commonly used in other
IDA's operations, has proved to be able to address this issue.
17.         Third, the design of the TA is critical to effective
implementation of the project. In order to improve the design and
implementation of the TA, responsibilities for implementation of TA activities
and structure should be agreed and put into place at an early stage of the
project; goals should be set realistically so that they can be reasonably
achieved; tasks should also be set so that the recipients feel capable of
implementing the program and achieving the TA's objectives; IDA should spend
enough time with all the parties during the project implementation and ensure
that the TA beneficiaries maintain their commitments for implementation; terms
of reference of the TA and the time table for its implementation should be
precise and clear; and finally the design and implementation experience of
preceding IDA projects should be clearly evaluated before defining the
elements of the TA for new projects.
June 7. 1995



I



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP-II)
(CREDIT 1692-CE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.          Project Identity
Name               : Second Industrial Development Project
Credit Number      : Credit 1692-CE
RVP Unit           : South Asia Region
Country            : Sri Lanka
Sectors            : Finance and Industry
2.          Background
1.01        In late 1977, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) reversed its
long-standing policy of control and extensive intervention and began to
encourage market forces to play an increasing role in the allocation of
resources. The Government introduced measures to implement a phased reform
program focusing on liberalization of trade and industrial policies which
included exchange rate unification and depreciation, trade liberalization,
interest rate increases to encourage savings, relaxation of regulations on
private domestic investment, improving the efficiency of the Public
Manufacturing Enterprises (PMEs), and the establishment of a Free Trade Zone
to attract export-oriented foreign private investment.
1.02        IDA's Strategy and Involvement.  To assist the GOSL in its
commitment to implement the 1977 liberalization of trade and industrial
policies and further promote private industrial sector, IDA sent an industrial
sector mission to Colombo in 1978 with the objective of identifying weaknesses
in Sri Lanka's institutional and policy framework, analyzing the performance
of the public industrial enterprises and assessing the potential of small and
medium scale industries (SMIs). After the review, IDA initiated a series of
industrial sector projects starting 1979.
1.03        The Board approved two credits for SMI development in 1979 and
1981 followed by the first credit for large scale industrial development in
1983. These credits, in addition to meeting the long-term investment
financing for small, medium, and large scale industries, were used as vehicles
to develop the basis for intensive discussion with GOSL to implement elements
of a comprehensive phased trade and industrial policy reform program covering
tariff reform, industrial and export incentives and public sector efficiency.
In early 1986, with Technical Assistance (TA) funding from the first



2
industrial development project (IDP-I), GOSL prepared an Industrial Policy
Statement (IPS) which gave high priority to private industrial development,
with particular emphasis on the role of SMIs. IDA continued its support by
approving five more industrial and financial sector intermediation operations
(table 1, page 13) with the objective of making a further contribution to
policy reform and providing credit through the banking system for long-term,
capital investment in eligible productive enterprises.
1.04        The first IDP which became effective in January 1984, provided a
total of USS 25.0 million equivalent in IDA financing to assist the GOSL in
introducing a comprehensive medium-term (1983-1988) program of trade and
industrial policy reform while funding medium and large scale industrial sub-
projects. The credit component of US$ 23.0 million was fully committed as of
July 31, 1985 and the progress on the implementation of key policy components
was satisfactory. However, both the Government and IDA recognized, at the
time, the need for further policy adjustment. Furthermore, with GOSL's
support for the private sector investment and healthy demand by the private
sector for industrial finance, the necessity for accelerated processing of
Second Industrial Development project was recognized in late 1984. In January
1985, the GOSL formally requested IDA for the early processing of IDP-II
particularly since full commitment of IDP-I credit component was expected by
mid-1985.  In response to the Government's urgent need for the second line of
credit for medium and large scale industries, IDA sent its preparation and
appraisal missions in April and June of 1985 and had the project approved by
the Board in May of 1986.
1.05        The Industrial Sector.  Although Sri Lanka has a limited
industrial base, the manufacturing sector accounts for about 19 percent of the
GDP and 73 percent of the value of exports of which 68 percent is attributed
to the exports of textiles and garments. The structure of the sector, except
for relatively recent and rapid growth in garment manufacturing, has remained
generally unchanged. However, emerging industrial sub-sectors such as
Jewelry, Machinery and Equipment, Ceramics, Rubber and Leather are potentially
capable of a higher value added, unlike the textile and Garment sector. There
are about 400 large-scale private manufacturing enterprises concentrated
mostly in the Colombo District, 6,000 small and medium industries, and 95,000
small informal agro-industrial units. The private sector employs about 98
percent of the workers in the industrial sector and accounts for about 89
percent of the manufactured value added.
1.06        Policy Reforms.  In 1986, GOSL presented a medium-term Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) with policy objectives that included trade and
industrial sector reforms. Achievement of first year objectives of the PFP
was, however, significantly constrained by civil disturbances spreading to the
South and later by the Parliamentary and Presidential elections in
September/November 1989. As a result, the macro-economic environment
deteriorated sharply during 1987-88 period. In 1989, the new Government,
initiated an adjustment program with the support of the IMF and IDA in the
context of the second year PFP aimed at reducing macro-economic imbalances and
improving the incentive structure for the private sector through
privatization, trade reforms and fiscal adjustment (para 1.25). The 1989
adjustment program was supported by an IMF's Structural Adjustment Facility



3
(SAF) and subsequently complemented by the IDA's Economic Restructuring Credit
(ERC; Credit 2128-CE). Since 1989, there have been considerable efforts to
implement policy reforms in the areas mentioned above. On trade policy
reform, the import tariff structure was substantially simplified, stamp duties
on letter of credit were reduced, and export taxes were eliminated. The
incentive structure consisting of duty rebates and tax holidays were
maintained to promote exports. In order to offer further incentives to the
private sector, income taxes were substantially simplified and both personal
and corporate income taxes were reduced. With the introduction of excise
taxes, the Government reduced custom tariffs and simplified the turnover tax
structure.
3.          Proiect Obiectives and Description
1.07        Project Objectives.  The objectives of the project were to
complement and expand the focus of the IDP-I (Cr. 1401-CE) through further
reform in the areas of trade policy, industrial incentives, export promotion,
public enterprise efficiency and industrial finance and financial policy while
simultaneously supporting project investment in high priority industrial sub-
sectors. More specifically, IDP-II was designed to:
*     meet industrial term lending requirements to increase output,
employment, efficiency and exports of viable medium and large scale
private industrial firms, and a selected number of public sector
manufacturing enterprises;
*     strengthen the operations of the country's two development finance
institutions (DFIs), namely Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
(DFCC) and National Development Bank (NDB);
*     further support the progressive reform of tariffs; reinforce the process
of utilizing effective protection analysis, and address industrial and
export incentive issues to provide a better basis for fostering the
expansion of manufactured exports in line with Sri Lanka's comparative
advantage; and
*     complement the programs to improve efficiency of selected PMEs,
initiated under IDP-I.
1.08        Proiect Description.  The two major components of the project
were: (i) a credit component of SDR 15.7 million (US$ 18.0 million equivalent)
for sub-project financing in the priority areas of agro-industries, light
engineering, chemicals, garments, rubber products, construction related
activities, and industrial service activities; and (ii) a TA component of SDR
1.7 million (USs 2.0 million equivalent). The TA element of the project
focused on: (a) expanding and strengthening the DFIs' operational capacity;
(b) improving the efficiency of selected PMEs; (c) institutionalizing the
tariff reform process, and (d) implementing findings of the policy studies in
the areas of trade and industrial incentives.



4
1.09        The IDA funds for term lending were complemented by a parallel
line of credit of US$ 20.0 million from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) on
terms and conditions similar to those of IDA's. ADB provided full support for
the policy conditionality of the IDA project and supplemented IDA's TA
component by USS 400,000 for staff training and consulting services in DFCC
and NDB.
4.          Project Design and Organization
1.10        IDP-II was similar in design to the IDP-I project (para. 1.04)
with emphasis on sectoral policy reforms. The project, however, took further
steps to address issues in interest rate policies, and recommended that the
project should be used as an instrument to induce the Government to move
towards a rationalization of financial markets, specifically acceptance of the
principle that the lending rate should reflect the cost of funds. The Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) noted that the constraining effects of high interest
rates on economic development in Sri Lanka were compounded by the perverse
relationship of relative rates with medium- and long- term rates being less
than time deposit rates and considerably less than the rates for short term
commercial banks' working capital loans. In April/May 1986, a joint Bank/IMF
financial sector review mission, which focused on the issue, made several
recommendations on the functioning of Sri Lanka's financial markets and the
development of an appropriate interest rate policy. To help ensure that
interest rates were appropriately adjusted during project implementation, the
proceeds of the ADB and IDA projects were divided into two tranches equivalent
to US$ 10.0 million each, with release of second tranche to be made following
agreement between GOSL and IDA on a mechanism for determining appropriate
interest rates for term lending.
1.11        The size of the IDP-II lending was geared to the term lending
capacities of the DFIs, demand by the private sector for industrial finance,
and the total project cost. Based on the 120 medium- and large- scale private
sector sub-projects in the pipelines of the DFIs in mid-1986, total project
cost was estimated at about USS 90.0 million. IDP-II contributed about 21
percent of the project cost; together with the ADB co-financing facility, met
about 40 percent of the needed capital investment by the private sector. The
balance was provided by the DFIs, suppliers' credits and sub-borrowers. The
Government relent the project proceeds to DFCC and NDB for 18 years including
a five-year grace period at an initial rate of 9 percent and 10 percent per
annum, respectively, with the relending rate subject to annual review and
adjustment. The higher rate to NDB was justified as its income was free of
taxes until end of 1989. Effective January 1, 1990 the lending rate to NDB
was reduced to 9 percent. The DFIs, in turn, onlent the proceeds at an
initial rate of 14 percent per annum, with maximum repayment period of 15
years, including a three-year grace period. The initial onlending rate was to
be reviewed annually and revised as necessary to ensure that this remained
positive in relation to medium-term inflation projections and allow an
appropriate spread to the term financing institutions. The foreign exchange
risk was borne by GOSL.



5
1.12        The maximum subloan size was Rs 41.5 million (US$ 1.5 million
equivalent), with a free limit of US$ 300,000 and US$ 400,000 for DFCC and
NDB, respectively. The credit component financed 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 70 percent of local expenditures/civil works of the sub-
projects. The cut-off level for acceptance of sub-projects was an Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) of at least 15 percent.
5.          Proiect Implementation and Results
1.13        IDP-II for SDR 17.4 million (USS 20.0 million equivalent) was
approved on May 8, 1986, signed on July 24, 1986, became effective on October
9, 1986 and closed on June 30, 1994. The project was originally scheduled to
close on December 31, 1993; however, because of unexpected delays in the
completion of some TA programs, funded under this credit, the GOSL requested
IDA to extend the credit closing for six months. A noticeable feature of the
project implementation was that the credit component was committed well ahead
of schedule while the supporting TA for the Government policy reform program
lagged behind the schedule and was not fully utilized.
1.14        The credit component was 95 percent committed to 77 medium and
large scale industries. Appraisal estimated that the project funds would be
committed within four years of Board approval which allowed the DFIs to submit
sub-projects' finance applications for IDA approval until March 1990.
However, because of strong demand for term lending by the private
manufacturing enterprises, the credit component was utilized by October 1988,
17 months ahead of schedule. Due to partial/full cancellation of some of the
sub-loans through the life of the project, 5 percent (about US$ 1.0 million)
of the credit funds remained unutilized of which about 70 percent was
transferred to the TA component per GOSL's request in September 1992. The TA
component (including the transferred funds) was 90 percent utilized. At the
time of project closing, 2 percent (about half a million dollars) of the total
funds remained unutilized and were cancelled. Actual disbursements were well
ahead of the SAR estimates, with an acceleration during the initial period,
1987-1989.
1.15        Implementation and Results of Credit Component.  Implementation of
the Credit component proceeded as planned in the SAR and was satisfactory.
Based on the work of the joint Bank/IMF mission and subsequent discussions
with GOSL, the mechanism/formula for determining long-term interest rates was
agreed with the Government in April 15, 1987. According to the adopted
mechanism, the final onlending rates for long-term loans was linked to the
Average Weighted Prime Rate (AWPR) for the short-term lending operations of
the commercial banks as established daily by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
(CBSL) with GOSL onlending the proceeds of IDA credit to the two DFIs at the
AWPR less spread of 5 percent for DFCC and 4 percent for NDB until December
31, 1989, and 5 percent for NDB thereafter (para 1.11). In turn the DFIs
would be free to lend the funds at any rate they deem appropriate to cover
their costs of borrowing and the operating costs and risks inherent in sub-
loans. The DFIs could provide the option for the sub-borrower to borrow at a
fixed rate for the life of the loan or at a variable rate with periodic
adjustment corresponding to the changes in the AWPR. The onlending rate was



6
to be reviewed and adjusted if necessary on July 1 and January 1 of each year.
The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended accordingly and the second
tranches were released by the Bank and ADB in June 1987.
1.16        The project provided the basis for continuing discussions with
GOSL on major policy issues and paved the way for further IDA commitments in
support of industrial sector operations. The SAR correctly identified that
due to the possible risks that might arise from ethnic disturbances, adequate
number of eligible sub-projects might not materialize and that the sub-
projects already approved by the DFIs might not be able to continue operations
and service their debts. Therefore, steps were taken to carefully monitor the
DFI's operations and performance and viability of existing sub-projects, while
the pipelines and projections of DFIs indicated credit demand well in excess
of amount provided by IDA credit and ADB loan. Despite the continued
political problems, the project was implemented satisfactorily with
commitments and disbursements well ahead of the rate anticipated at the time
of appraisal.
1.17        Sub-Proiects Financed.  The IDA Credit component of the project
generated significant employment by creating about 1,850 jobs with incremental
fixed investment per job of about US$ 25,300. The average size of the sub-
loans was about US$ 243,600 for NDB and US$ 372,500 for DFCC. The ADB loan of
US$ 20.0 million was committed to 186 smaller industries, with average sub-
loan size of about USS 143,300, and created about 4,500 additional jobs (Annex
IX}. For DFCC, the number of large sub-projects requiring prior IDA approval
was 70 percent by amount and 30 percent by number as anticipated in the SAR.
It was envisaged at appraisal that in the case of NDB sub-loans, approximately
70 percent by amount and 40 percent by number would be above the NDB's free
limit and, therefore, require prior IDA approval. Only 8 loans, accounting
for 55 percent by amount, were actually above the free limit (Annex I}. This
happened in part because of sluggish demand for investment in large sub-
projects as a result of the continued ethnic disturbances in the North and
East, spread of civil unrest to the South, and Parliamentary elections (see
para 1.06). One of the positive features of the IDP-II lending was the
relatively low incidence of problem loans.
1.18        The lack of reasonably accurate follow-up data on sub-project
performance has made it difficult to carry out an objective and in-depth
analysis of the benefits of the project. No systematic data are available on
the ex-post ERR to allow an assessment of the actual performance of the sub-
projects. In the absence of such information, IDA requested DFIs to collect
data on the sales, output level, and profitability of sub-projects financed
under the IDA credit component. In terms of financial performance, as
reported by the DFIs, 19 out of 23 sub-projects financed by DFCC and 39 out of
54 of those financed by NDB are performing satisfactorily with profit and
sales higher than expected (Annex IV). The poor performance of some of the
sub-projects seems to have been affected by factors such as lack of
entrepreneurial development and experience/managerial skills on the part of
private investors, political instability, and changes in the world market
conditions that affected the performance of export-oriented projects.



7
1.19        About 26 percent of the sub-loans were made to export-oriented
industries; 92 percent of total sub-loans were used for expansion of existing
industries (Annex I). The sectoral distribution of sub-loans was consistent
with the major areas of activity expected to be financed at the time of
appraisal. The project mainly financed enterprises in metals and chemicals
(33%), food processing (30%), and textiles (12%) (Annex II). About 93 percent
of sub-projects by amount and 70 percent of those by number were concentrated
in a few Districts in the Western Province (Annex III). Demand for sub-
project financing in other parts of the Island was low mainly due to lack of
sufficient infrastructure. Due to continued ethnic disturbances in Northern
and Eastern Provinces no sub-project lending has taken place in these two
Provinces.
1.20        DFCC and NDB Performance in Project Implementation.  Based on a
review of DFCC and NDB operations vis-a-vis other financial institutions and
their satisfactory lending of the IDP-I credit proceeds, these two DFIs were
selected to participate in IDP-II. The overall performance of the DFIs was
satisfactory despite the difficult political and social environments. Both
institutions maintained the financial performance covenants during the life of
the project (Annexes V and VI). The DFI's cash collection ratios were higher
than the IDA's minimum required of 75 percent and their profitability was
satisfactory with returns on assets and on equity well above the covenanted
ratios. Their debt/equity ratios were below the covenanted ratios.
1.21        Implementation and Results of Technical Assistance.  The technical
assistance aimed at: (i) strengthening and expanding the DFIs' operational
capacity (US$ 500,000 to each DFI)1; (ii) improving efficiency of specific
PMEs (US$ 550,000); (iii) institutionalizing the tariff reform process and
implementing trade and industrial policy reform (USS 250,000); and (iv)
developing an integrated Industrial Strategy (US$ 200,000). The actual
utilization during the project implementation, however, was different from
that set out in the SAR (Annex VII). Funds allocated for improving the
efficiency of the PMEs (studies and consultancies) were 70 percent utilized
and those allocated for supporting industrial and trade policy reform programs
(iii and iv) were only 22 percent utilized. Since the TA funds were not used
according to the original allocation, in early 1991, IDA reallocated the
unutilized amounts and made them available for other eligible TA activities.
The DCA was amended accordingly at that time. In the last three years of the
life of the project, the TA funds were mainly used for training programs for
the staff of DFIs and commercial banks, technology development for the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), and supporting the restructuring of the two state-
owned commercial banks (such as financing their operational review and their
international financial audits for 1993). The latter program was approved in
the context of the IDA's support for GOSL's financial sector reform program
(para. 1.26).
1.22        The IDP-II TA programs for institutional development were
implemented satisfactorily and made significant contribution to improving
institutional capabilities of the beneficiaries. The TA for policy reforms,
1/ Figures in parenthesis represent allocation in the Staff Appraisal Report.



8
however, were implemented with mixed results. The SAR lacked clear terms of
reference for implementation of the TA in this area. As the policy reform
programs were also supported under six other IDA (industrial and adjustment)
projects during late 1980s and early 1990s, it is not possible to evaluate
precisely the impact of the IDP-II TA on the policy reforms. The IMF was
simultaneously active in financing and dialogue. As a result, the success of
reform programs addressed by IDP-II and macroeconomic developments during the
life of the project may not all be attributed to this project (para. 1.06 and
1.25).
1.23        DFCC and NDB fully and effectively utilized their TA allocations.
The TA to these two DFIs (under this project and other IDA industrial sector
projects) for their institutional upgrading proved to be very useful. Both
DFCC and NDB have successfully managed to improve the efficiency of their
operations through intensive staff training and restructuring of the
institutions. IDP-II financed two studies to examine the DFIs operations,
business activities, human resources development, and their role in the
financial system. Studies were completed by foreign consultants and
recommendations were implemented based on which the DFIs prepared new
strategies for their business activities. TA for training of the staff of the
CBSL and other commercial banks also helped these institutions to develop
capabilities of their staff in the areas of financial management and sub-
project appraisal and supervision.
1.24        TA funds allocated for improving PMEs efficiency was about 70
percent utilized for three studies and some training programs. In 1987, two
studies were conducted on the Ceramic and Ceylon Plywood Corporations to
review their financial viability and to recommend short-term measures for
improving their operations. However, in 1989, before any major action took
place on these corporations, IDP-II funded a major "Sensitivity Study of the
PMEs" in order to evaluate the financial and economic viability of selected
PMEs. The objective of the study, which covered a sample of about 17 major
public enterprises, was to prepare accounts of these PMEs on a standardized
basis and carry out a sensitivity analysis under various restructuring
scenarios. The study also identified specific trade reforms to improve
efficiency of the manufacturing sector and recommended a time-bound plan for
the privatization of PMEs. The major recommendations of the study were: (i)
to close about 4 public corporations; and (ii) to restructure and privatize a
number of the PMEs. These recommendations provided the background work for
the IDA's Public Manufacturing Enterprises Adjustment Credit (approved in
November 1990) and almost all the recommendations have been implemented.
1.25        The privatization program has made significant progress in
divesting a number of the PMEs since 1989. During the period 1989-1994, the
Government privatized 44 public enterprises including Cement, Tyre, Leather,
Mining and Mineral Development, Hardware, Distilleries, Pugoda and Mattegama
Textile Mills, and Ceramics Corporations. The Sugar, Steel, Paper, and Salt
Corporations are expected to be privatized during the course of 1994/1995.
All the major corporations (except for Petroleum) have been converted to
public companies (under Companies Act) except for few located in the North and
East where there are ethnic disturbances. The TA for implementing the trade
and industrial policy reforms was minimally utilized for training and study



9
tours and did not achieve its objectives.   However, both the Bank and the IMF
have continued to keep an active dialogue with the GOSL in this area under
other IDA projects and IMF programs approved since 1986 (see para. 1.06 for
implementation of some of the GOSL's reform programs since 1986).
1.26        Although the TA provided for the two state bank's operational
review was not within the original objectives of the project, the program was
in line with the overall objectives of the IDA Third Small and Medium
Industries Project (SMI-III; Credit 1860-CE) which was approved in 1988. SMI-
III initiated measures to improve the financial sector operations including TA
to the two state owned commercial banks, People's Bank (PB) and Bank of Ceylon
(BOC). The operational review of the banks (Annex VIII) that started in 1988
under SMI-III and IDP-II was undertaken by two international consultancy
firms. These studies were continued and further funded under other IDA
industrial sector operations (SMI-IV and IDP-III) and completed in 1992.
1.27        Although the use of TA funds by BOC has been relatively
satisfactory, the impact of TA for PB has been low. BOC has taken appropriate
actions to implement the recommendations of the studies to improve the credit
policies and procedures. It, however, failed to implement the recommendations
in the area of technology (disregarding the consultants' recommendations on
suitable computer software) and human resources (because of possible adverse
reactions from staff unions). BOC has reorganized the head office and some of
the regional offices and is in the process of reorganizing the branches.
BOC's Management Information System (MIS) has also been improved. As for the
PB consultancy, the result was not satisfactory with respect to both the
consultants performance and the project implementation by the bank. Despite
IDA's continuous support, no progress has been made on the project
implementation in the areas of the organization structure, human resource
management, and MIS. Recommendations in the area of credit policy have been
partially implemented and branch reorganization is proceeding slowly.
Although SCBs implemented some of the recommendations of the studies, improved
the functions of some units, and automated a limited number of their branches,
they failed to implement a major restructuring which was the principal
objective of the consultancies. The result was not as good as it was expected
because of the slippage in the implementation of the financial sector reform
program.
1.28        GOSL's Performance in the Implementation of TA.  As the TA
programs, under the IDA industrial policy operations, became more directed
towards policy reforms in the areas of industrial and trade policy reforms and
improving the performance of the PMEs, the need for a unit to coordinate
processing and monitoring the TA programs was recognized by both GOSL and IDA.
Therefore, the Third Industrial Development Project which was approved in July
1988 proposed the establishment of an IDP Monitoring Unit (IMU) in the
National Planning Department (NPD) of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) (formerly
the Ministry of Finance and Planning). The NPD was the focal point of
formulation of industrial development during 1980s and actively participated
in the preparation of the IPS of 1986. In 1989, because of political changes
(see para 1.06), the functions of the NPD were changed and the IMU was
transferred to the External Resource Department of the MOF. The Unit was also
required to coordinate and monitor the IDP-II TA programs. IMU was not



10
effective in monitoring the TA programs mainly because of staff shortage and
lack of the necessary follow-up and a proper recording system. Despite IDA's
efforts in supporting the unit through funding the consultants, computers,
training, and recommendations during supervision missions, IMU did not
properly and effectively monitor the TA activities.
6.          Project Sustainabilitv
1.29        The sustainability of development finance investment operations
depend, to a large extent, on factors such as: (i) the success of the sub-
borrowers with respect to their profitability and rate of return; (ii)
financial viability and sustainability of the credit institutions; (iii)
efficient use of the supporting TA funds in building and strengthening
institutions involved in project implementation; and (iv) Government's
compliance with project conditionality and macroeconomic management, in
particular in the areas of trade and industrial policy as well as financial
sector reform.
1.30        Sub-Projects' Performance.  The sustainability of benefits of sub-
projects is difficult to assess due to inadequate information on ex-post
economic rate of return. However, based on the information provided by the
two DFIs on the success of the financed sub-projects in terms of
profitability, output level and their overall satisfactory employment
generation, expected net benefit of the projects is likely to be sustainable.
The strong demand for this type of financing by the private manufacturing
industries in Sri Lanka has been supported by subsequent IDA credits (IDP-III
and PFDP). The long-term sustainability of the sub-projects is partly
dependent on their sound capital structure which can be achieved through
encouraging a higher share of equity participation by the industries.
Consequently, IDP-II required 30 percent equity participation for local
expenditures and civil works. This ratio increased to 40 percent for total
expenditures in the recent IDA financial intermediation operation, PFDP.
1.31        DFIs' Performance.  A large amount of TA funds under all IDA
industrial sector operations was allocated for the institutional development
of the DFIs. These TA programs (training, consultancies, etc.) proved to be
very useful and have had significant impacts on the DFIs operations. The two
DFIs are, in general, financially viable and well managed institutions. Their
loan collection performance, which is an important indicator for
sustainability of the project financed, has been satisfactory for IDP-II
operation and IDA other industrial sector projects (four SMIs and IDP-III).
1.32        Another factor that affects project finance is the external
environment in which the credit institutions operate. Sri Lanka has had eight
successive industrial investment credits, with overlapping objectives,
financed by IDA in a period of 14 years starting 1979. The evidence is that
the financial institutions remain dependent on the GOSL and multilateral
donors for funding their long-term development lending. Virtually all
financial institutions in Sri Lanka with access to primary term savings (such
as: Employees' Trust Fund, Employees' Provident Funds, Sri Lanka Insurance
Corporations, etc.) are publicly controlled and invest their funds on either a



I1
short-term basis or on longer dated public securities issued at managed rates.
Insufficient access to term savings and lack of secondary markets in debt
instruments have made it difficult for private entrepreneurs to obtain
domestically funded term loans. Thus, funds provided through the multilateral
agencies have been the major source of term lending through commercial
channel.
1.33        Although the project was, in general, implemented satisfactorily,
the positive impact of this project and other financial intermediation
operations may not be sustainable in the long-term without improving the
efficiency in the financial sector and strengthening the institutional
framework within which financial institutions operate. Sri Lanka's financial
institutions are relatively diverse and sophisticated and are capable of
assisting private borrowers with at least short-term working capital lending.
Yet, there are a number of problems -- inability to mobilize long-term
domestic resources for term-lending; weakness in debt recovery legislation and
banking supervision, etc. The recently approved PFDP addressed these issues.
Through this project, IDA is attempting to help the GOSL in changing and
strengthening the role of financial institutions that have access to term
savings, and strengthening the local bond market in order to mobilize domestic
resources for long-term investment. GOSL's success in implementing the
elements of the financial sector reform program is the key to the long-term
sustainability of the intermediation operations that have been designed to
support the industrial sector projects. Unless the commercial banks and the
DFIs can channel the domestically funded term savings to the private
manufacturing sector, it is unlikely that they would be able to keep their
current level of long-term development lending.
7.          IDA's Performance
1.34        The project was designed based on an assessment of potential
demand for funds for medium- and large- scale industrial investment and on the
satisfactory experience of IDP-I. IDA was diligent in recognizing the need
for further policy reforms in the areas of trade, industrial incentives, and
financial sector issues and moved expeditiously to respond to the GOSL's
urgent need for the preparation of second line of credit for industrial term
lending. By focusing on interest rate policy reform and collaborating with
the IMF and Government to accomplish this goal, IDA contributed effectively to
the success of policy reforms. The design of the project was adequate except
in providing a detailed and clear terms of reference and implementation plan
for the TA component, in particular in the areas of policy reforms.
Preparation of the SAR was also timely.
1.35        IDA played a significant role in DFIs institutional development
over the last 14 years starting initially with the first two SMI projects and
later through a series of IDPs/SMI projects. This made the implementation of
the credit component smooth and successful. IDA, however, did not adequately
address the need for a centralized unit/agency for monitoring, supervision and
reporting of the TA component. Given the continual delays in GOSL's
compliance with the audit requirement for the project accounts, IDA should



12
have taken some actions to remedy the problem at the early stages of the
project.
1.36        IDA sent twelve supervision missions beginning with project
effectiveness (October 1986), with the last mission in April 1994 prior to
project closing (June 1994). Most of the supervision missions were combined
with those of IDA's other industrial projects. The ambitious objectives and
broad scope of the TA programs under these projects, various policy related
issues, large number of beneficiaries, and lack of clear and detailed terms of
reference and implementation time table of the TA programs had made
supervision of the TA more difficult and less effective. IDA needs to
strengthen the emphasis of its supervision effort for the TA activities and
improve upon the design of the TA programs. Clear and specific objectives of
the TA programs, their link to the project objective, right allocation of
funds, and potential benefit of the TA are the key factors to the
effectiveness of TA programs and should be identified at early stages of the
project. Goals under TAs should be set up so that they can reasonably be
achieved. Similarly, tasks under TAs should be set up at a level of
difficulty that the recipient feels capable and confident of meeting. With
this in mind, IDA should ensure that all parties appreciate the time that may
be required to achieve the objectives, and take steps to maintain the TA
recipients' commitment to implement the elements of the TA programs on a par
with the utilization of the credit component.
8.          Borrower's Performance
1.37        Project reporting for the credit component was, overall,
satisfactory; that for the TA component was sporadic and of poor quality
mainly as a result of the weaknesses of the Project Monitoring Unit in the
Ministry of Finance. Despite continuous efforts by IDA supervision missions
to strengthen the reporting system of the MOF, the Unit still remains
ineffective. Another factor that affected the poor implementation of the TA
programs in the policy reform areas was that the commitment made by the
relevant ministries to effectively utilize the TA funds for the implementation
of the elements of these programs did not fully materialize during the project
implementation. GOSL's performance on providing timely Audits of the Project
Accounts was unsatisfactory. The 1992 and 1993 project accounts have not yet
been submitted to the Association.
1.38        The DFIs were timely on submission of their financial accounts and
managed to maintain the eligibility criteria under the project and effectively
channeled the credit proceeds to viable and eligible private manufacturing
enterprises. They utilized the TA funds effectively and improved their
financial and administrative operations.
9.          Project Relationships
1.39        The overall relationship between IDA and the DFIs in the
implementation of the project was good. Regular reporting of the status of
the credit component by the DFIs and their close working relationship with



13
IDA, during the supervision missions, were instrumental to satisfactory
implementation of the credit component. The collaboration between the
ministries/institutions received TA and IDA, however, was not as strong. IDA
supervision missions should have spent more time with the TA beneficiaries
with regard to their utilization of TA funds and should have identified
weaknesses in this area from the beginning of project implementation.
10.         Proiect Documentation and Data
1.40        In general, the DCA and SAR were adequate and used by the DFIs for
guidance in project implementation. However, reported data on IDP-II project
has, in general, been inadequate both for the credit and TA components. For
the preparation of the PCR, some data related to the credit component was
available from the DFIs. Data for the TA, however, was collected with
considerable difficulty. During the last three supervision missions, IDA
worked closely with the IMU staff to reconcile information on disbursements
and commitments. The IMU, in turn, tried to coordinate with the relevant
ministries to obtain additional information on the implementation of the TA
programs. Upon the request from IDA, a short-term local consultant was hired
by the IMU to prepare the actual utilization of the TA component and
computerize the information.
11.         Consulting Services
1.41        The quality of the work and the benefits stemming from the
consultancies for the TA programs varied. The DFIs fully benefited from the
services of foreign consultants for their operational review and implemented
most of the recommendations derived from the studies. The consultancies for
the restructuring of the BOC and PB were completed as scheduled. Although the
quality of work performed by the consultants selected by BOC was, in general,
adequate and satisfactory, the consultants for PB did not perform to the
satisfaction of the bank. Lack of continuity in their teams, recommending
practices of the USA without any consideration to local needs and culture, and
overlapping the terms of reference for different stages of the studies were
the main factors for their poor performance.
12.         Conclusions and Lessons Learned
1.42        Overall, the project was implemented satisfactorily and achieved,
for the most part, its main objectives. IDP-II was committed quickly because
of the initial strong demand for financing from the private industrial sector
and disbursements were ahead of the SAR schedule. The employment impact of
thie sub-projects was significant. About two-thirds of the sub-projects
performed satisfactorily with profit and sales higher than expected. Both
DFIs were successful in managing the IDP-II loan portfolio with a high loan
recovery rate. The TA for institutional development of the DFIs and other
financial institutions had significant impact on improving the capabilities of
their staff in sub-project appraisal and supervision.



14
1.43        Due to slow utilization of TA funds in the areas of trade and
industrial policy reforms, the TA funds were made available for some
activities of the financial sector reform programs.
1.44        The implementation experience of the IDP-II provides a number of
important lessons, pertaining to the design, implementation, supervision of
both the credit and TA components.
(i)   Sustainability of project finance is, in general, affected by the
internal operational efficiency of the credit institutions as well as by
the policy and regulatory environment in which they operate.
Satisfactory loan collection performance reflects internal
operational efficiency of the DFIs (e.g. effective appraisal and
supervision) and is, inter alia, an important indicator of program
sustainability. Successful implementation of the credit component
of the IDP-II project was partly due to the efficient internal
operations of the DFIs.
However, a prerequisite for the sustainability of long-term
finance is the need for an efficient financial sector within which
financial institutions are to operate. For a satisfactory
implementation of the financial intermediation operations, which
are the vehicles for channeling term resources to the private
industrial sector, financial policies at should be strengthened.
(ii)  Effective monitoring and supervision of the project by both IDA and the
borrower including a proper reporting system in the Government is
integral to the success of the project. The GOSL was not successful in
monitoring the utilization of the TA funds and follow-up activities of
the TA programs. A major weakness in the design of the IDP-II was the
absence of a clear responsibility for coordinating and supervising the
implementation of the TA. The quality of supervision and administration
could be improved by either developing a strong and up-to-date
monitoring and reporting system. The APEX system (Government agencies
or Private sector), commonly used in other IDA's operations, could, if
properly designed, help minimize such weaknesses.
(iii) TA design is critical to effective implementation of the project and to
achieving the level of success that is needed to promote the assisted
entity's self-reliance and should have the following characteristics.
Responsibilities for monitoring and reporting on TA activities and
structure should be agreed and put into place at an early stage of
the project;
Goals should be set realistically so that they can be reasonably
achieved;
*     Tasks under TA for policy reform programs and institutional
development should be set so that the recipients feel capable of
implementing the program and achieving the TA's objectives;



15
*     IDA should spend enough time with all the parties to ensure that
the TA recipients maintain their commitments throughout the life
of the project;
*     SAR should precisely define the terms of reference of the TA
programs and set a realistic time table for their implementation,
taking into account the capabilities of the TA recipients as well
as prevailing political constraints;
*     To ensure effectiveness of the TA programs, both IDA and
Government should identify specific objectives of TA program,
their link to the project objective, right allocation of funds,
and potential benefits of the TA at early stages of the project
and monitor these criteria during the implementation phase; and
*     IDA should effectively supervise and evaluate the TA programs of
preceding projects and learn from the implementation experience of
the past projects before defining the elements of the TA for a new
project.
June 7. 1995



16
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
2.01    The Government agrees with the Bank's comments that the credit
component of the project was implemented satisfactorily well ahead of
appraisal estimates. High demand for investment financing by manufacturing
enterprises and successful implementation of credit component by the two DFIs
mainly contributed to the satisfactory implementation of credit component.
2.02     Implementation of the technical assistance component other than the
TA programs for institutional development of DFIs suffered due to non-
availability of a proper coordination mechanism for TA. This was later
identified both by the Bank and the Government and the Industrial Project
Monitoring Unit (IMU) was established at the National Planning Department
(NPD) of the then Ministry of Finance and Planning. However, IMU was not able
to function effectively due to staff shortages and change of location from
time to time. The IMU was transferred to the External Resources Department
(ERD) in April 1989 but relocated again in the NPD in 1991. It was
transferred back to ERD in 1993.
2.03     The Government has however been able to derive benefits from the TA
activities funded under the project. Particularly important to mention is the
PME Sensitivity Study which provided background work for the privatization of
PMEs under IDA Public Manufacturing Enterprises Adjustment Credit. Apart from
that TA funds made available as a result of transferring of unutilized credit
funds to the TA component have been utilized for useful purposes.
2.04    As pointed out by the Bank it is not possible to evaluate impact of
the TA component of IDP-II on the Government Trade and Industrial policy
reform program because there were other projects financed by IDA and ADB with
overlapping objectives and policy reforms in operation during the same period.
The Government efforts in the reform trade and industrial policy continued
throughout the period and led to the establishment of simplified import tariff
and income tax structures among other reforms in import taxes, incentive
schemes to promote exports and foreign investment and formulation of a new
industrial strategy.
2.05    The project reporting, particularly on the technical assistance
component was weak at the early stage of the project due to non-availability
of staff at the IMU. This position was corrected at the latter part of the
project and all transactions under the TA component were reconciled by end of
1993.
2.06     The Government agrees with the Bank's comments that due to
insufficient access to primary term savings the DFIs continue to depend on
funds provided through multilateral agencies to sustain the momentum of their
lending operations. The Government has already initiated steps to address the
issues and evolve a satisfactory, sustainable long-term solution.



17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1692
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.          Related Bank Loans
Credit Title/Amount                         Purpose                                                       Year of    Status
Approval
Small and Medium Industries,                Promote private industrial deveLopment focusing on            1979              Closed on
$ 16 m (SMI I)                              SMI's assistance through addressing constraints                                 6/30/85
Credit 942-CE                               hindering their rapid growth in order to increase
their contribution to employment generation, export
expansion, and economic growth.
Second Small and Medium                     To support and expand on the SMI I objectives.                1981              Closed on
Industries Proj., S 28 m (SMI II)                                                                                           12/31/87
Credit 1182-CE
Industrial Development Project              Provide term credit through DFIs to assist in                 1983             Closed on
(IDP-I), S 25 m                             strengthening the system of industrial financing,                              9/30/88
Credit 1401-CE                              assist in trade and industrial reforms, and provide
technical assistance to improve selected PMEs.
Third Small and Medium                      Complement and expand previous industrial sector              1988              Closed on
Industries Project                          operations by: (i) providing credit to the SMI                                 6/30/93
S 20 m                                      private manufacturing enterprises; and (ii) make a
(SMI-III) Credit 1860-CE                    further contribution to policy reform and
institutional strengthening in the areas of tariff
administration, export promotion and financial
sector operations.
Third Industrial Development                Complement previous and on-going industrial sector            1989              On-going
Project                                     operations to provide credit through banking system                             Closing
S 43.8                                      to medium- and large-scale private industrial                                   6/30/95
(IDP-III) Credit 1948-CE                    enterprises, support implementation of GOSL's
policy reforms and institutional strengthening.
Fourth Smalt and Medium                     Complement previous and on-going industrial and               1991             On-going
Industries Project                          financial sector intermediation; to provide credit                             Closing
S 45 m                                      for SMI development and to make further                                         10/31/96
(SMI-IV) Credit 2250-CE                     contributions to policy reform and institutional
strengthening in the area of trade policy
administration and financial sector operations.
Private Finance Development                 Provide investment finance to the private sector;             1993              On-going
Project; USS 60 m                           assist in domestic resource mobilization for long-                              Closing
(PFDP) Credit 2484-CE                       term investment by stimulating the development of                              6/30/99
local bond market; further assist the GOSL in
improving the financial sector operations through
strengthening the financial intermediation
including the key players such as contractual
savings institutions.



18
2.      Project Time Table
Item                           Date Planned        Actual Date
Identification/EPS              3/1985              3/1985
Appraisal Mission                7/1985             7/1985
Credit Negotiations              4/1986             4/1986
Board Approval                   5/1986             5/1986
Credit Signature                 7/1986             7/1986
Credit Effectiveness            10/1986            10/1986
Credit Closing                  12/1993             6/1994
Credit Account Closing           4/1994            10/1994
3.      Credit Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Millions'
FY87    FY88    FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Appraisal Estimate         3.0    6.0    10.0   15.0   17.0   18.5   19.5   20.0
Actual 1/                  6.3   13.2    16.7   19.3   19.7   21.3   21.6   22.3
Actual as % of           210.0  220.0   167.0  128.6  115.8  115.1  110.7  111.5
estimate
1/ The actual amount in US$ is higher than the original US$ amount equivalent of SDR 17.4
million due to exchange rate differences between SDR and US$ during the life of the
project.
4.      Project ImDlementation
Indicator                                Appraisal Estimate           Actual
Number of sub-projects financed                --                        77
Average Size of sub-loans                     --               USS 282,074



19
5.       Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs, IDA Component
USS Millions
Item                             SAR Estimate                 Actual Utilization
a.  Term loan for Sub-Projects       18.0                             17.1
b.  Technical Assistance               2.0                             2.6
Component
Total                            20.0                             19.7
B. Project Financing (US$. million)
Source                      Planned SAR                 Approximate Actual Util.l/
IDA                          20.0                             28.0   1/
ADB                          20.0                             26.7   2/
DFIs                         20.5
Government                    2.0                              NA
Sub-borrowers                20.5                             14.8
Suppliers Credits            12.0                              3.4  3/
Total                        94.0                             72.9  4/
1/ Approximation is due to using the conversion factor to calculate the actual
commitments made in Rupees (during the life of project) in terms of US$.
2/ IDA + DFIs; 3/ ADB + DFIs; 4/ For IDA component only;
5/ Actual Utilization was likely to be higher.
6.       Project Results
Indicator                               Appraisal Estimate          Actual
a. Employment Generated                       2,500                    1,875
b. Incremental Cost/Job                         --               US$ 25,372
c. Economic/Financial                           NA                    NA
Rates of Return
7.       Status of Covenants
The GOSL and executing agencies were generally in compliance with covenants
except for the audits of the project accounts which were continuously delayed.
The 1992 and 1993 audits of the projects accounts are still overdue. DFIs were
in general in compliance with all the covenants.



20
8.      UBe of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Week)
FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93  FY94
Preparation  17.9   11.7
Appraisal    10.3   21.9
Negotiation           1.0
Supervision                14.6   8.5   12.8   8.0   5.9   8.9   8.3   7.8
Other                                                                     8.0
Total 1/     29.2   34.6  14.6   8.5   12.8   8.0   5.9   8.9   8.3  15.8
1/ The total staff weeks were 146.6
B. Missions
Stage of           Month/           Date        Rating
Project            Year             of
Cycle                               Return
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision I      11/1986           11/21/1986      1
Supervision II    10/1987            10/08/1987      2
Supervision III   12/1987            12/11/1987      2
Supervision IV      7/1988            7/28/1988      2
Supervision V      11/1988           11/20/1988      2
Supervision VI      5/1989            5/11/1989      2
Supervision VII   12/1989            12/22/1989      2
Supervision VIII  12/1990            12/15/1990      2
Supervision IX      9/1991            9/05/1991      2
Supervision X       7/1992            7/10/1992      2
Supervision XI      6/1993            6/18/1993      2
Supervision XII    4/1994             4/24/1994      2



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUB-LOAN FINANCING - UNDER IDA CREDIT
NDB                      DFCC                            Total NDB + DFCC
Amounl/No.            % of Total
Sub-projects costs (Rs. Million)                                        881                        513                      1,394                 100%
O which:
IDA                                                                    385                       251                        636                  46%
Client                                                                 283                       151                        434                  31%
DFI                                                                    190                        24                        214                  150/o
Other                                                                   23                        87                        110                   8 0D/
% ol Sub-Projects Above Free Limit
Amount (Net of Cancellations)                                          55%                       75%
Number                                                                 15%                       30%
Number of Sub-Projects                                                   54                         23                        77
Of Which:
Export-Oriented Sub-Projects                                            1 2                        B                         20                  26%
Expansion Sub-Projects                                                  53                        18                         71                  92%
Number of Jobs Created                                                1,380                       495                      1,875
Average Cost / Jobs (Rs.)                                           638,651                  1,035,374                   743,386
Average Cost / Jobs (US Dollar) 11                                   21,797                     35.337                    25,372
Average Size of Sub-Loans (US Dollars) 11 21                        243,577                   372,459                    282,074
1/ Conversion factor is the average exchange rates for 1986-1988.
21 IDA Credit Component divided by the number of sub-projects.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-PROJECTS
NDB                                                   DFCC                                                 TOTAL
No. ol       Amount Approved   Amouni                 No. ol        Amount Approved   Amount                No. of        Amount Approved   Amount
Sub-Proj.        (Rs. Million)     h Share           Sub-Proj.         (Rs. Million)    it Share           Sub-Pro;.          (As. Million)    it Share
Food,Beverages&Tobacco                           10                    153       17.4%                   9                   267       52.1io                19                    420      30.20%
Agriculture. AgroBusiness& Fishery                3                     16        1.8%                                                                         3                     16        1. 1
Textile &Weaving Apparel                         12                    155       17.6%                   2                     17       3.2b                 14                    171      12.30
Wood and Paper Products                           2                     28        3.2%                   1                      6        1.20h                 3                     35       2.5%          M
Rubber and Leather Products                       6                    70         8.0%                                                                         6                     70       5.0%
Metal and Chemicals                              11                   372        42.3%                   6                     90      17.5%                  17                    462      33.2.
Services Industrios                               2                     37        4.1%                   1                      1       0.2%,8                 3                     38       2.7h
Miscellaneous                                     8                     50        5.7%                   4                    132      25.8h                 12                    182      13. 1%
Total Amount (Rs. Million) 1/                   54                    881       100.0%,i               23                    513      100.0%                 77                  1,394     100.0,i
% of Total                                   70.1%                  63.2,6                         29.9%                  36.8'
1/ Amount include contribution by DFls, Client and others.
N.,



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-PROJECTS
NDB                                         DFCC                                         Total
No. of      Amount      Amount               No. of      Amount      Amount               No. of     Amount       Amount
Sub-Proj.    (Rs. M)      % share            Sub-Proj.   (Rs. M)       % share            Sub-Proj.   (Rs. M)       0/0 share
Colombo                           28          308        35.0%                 19         388        75.7%                  47         696        50.0A
Gampaha                           16          484        55.0%                  2          111        21.6%                 18         595        42.7/
Galle                              2            3         0.3%                  -            -           -                   2           3         0.2 0h
Putlalam                           1          43          4.9%                  -            -           -                   1          43         3.10h
Kandy                              2           15         1.7%                  -            -           -                   2           15         1.0%l
Kalulara                           2            8         0.9%                  -            -           -                   2           8         0.6%
Rathnapura                         2           14         1.6%                  -            -           -                   2          14         1.0%l
Malara                             1            6         0.7%                  -            -           -                   1           6         C.50/
Kurunenegala &                     -            -           -                   2          14         2.7%                   2          14         1.0%l
N' Eliya
TOTAL                            54         881       100.0%                  23         513       100.0%                 77        1,394       100.0%



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUB-PROJECTS' PERFORMANCE
Sub-Projects Perlormance                                                            NDB3                                      DFCC
Number        % Share oa 54               Number        % Share of 23
Sub-Projecis                              Sub-Projects
No. of Profitabe Sub-Projects
a) Sales > Expected                                                            39            72.2%
b) Profits > Expected                                                          27            50.0%                       19             82.6%
No. of Financially Shaky Sub-Projects
a) Sales < Expected                                                            15            27.8%
b) Profits < Expected                                                          27            50.0%                        4             17.4%
c) Closed Down Projects                                                         2             3.7%                        0
No. of Sub-Projects had
a) Cost overruns                                                                6            11.1%                        a             34.8%
b) Completed al Cost                                                           45            83.3%                       13             56.5%
c) Completed Below Cost                                                         3             5.6%                        2              8.7%



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - DFCC 1)
FY          FY          FY           FY          FY          FY
88/89       89/90       90/91        91/92       92/93       93/94             Covenanted Financial Indicalors
Cash Collection Ratio(%)                               82.3        85.8         88.7        93.2         88.9        87.7          Min. Cash Collection: 75%
Return on Average Net Worth (%)                        24.6        29.5         31.6        36.0         31.3        28.3          Min. Return on net worth   90/
Return on Average Total Assets (%)                      3.2         4.1          4.7         6.1          5.6         6.9          Min. Return on Assets = 2%
0n
Debt / Equity Ratio (times)                             6.4         5.6          5.2         3.7          3.7         1.9          Max. Debt/Equity = 7
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)                     2.7         2.2          2.7         2.9          2.3         2.5          Min. Debt Service Coverage = 1.2
1/ DFCC's fiscal year Is April I to March 31.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - NDB 11
1988        1989         1990         1991         1992        1993           Covenanled Financial Indicalors
CashCollection Ratio                               75.6         80.4         91.1         89.3        90.7         90.4          Min. Cash Colleclion: 75%
Return on Average Net Worth (%)                     8.2          7.9         11.0         15.3        15.3         27.1          Min. Return on net worth = 9%
Return on Average Total Assets (%)                  7.8          7.5          8.3         10.1        10.6         13.6          Min. Return on Assets = 2%
Debt / Equity Ratio (limes)                         1.7          1.9          2.4          2.9         3.9          3.8          Max. Debl/Equity = 4
Debt Service Coverage Ralio (times)                12.3          3.3          2.7          3.4         2.7          2.7          Min. Debt Service Coverage   1.2
1/ NDB's fiscal year is January 1 to December 31.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - ALLOCATION AND UTILIZATION (IN SDR)
Boneliciary                                               TA                   Amount              Amount         Amo6nt utilized
Inslitutions                                           Programs                Allocated           Utilized      as t of allocated
per SAR
DFCC - Institutional Upgrading                 Training. consultancy                425.000             424,340              100b
NOB - Instilutional Upgrading                  Training. consultancy                425,000             332,922               78%
Ministry or Industry                          Irnproving efficiency                  467.500            325,300               70%
Ministry of Finance and NDB                    of specific PMEs
Ministry of Finance                           Implemenling the trade                382,500              84.000               22A
and ind. policy reform                                                                                                   -
People's Bank                                  Operalional Review 1/                      0             179.910
Bank ot Ceylon                                 Opoiational Roviow 1/                      0             288,090
People's Bank and                              1993 Inlnwnational 1/                      0             234.630
Bank of Ceylon                                 Financial Audits
IMU                                            Consultancy & computerizatlio              0              14,160
Instilute of Chartered                         Consultancy 1/                             0              13.400
Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL)
Finance & Banking Commission                   Studies 1/                                 0              53.840
Central BanklCommercial Banks                  Training 11                                0              60,376
TOTAL                                                                            1.700.000           2.010,968          118.29,t
Total (incl. SDR 533,200 transfor troin Credit componentl)                       2.233.200           2.010.968           90.050,%b
1/ Activities not Initially planned in SAR.



28                                Annex VIII
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
People's Bank Operational Review
Under the TA component of IDP-II & III and SMI-I-1 & IV, PB received a
total of US$ 2.4 million for its Operational Review (OR) of all aspects of the
Bank's activities. The work was done by an international consulting firm in
four Phases.
Phase I (June 20, 1988 to August 25, 1988) -- This phase involved
carrving out a diagnostic study to identify shortcomings in critical areas and
providing recommendations for improvement.  Specifically, this phase was to
review and improve: (i) the organization structure and operating system; (ii)
the accounting system and the MIS; (iii) credit policy, credit analysis; and
credit supervision; (iv) the status of automation; and (v) Bank's personnel
policy. Funded under credit 1860-CE (SMI-III).
Phase II (Mav 14, 1990 to 31 Aucrust 1990) -- This phase was to implement
the findings and recommendations of Phase I. The consultants provided a
proposal regarding operational structure and role of Senior Management which
is yet to be revised and finalized. The consultants also prepared four
manuals; namely, Operational Manual, Human Resource Management Manual, General
Ledger Manual, and Inter Branch System Manual. Funded under credit 1860-CE.
Phase III (was done at the same time as Phase II) -- Consultants
reviewed the credit portfolio as at December 31, 1990 and prepared a Credit
Policies Manual. Funded under credit 1860-CE.
Phase IV (June 19, 1991 to August 8. 1992) -- The work focused on: (i)
improving procedures for processing international transactions (under
implementation); (ii) improving the procedures for credit processing (yet to
be introduced into branch network); and (iii) proposing an independent and
centralized treasury (implemented by creating a treasury department).  Funded
under credit 1692-CE (IDP-II) and 2250-CE (SMI-IV).
Bank Of Ceylon Operational Review
Under the TA components of the four projects, BOC received about US$ 2.6
million for its operational review. The consultancv started in June 1988.
The objectives of TA were to re-design the structures of the Bank in order to
make the bank functions more efficiently in all aspects of its activities.
The consultants worked on six broad programs over a period of four years.
1) Head office and province office organization, design, and
implementation.
2) 3ranch operations restructuring.
3) Credit policy (manuals, Sick Industries Clinic, etc.).
4) Human resource Development and performance management.
5) Management Information Svstem (MIS).
6) Technology (5 year Tech. plan, purchase of software, improve customer
services in branches, standardization of computer functionality in
branches, etc.).






IMAGING
Report No:        14'700
Type: PCR



