Dowse .Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICILU USE ONLY
Ck8 /C?2- CC
Report No. P-4284-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDRs 17.4 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 21, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  -
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaLion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee
US$1.00        -  SL Rs 27.4
SL Re 1.00     -  US$0.036
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMNS
BMEE    -   Balancing, Modernizing, Rehabilitation and
Expan.sion Investments
CBC     -   Central Bank of Ceylon
DFCC    -   Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
DFIs    -   Development Finance Institutions
EDB     -   Export Development Bank
IDB     -   Industrial Development Board
IDP I  -   Industrial Development Project I
IDP II -   Industrial Development Project II
IPC     -   Industrial Policy Committee
ITC     -   Interim Tariff Commission
HISA    -   Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs
!DFP    -   Ministry of Finance and Planning
NDB     -   National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
NSB     -   National Savings Bank
PEs     -   Public Enterprises
SKI     -   Small and Medium Industries
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:          Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiaries:    Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and
the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDO)-the
Development Finance Institutions (DFIs).
Amount:            SDRs 17.4 million (US$20.0 million equivalent).
Terms:             Standard
RelendinD Terms:  The Government would relend the credit proceeds to DFCC
and NDB for 18 years including a five-year grace period
at an initial rate of 9 percent and 10 percent
per annum, respectively. The DFIs would onlend the
proceeds at 14 percent per annum. The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by the Government.
Proiect            The proposed project would finance the foreign exchange
Description:    cost of new and balancing, modernizing, rehabilitation and
expansion investments (BNRE) by private sector firms.
Funds also would be provided for the BMR of public
enterprise units needing to restructure their facilities to
improve efficiency. The project is designed to assist the
Borrower to implenent reforms in the areas of trade policy,
industrial incentives, export promotion, public enterprise
efficiency and industrial finance and financial policy.
The project vould also provide technical assistance to
(a) the DFIs to assist then in improving their operating
efficiency and diversifying the range of their activities
and funding sources; (b) Government to develop a comprehen-
sive performance signalling system covering all major state
industrial corporations (SICs) and rehabilitate individual
public sector enterprises; and (c) consolidate existing
studies and to develop a comprehensive industrial strategy.
The benefits arising from the project would be more effi-
cient investment in the industrial sector; improved perfor-
mance of public enterprises; and increased employment
opportunities. Although a risk exists that an adequate
number of eligible subprojects would not materialize, the
project pipeline and projections indicate a credit demand
well in excess of the amount to be provided by the proposed
credit. There is also a risk that collection rates could
deteriorate, but the project provides for strengthening the
appraisal and supervision capabilities of the DFIs and for
This document has a restric distribution and may be used by recipientS only in the performance
of their official dutie hts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



portfolio restructuring to help minimize this risk. The
risk that the Govern-eut would not proceed with policy
reform as rapidly as expected is minimal, because (a) the
Goverment has already begun to take a nmber of important
steps to improve industrial policy, and (b) the Association
vould continue to closely monitor developments through its
econaaic and sector work and project supervision.
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreian    Total
-----(US$ Million)----
Subproject Investment         40.0        50.0       90.0
Technical Assistance           2.0         24.0
42.0        52.0       94.0
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total
(US$ Million)----
IDA                             -         20.0       20.0
ADB                             -         20.0       20.0
GOSL                           1.0         -          1.0
DFIs                          20.5         -         20.5
Suppliers' Credits/
Other Agencies                -         12.0       12.0
Sponsors                      20.5-                  20.5
42.0        52.0       94.0
Disbursements:
Bank Group
Fiscal Year   FY87   ms    ZY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
-( 3 S$ Million)--…
Annual        3.0    3.0     4.0    5.0    2.0    1.5    1.0    0.5
Cumulative    3.0    6.0    10.0   15.0   17.0   18.5   19.5   20.0
Economic Rate     A minimum ERR of 15 percent would be required for all
of Return:      subprojects.
Staff ApRraisal
Report:         No. 6009-CE, dated April 21, 1986
bv:               BIERD 17278



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for
SDRs 17.4 million (US$20.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a second industrial development project. The Government would relend
the credit proceeds to the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC)
and the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDI) at an interest rate of
9 and 10 percent per annum, respectively, with a repayment period of 18 years
including a five-year grace period. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) would
provide about US$20 million through a parallel line of credit on comparable
terms.
PART I - THE ECONOKY
2.      A country economic memorandum, "Sri Lanka:  Recent Economic
Developments and Policies for Growth" (Report No. 5628-CE, dated May 14,
1985) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 28, 1985. Country
data are provided in Annex I.
3.      After almost ten years of low growth at 2.9 percent per annum, Sri
Lanka, in 1977, initiated a new development strategy. It entailed a package
of policy measures to liberalize the economy and allow a greater role for the
private sector. These policies, supported by the INF, were designed to: (a)
reduce government intervention in comuodity markets; (b) reduce government
consumption subsidies and restore producer incentives and public savings; and
(c) create a favorable environment for private (foreign and domestic) invest-
ment through tax concessions, the creation of an Investment Promotion Zone,
and the unification and depreciation of the exchange rate. Two important
characteristics of this policy reform package were: (a) periodic increases
in the domestic support price for paddy (to bring it into line with world
prices) that spurred a highly positive response from paddy producers; and
(b) a decline in the cost of selected subsidies and transfers from about 10
percent of CDP in 1977 to about 3 percent by 1981.
4.      At the same time, the Government began to implement an ambitious
public investment program centered on three major initiatives:
(a) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, the
largest multipurpose river basin development program ever undertaken in Sri
Lanka; (b) establishment of a 200-square mile free trade zone to attract



-2-
foreign investors located north of Colombo near the international airport;
and (c) institution of a massive housing and urban renewal program focusing
mainLy on the Colombo metropolitan region, including the construction of a
new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo. As the public investment
program gained momentum, its share in GDP jumped from 6 percent in 1977 to an
average of 13 percent in 1978/79 and a peak of 19 percent in 1980. The
public investment was financed in part by domestic resources (generated, in
turn, by a reduction in subsidies and transfers) and, in part, by high levels
of foreign aid.
5.      The initial result of both the policy reforms and increased level
of investment was an impressive jump in the GDP growth rate during 1977-80
to an annual average of 6.8 percent. The growth rate subseq'.ently declined
to a more sustainable 5.3 percent in 1980-83 and 5 percent :.n 1984-85.
Underlying the increased growth of output was the expansion of paddy
production, garment exports, construction, and tourist services. The growth
rate of paddy production averaged 5.7 percent a year during 1978-85 with the
result that rice imports declined sharply and averaged only 10 percent of
total rice consumption during that period compared to 33 percent during
1970-77. Manufactured garment exports increased from US$12 million in 1977
to an estimated US$300 million in 1985 and now account for 80 percent of
non-petroleum manufactured exports. Tourist arrivals increased from 150,000
in 1977 to 400,000 in 1982. Rowever, due to ethnic disturbances, arrivals
have declined since to 320,000 in 1983/84 and an estimated 260,000 in 1985.
6.      The rapid expansion in aggregate demand, lead by high levels of
public investment, resulted in serious financial imbalances affecting the
budget and the balance of payments. The massive public investment initiated
in 1977 led to increases in budgetary spending from 23 percent of CDP in
1977, to a record 43 percent in 1980. These high levels of spending,
however, were not accompanied by corresponding increases in fisLal revenues.
When the economy began to show serious signs of "overheating" in the early
1980s, the Covernment squeezed current spending by reducing subsidies and by
placing limits on already inadequate public sector saLaries and operation
and maintenance expenditures. But with severe limits on the extent to which
these expenditures could be curtailed, the Government was impelled to borrow
heavily to finance the deficits which varied between 10 and 17 percent of CDP
during 1981-85. During that period, 45 percent of the deficits were financed
by foreign aid, 10 percent were financed by foreign commercial borrowings and
45 percent by domestic borrowing.
7.      The high levels of of investment also spilled over into the balance
of payments. Between 1977 and 1980, import volumes grew at an average annual
rate of 19 percent, while imported investment goods increased from US$83
million to US$493 million, and intermediate goods and petroleum imports
tripled in current prices. As a result of this fairly broad-based expansion,
merchandise imports as a share of CDP increased from 23 percent in 1977 to 51
percent in 1980. Export volumes, however, expanded at a much lower rate (an
average annual growth rate of 5 percent between 1977 and 1980) as the decline



-3-
in tree crop export volumes offset the strong growth in garment exports from
firms established in the Investment Promotion Zone. Consequently, merchan-
dise exports as a share of GDP increased from 21 percent in 1977 to only 26
percent in 1980. These diverse trends in the volume of trade were accom-
panied by a 26 percent deterioration in the terms of trade over the same
period. Rapid growth in tourism receipts and private remittances from abroad
failed to offset this deterioration in the trade account, and the current
account balance deteriorated from a surplus equivalent to 2.4 percent of GDP
in 1977 to a record deficit equivalent to 19.8 percent of GDP in 1980.
Deficits in 1978 and 1979 were more than offset by ncreased net aid
disbursements, and Sri Lanka continued to add to international reserves.
But, in 1980 the situation changed, when the current account deficit rose to
$800 million. It was financed by concessional flows, use of reserves (which
declined by $220 million) and recourse to commercial borrowing.
8.      Realizing that a continuation of the 1980 trends would result in
serious financial instability, the Government initiated an adjustment program
in 1981. The measures agreed upon initially, in consultation with the IMF,
included tighter overall monetary policy, a substantial reduction in govern-
ment spending, and a gradual realignment of the exchange rate. The economy
began to respond positively by the end of 1981 (when the current account
deficit in the balance of payments declined to 13.7 percent of GDP and tCe
budgetary deficit to 15.5 percent), but in 1982 - a year in which there were
presidential elections and a referendum to extend the life of Parliament -
the political resolve to continue to apply the needed policy mix weakened.
As a result, both the external and internal deficits increased in 1982 (to
15.3 percent and 17.3 percent, respectively) and the GDP growth rate declined
to 5.1 percent. Although policy measures did contribute to the decline in
the current account deficit of the balance of payments in 1983 and 1984 (12.4
percent of CDP in 1983 and 3.7 percent in 1984), the primary factor was the
improvement in the terms of trade as a result of higher tea prices. With the
subsequent decline in the price of tea, the terms of trade deteriorated in
1985 and the current account deficit of the balance of payments increased to
8 percent of GDP. Furthermore, on account of lower receipts from taxes on
exported tea and higher defense expenditures, the overall budget deficit
increased from 10 percent of GDP in 1984 to 11 percent in 1985. Because the
price of tea declined in the second half of 1985, however, its effects on the
budget will mostly be felt in 1986 when the fiscal deficit may turn out to be
much higher.
9.      Achieving a more viable internal and external financial position are
now two prime policy objectives for Sri Lanka. To improve the external
position, one of the foremost requirements of government policy will be to
restructure the economy towards exports rather than producing for the very
limited domestic market. With the exception of garments, for which Sri Lanka
has a particularly strong comparative advantage, exports have performed
poorly. A major focal point for improving export performance is the tree
crop sector, which, as a result of more than a decade of neglect, has
experienced a stagnant level of production. This trend must be reversed.



-4-
To promote export activities, a more neutral incentive framework is needed,
including a foreign exchange policy that would permit the full diversity of
Sri Lanka's comparative advantage to develop.
10.     The Government has recently indicated its determination to pursue
reforms in this sector. In 1985, it reduced the overall tax burden on tree
crops. This reduction, in combination with the management/incentive reform
package for state-owned plantations implemented in early 1984, has improved
incentives for producers throughout this traditionally overtaxed subsector.
The Government has also introduced tariff changes, based on recommendations
made in the final report of the Presidential Tariff Commission on trade
taxes, aimed at reducing the overall tariff level and the variance of effec-
tive protection among sectors.
11.     The comparatively high levels of social welfare expenditures which
the population has long enjoyed and which cannot easily be reduced, together
with sharply increased defense expenditures, means that the Government must
renew its efforts to improve domestic resource mobilization -- especially in
the public sector -- to pay for these outlays. Improving the domestic finan-
cial situation will require broadening the tax base thus increasing tax
revenues and reducing unproductive government expenditures. A focal point of
these measures will have to be the public sector enterprises, which account
for 40 percent of the value added in the non-petroleum manufacturing sector,
but are a heavy burden on the budget because of high protection from external
competition, administered prices for their products, their monopolistic or
quasi-monopolistic position, and the inefficient use of resources. They will
have to improve their management and reduce the support they obtain from the
budget.
12.     Throughout the entire 1978-85 period, the  response of the interna-
tional aid community to the Government's development efforts has been
enthusiastic. Project aid was stepped up, particularly for the Accelerated
Mahaweli Program.  The overall level of aid comitments per year increased
from US$250 million in 1977 to a record US$800 million in 1981, equivalent to
US$55 per capita. Disbursements grew much more slowly so that the aid
pipeline rapidly expanded to .ound US$1.63 billion by the end of 1981.
Because implementation and domestic financial constraints required cuts in
public capital spending after 1981, aid commitments declined to US$500 mil-
lion in 1982, US$350 million in 1983, and US$460 million in 1984, halting
further increases in the pipeline. Aid disbursements have increased
steadily, from US$200 million in 1977 to US$550 million in 1984. Continued
high levels of aid will depend upon donors' willingness to finance a sizeable
portion of local costs, provide supplementary financing for ongoing projects,
where needed, and to increase non-project aid. Local cost financing in
support of Sri Lanka's resource mobilization efforts will not only provide
valuable relief from budgetary pressures, but will also supplement foreign
exchange resources needed to support the balance of payments.



-5-
13.     At the end of 1985, the external public debt outstanding and dis-
bursed stood at an estimated US$2.7 billion, about 40 percent of GDP.
Although over 70 percent of this debt is on concessional terms, the increased
commercial financing resorted to in 1981 and 1982 contributed to the increase
in the debt service payments (excluding IMF charges and repurchases) between
1982 and 1985, at which time the debt service ratio had risen to 15 percent.
Assuming that the Government's efforts to contain the budget deficit and to
implement policy measures designed to stimulate exports and efficient import
substitution activities are successful, the current account deficit in the
balance of payments should decline to approximately 7 percent of GDP toward
the end of the decade, and the debt service ratio, after temporarily rising
to almost 19 percent because of existing debt repayment commitments, should
drop to 15 percent in 1990. Nonetheless, the Government will need to monitor
carefully the level and terms of external borrowing to ensure that the
country maintains a satisfactory external payments position.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the World
Bank has approved 12 loans totaling US$183.7 million (net of cancellations)
and 38 credits totaling US$753.2 million (net of cancellations) in support of
47 projects. About 53 percent of World Bank assistance has been for agricul-
ture (irrigation, tree crops, and rural and dairy development), 17 percent
for power, 10 percent for transportation, and the remainder of 20 percent
among development finance company operations, a program credit (involving the
import of raw materials for industry), water supply, construction industry
training, and telecommunications. Eight loans and 16 credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of World Bank Group opera-
tions as of March 31, 1986.
15.     In Sri Lanka, the IFC has a total investment of US$2.13 million
equivalent in equity and US$18.69 million equivalent in loans as of March 31,
1986.  Investments have been made so far in two textiles industries, one
polypropylene bag industry, one equipment-leasing company, one hotel, and two
IFC lines of credit, one of which has been extended to the government-owned
Bank of Ceylon for term loans to medium-sized industries.
16.     A central element of the World Bank Group's current strategy in
Sri Lanka is the achievement of a more sustainable balance-of-payments posi-
tion in the medium term through export promotion and import substitution in
viable economic activities. The Bank Group's macroeconomic and sectoral
analyses of the Sri Lankan economy indicate that achieving and maintaining
external equilibrium in the context of a growing economy require major policy
changes in several areas: investment priorities should be assessed more
carefully than in the past; the system of economic incentives should become
more consistent; the role of the public sector in manufacturing activities
should be limited to clearly established priority areas; and cost recovery



-6-
should be seen as complementary to, rather than conflicting with, greater
equity in distribution.
17.     Within the above framework, the Bank's lending program has been
concentrating resources on directly productive sectors, such as agriculture
and industry, and in support of energy and transport infrastructure. Within
agriculture, Bank Group strategy had given until recently the highest
priority to the expansion of paddy production and to rehabilitation of the
vital tree crops subsector. Regarding tree crops, the objective has been to
channel resources into an activity in which Sri Lanka has a comparative
advantage. While this objective will retain its importance, the probable
attainment of self-sufficiency in rice will allow the lending program to
support in the future programs aimed at expanding the production of other
important agricultural products for local consumption and, possibly, local
processing for exports.
18.     The World Bank has also provided financing for a broad range of
large-, medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the
private sector, through support of industrial development finance
institutions. Future lending in the sector would continue this support,
focusing on firms with export potential. It would also capitalize on the
conclusions of technical assistance financed through past operations to
provide support for improvement in trade and incentive policies, and for
increasing the efficiency of public enterprises.
19.     The Government's priority to rehabilitate rundown infrastructure and
expand the capacity of existing capital stock by high priority new invest-
ments is well placed and necessary in order to support expanded economic
activity, particularly in the private sector. Major elements of the lending
program would be directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy
and at easing transport bottlenecks. The World Bank has provided financing
to a number of power projects for generation, transmission and distribution.
The thrust of future operations would be decided on the basis of a comprehen-
sive assessment of investment needs inf all three areas. However, given that
the majority of high yielding sources of energy in Sri Lanka have been util-
ized already, it is envisaged that the future program would accord relative
priority to energy conservation rather than generation, through both required
investments and policy measures. The old and inefficient power distribution
system would be rehabilitated to reduce system losses; small but significant
improvements in energy conservation would be undertaken in large energy
consuming industrial/commercial units; and a study is underway to recommend
measures to improve energy efficiency in the transport sector, a large con-
sumer of commercial energy in Sri Lanka.  Support to the transport sector
would continue with rehabilitation and upgrading of the road network,
institutionalizing proper maintenance methods and improving sectoral planning
of policies and programs.
20.     Institutional capabilities, at both the p'anning and implementation
levels, have been strained by the recent rapid expansion of public



-7-
investment. Continuing emphasis would be placed on project components sup-
porting institution building, human resource development, business and
industrial management, and public administration.
21.     The World Bank's development of a coherent lending program for Sri
Lanka, and its continuous dialogue regarding the specific elements of the
program and policies necessary for increasing the program's effectiveness,
have been accompanied by firm support for a substantial transfer of resources
to Sri Lanka. The main grounds for this support have been the need to offset
the deterioration in the world trade environment; the achievement of a high
and sustained growth rate; and the tightness of the Government's budgetary
situation as increased operational and maintenance requirements make demands
on domestic resources.
22.     The World Bank Group, as of the end of 1984, accounted for 15.2
percent (IBRD, 2.3 percent; IDA, 12.9 percent) of Sri Lanka's total debt
outstanding and disbursed, and 5.0 percent of debt service on medium- and
long-term debt. The projected World Bank Group's share in total existing
external debt outstanding and disbursed will increase to 18.3 percent (with
IBRD's share declining to 1.9 percent) and its share in debt service will
increase to about 5.4 percent, by the end of 1986.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
Industrial Structure and Performance
23.     Sri Lanka has a limited industrial base, with the manufacturing
sector accounting for about 14 percent of GDP. The structure of the sector
has remained relatively unchanged over the past decade. The public sector
currently accounts for about 40 percent of value added in manufacturing. It
consists of 20 medium-to-large size corporations under the control of the
Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs (MISA) and about 50 corpora-
tions supervised by other ministries. These corporations dominate key
subsectors, such as cement, chemicals, ceramics, light engineering, textiles
and wood products, with the Petroleum Corporation being by far the most
important producer. The private sector consists of about 30,000 small- and
medium-scale units concentrated in food processing, chemicals, rubber and
plastic products, tobacco, textiles and garment exports. These account for
about 90 percent of industrial workers and about 60 percent of value added.
24.     Government policy has had a significant impact on industrial
performance. Nationalization of a large part of the sector and tight invest-
ment and import controls in the early 1970s limited output growth to an
annual rate of 2.9 percent. Liberalization of trade and industrial policies
in 1977 and growing commitment to the private sector as a basis for
industrial development contributed to an industrial growth rate of about 8
percent in 1978. However, after this initial improvement, growth slowed to



-8-
an annual average real rate of 4.6 percent in 1979, and manufactured exports
excluding garments, which account for about 35 percent of all exports, grew
at an annual rate of only 2 percent during this period. Private sector
garment, textile and leather production continued to be strong contributors
throughout this perioa, with the output value increasing from US$13 million
in 1977 to US$296 million in 1984.
Industrial Sector Issues and Policies
25.     The Government elected in 1977 stated clearly its commitment to the
liberalization of trade and industrial policies acd the role of a mixed
economy in which the private sector would be the engine of growth, while the
public sector would promote growth by means of appropriate policies, and by
investment in selected strategic or essential industries. Trade and
industrial policy reform initiated in 1978, and subsequent government
announcements, have emphasized the need to rationalize the tariff structure,
remove distortions from industrial and export incentives to foster the growth
in non-traditional exports, and improve the efficiency of public enterprises
in the manufacturing sector through rehabilitation and productivity improve-
ment programs or through privatization.
26.     In 1982, the Government embarked on a comprehensive program of trade
and industrial reform to address these issues. A phased program of tariff
reform was to be introduced, incentive structures revised, and firm level
rehabilitation programs for public corporations developed. In January 1985,
on the basis of recommendations made by the Interim Tariff Commission (ITC),
the Government implemented the first phase of tariff reform, substantially
reducing most tariffs and adjusting tariff levels on about 350 product groups
with excessive or negative protection within a range of 50-150 percent, with
most tariffs now in the range of 60-70 percent. While extensive, the reform
left unchanged a relatively small number of tariffs affecting a number of
product groups produced mainly by the public sector. Quantitative restric-
tions have not been a major feature of the protective structure of Sri Lanka.
While there are licensing requirements for some commodities, these require-
ments have been liberally applied and have not served as an impediment to
exports. More recently, the Government has announced the closure of several
public sector corporations and the sale of a number of manufacturing
enterprises nationalized during the 1970s. These actions have been accom-
panied by the introduction of systematic corporate planning and the upgrading
of management information systems in a few public corporations. Furthermore,
ongoing action programs in the Ministries of Finance and Industry are focus-
ing on firm-level technical rehabilitation for several public corporations,
including tnose that are to be rehabilitated prior to privatization through
divestment. On the other hand, the Government has not yet formulated an
expLicit industrial strategy, nor has it settled upon a comprehensive set of
industrial production and export incentives. Various government entities and
commissions are currently working on these questions. Among them, an
Industrial Policy Commission (IPC) has been appointed to prepare an
integrated industrial strategy statement (para. 42).



-9-
27.     Taking progress achieved so far as the starting point, future
industrial development would depend in large part upon establishing an offec-
tive incentive system that encourages industrial investment and exports. An
integral part of this system should be a rationalized tariff structure.
Although significant adjustments have been made to tariffs, there is a need
to extend the reforms to the groups excluded thus far in order to preserve
the consistency of ITC's reform proposals (para. 26), and at the same time
reduce further the overall level of protection and limit the variance in
effective protection to a narrower range. To implement these changes there
is a need to update earlier effective protection studies, carry out impact
studies on the first round of tariff reform, establish appropriate review
procedures and institutionalize the process of tariff review. The variety of
incentives presently in place appear insufficient to foster sustained
industrial sector growth particularly for manufactured exports. Therefore,
the working groups currently analyzing these questions should be expected to
propose significant changes in the existing incentive structure. Further,
until recently the effectiveness of existing incentives had been diminishing
because of the almost continuous appreciation of the rupee. Finally, in the
area of public enterprise efficiency, the recent closures/proposed sales of
small public enterprise units can be expected to have little real impact in
reducing the burden on the public budget given that the major loss-making
public sector corporations are not touched by these measures. Further
divestment of enterprises which are not strategically important should be
considered. Even more important, manufacturing enterprises that the
Government decides to retain control of should be given greater autonomy in
decision-making, and at the same time they should be directed to operate,
more than at present, on the basis of economic efficiency criteria.
Efficiency improvements in the public sector, and accelerated investment to
support increased growth in the private sector, would need to be facilitated
by the availability of comprehensive industrial financing from both bank and
non-bank sources.
Structure of the Financial System
28.     Since 1977, the financial system serving the needs of industry has
expanded significantly, from 9 institutions to over 70, consisting of nation-
alized and foreign commercial banks, a stock exchange and a range of special-
ized financial institutions, including two development finance institutions
(DFIs) -- the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and the
National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB). The Central Bank of Ceylon
(CBC) regulates and directs the system in line with overall policies set by
the Government. The CBC monitors and coordinates the activities of the
commercial banks while the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP) monitors
the operations of the DFIs. The two government-owned commercial banks, the
People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon, dominate the commercial banking system
accounting for approximately 75 percent of deposits. The commercial banks
(public and private) are involved primarily in short-term lending with about
50 percent of lending going to commerce and 25 percent to industry. The



-10-
non-bank institutions involved in providing financial services to the
industrial sector include finance companies, leasing companies and two mer-
chant banks. The merchant banks have been less active mainly due to the slow
development of the securities markets. However, because of the tax
advantages of leasing, finance and leasing companies have developed rapidly;
presently more than 50 finance companies offer hire-purchase finance. Six
leasing companies, including Lanka Orient Leasing in which IFC has a
shareholding, also provide term financing. These institutions have grown
rapidly by offering high interest rates on deposits and by lending for con-
sumer goods and transport equipment rather than for industrial plant.
The Development Finance Institutions
29.     Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon.  While a large part of
financing for industry is provided by the commercial banks, DFCC and NDB
provide the bulk of long-term foreign exchange requirements. Since 1955,
DFCC has assisted 500 private sector companies with Rs 1.1 billion of
funding, with 91 percent of this amount in medium- and long-term loans and 9
percent in equity investments. Borrowings from CBC, IDA and ADB supplied 52
percent of these funds; internal generation of funds, 24 percent;
collections, 17 percent; and share issues, 7 percent. DFCC's capital cur-
rently amounts to Rs 100 million (abotLt US$4 million). Furty-four percent of
this is held by the two government-owned commercial banks, 35 percent by
foreign investors, and 21 percent by private corporations and individuals.
Major areas of investment have been the hotel, chemicals, rubber products,
and textile and garment subsectors. Initially, DFCC's operations were
focussed on medium-scale private investment, but recently DFCC has become
significantly involved in small-scale industry financing. Although vigorous
in project identification and promotion, DFCC has remained a fairly small
institution concentrating on term lending operations. This approach is now
under review and DFCC is mounting a program to diversify its financial serv-
ices to enable it to better compete with the many new institutions emerging
in the financial system. DFCC's appraisal, end use and administrative sys-
tems and procedures (including procurement and disbursement) are
satisfactory, but its financial viability has been affected by increasing
levels of non-performing loans in the portfolio, due partly to the impact of
the ethnic disturbances upon the large tourism elements (i.e., hotels) and
partly to the impact of quota restrictions upon garment manufactures.
Overall arrears have increased from Rs 37 million, or 8 percent of the port-
folio in FY83, to Rs 115 million, or 14 percent of the portfolio in FY85. To
address this issue, DFCC is implementing a detailed portfolio
restructuring/arrears collection program focusing on all projects in arrears
six months or more. The program has had beneficial effects on collections,
which had dropped to 60 percent in FY85 but have now improved to 73 percent.
The decline in collections also affected DFCC's profitability and return on
assets declined from 2.2 percent in FY80 to 2.0 percent in FY85; with the
impact of the collection recovery program are changes in the tax treatment of
provisions for bad debt, return on assets is expected to improve to 2.3
percent in FY86. Notwithstanding the fluctuating return on assets, DFCC's



debt equity and debt servicing ratios have been satisfactory, within limits
of 7:1 and 1:3, respectively. On the basis of the portfolio restructuring
program, product/service diversification and alternative sources of resource
mobilization, DFCC's performance is expected to improve with profits after
tax increasing by about 25 percent per annum and return on assets rising to
3.6 percent by 1991.
30.     National Development Bank.  NDB was established in 1979 to provide
medium- and long-term credit to private and public industries and mobilize
internal and external resources, including stimulation of capital markets.
NDB's authorized share capital is Rs 2 billion, of which Rs 600 million has
been paid up, with capital owned by the Government (67 percent), CBC (17
percent), the People's Bank (8 percent), and the Bank of Ceylon (8 percent).
Since its creation in 1979, NDB has provided Rs 1.8 billion in project
financing to about 200 large-scale enterprises and has also become a major
refinancing agency for a growing number of small and medium industry
operations. The sources of these funds have been borrowings from CBC, IDA
and ADB, 22 percent; internal generation of funds, 21 percent; collections,
18 percent; general funding, 7 percent; and NDB's paid-up capital, 32
percent. Investment funding has been concentrated in the metal industries,
hotel, industrial services and rubber products subsectors. NDB now acts as
the apex refinancing institution for the Government's small-scale industry
operations, providing refinance facilities, training and institutional
support. Given the Liberalization of the financial system, NDB is also
developing diversification programs to expand its service base. As a newer
organization with fewer investments in the hotel and garment sectors, NDB has
not been affected as much by problems in collection. Arrears are presently
Rs 118 million, or 9 percent of the portfolio. To contain and reduce this
level, NDB has also implemented a portfolio restructuring program. With an
increasing proportion of income coming from lending operations, NDB's return
on assets has declined from 12.0 percent in FY80 to 6 percent in FY85, a
level which is expected to be maintained. NDB's debt equity (0.7:1) and debt
service coverage ratio (3.4:1) provide adequate coverage for any future
downturn in operations.
Capital Market
31.     The market for shares and other securities in Sri Lanka is young, and
stocks and debentures have not been significant sources of finance for
industry. Development of the market has been hampered on the supply side by
the relatively small number of medium and large companies in Sri Lanka and
the strong tradition of closely held ownership. On the demand side, interest
is low due to relatively high returns available on fixed interest deposits
and commercial activities. Steps are being taken by Government to stimulate
greater securities activity and the development of primary and secondary
markets in government and public sector debt, through the formation of an
equity fund, and the passing of securities legislation aimed at establishing
a formal stock exchange. With the securities legislation in place, incen-
tives would be provided by increasing the tax benefit for companies which go



-12-
public, reforming the system of underwriting, developing new investment and
unit trusts by DFCC and the merchant banks and issuing shares in profitable
public sector corporations.
Interest Rates
32.     The interest rate structure in Sri Lanka is characterized by deposit
rates that increase with maturity while lending rates fall with maturity.
Short-term lending rates are set at 18-20 percent and short-term deposit
rates at 10 percent, compared to long-term lending rates of 14 percent and
long-term (i.e., 12 months or more) deposit rates of 14 percent. As
presently structured, the system provides a clear incentive for banks to
favor short-term lending. Both short- and long-term interest rates, despite
a recent fall, are still significantly positive in real terms (inflation in
1985 was reported to be zero). They have remained high partly due to the
CBC's restrictive monetary policies and partly due to continued demands for
funding from the public sector. The National Savings Bank (NSB) is required
by law to hold 60 percent of its assets in government securities but, in
practice, all its assets are government securities and the government has
used NSB to borrow directly from the public to finance budgetary deficits.
The NSB term deposit rate is currently set by the Government at 13 percent,
with the result that the deposit rates of other financial institutions have
also been kept up. In recent discussions with the Association, the
Government has indicated that it intends to further reduce the NSB rate to
better reflect current and expected levels of inflation, reduce its subsidy
support to NSB, and instruct NSB to redirect its investments into non-
government securities, to the extent permitted by the Government's borrowing
requirements. Further reduction of the NSB deposit rate would almost cer-
tainly be followed by a new round of cuts in commercial bank deposit rates.
The interest rate structure and other issues are being addressed under the
aegis of a comprehensive review of the financial sector carried out by the
Gcvernment with the help of the IMF. The focus of the review is on measures
needed to rationalize the interest rate structure, improve credit allocation,
promote the capital market and improve the availability of development
finance.
Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
33.     From 1967 to 1977, the Bank Group directed its industrial development
operations through DFCC which was then the only institution in the financial
system with established appraisal and implementation capabilities for
processing project investment operations, and also the only institution
empowered to supply foreign exchange financing. During this period, the
World Bank made four loans and credits to Sri Lanka for industrial develop-
ment through the DFCC (Ln. 520-CE, Ln. 634-CE, Cr. 566-CE, Cr. 742-CE).
Conditionality of the loans was limited to relending rates and institution
building. The PPAR (SEC M77-894) for the two loans indicated that con-
siderable improvements had taken place within DFCC and that the projects
provided the Bank Group with a valuable insight into the workings of a small



-13-
DFC operation in an expanding, liberalized financial system. The draft PPAR
for the two credits indicates that while the resource transfer objective in
general was successfully met, the institution building objective was only
partially achieved. DFCC has been slow in responding to the increasingly
competitive environment created after 1977, by diversifying its sources of
funds, the mode of its operations and the areas of its lending. Continued
government support, demonstrated by its agreement to allow DFCC's forthcoming
debenture issue to qualify as part of the required reserves of commercial
banks, provides sufficient breathing space for DFCC to formulate a strategy
for the future, responsive to the challenges of the competitive environment
facing it. On the other hand, regarding the economic results of the resource
transfers, the PPARs for the two loans and the two credits indicate that,
with the exception of hotel projects, most subprojects funded from Bank Group
operations were economically and financially viable. The size of DFCC loans
averaged Rs 2.3 million (US$830,000), with new projects creating about 8,000
jobs at a job/cost ratio of US$5,400. The ex ante financial rates of return
for projects approved under the third and fourth operations ranged from 12
percent to 50 percent, with a weighted average return of 20 percent.
Internal economic rates of return ranged from 15 percent to 47 percent, with
a weighted average of 29 percent. The economic indicators for large-scale
projects financed under Cr. 742-CE show financially and economically viable
projects. Ex post economic returns for the 15 "A" subprojects show a range
of 12 percent to 40 percent, with a weighted average of 22 percent, which is
satisfactory.
34.     In 1978, an industrial sector mission identified a number of weak-
nesses in Sri Lanka's institutional and policy framework regarding the
industrial sector, analyzed the performance of the public industrial
enterprises and recommended measures to sustain the growth of small- and
medium-scale industry. Subsequently, three IDA credits were made to Sri
Lanka (Cr. 942-CE, Cr. 1182-CE, Cr. 1401-CE). Two were for small and medium
industries (SMI) and one was for general industrial development. Each was
used as a vehicle to develop the basis for an intensive discussion with the
Government on industrial policy and to push for implementation of key ele-
ments of a comprehensive trade and industrial policy reform program covering
tariff reform, industrial and export incentives and public sector efficiency.
The Bank's two SMI projects expanded the focus of industrial financing,
assisting the Government to establish NDB and introduce new financing
arrangements, using for the first time public and private commercial banks as
intermediaries for term financing in Sri Lanka. The projects also addressed
technical and marketing constraints in major light industrial subsectors,
supporting the promotion and extension services of the Export Development
Board (EDB) and the Industrial Development Board (IDB). The First Industrial
Development Project (IDP I) expanded the Association's involvement in trade
and industrial policy reform and continues the institutional upgrading
programs initiated under the SMI projects. Investment funding for private
sector projects was channeled through DFCC and NDB on a first come, first
served basis. As of December 31, 1985, IDP I was fully committed, about two
years ahead of schedule, with disbursements also well ahead of schedule.



-14-
Project funds were used to finance 117 subprojects, of which 97 (83 percent)
were medium-scale balancing, modernizing, rehabilitation and expansion (BMRE)
projects and 20 (17 percent) were for new operations. Sectoral distribution
covered agro-industry, ceramics, chemicals, glassware, garments, engineering,
printing and packaging and rubber products. In vaLue, SDRs 15 million (70
percent) was committed for private sector projects and SDRs 6.1 million (30
percent) for joint-venture subsidiary companies of public sector
corporations. While most of these projects are still under implementation,
analyses of the appraisal reports show satisfactory domestic resource cost
ratios, and estimated economic and financial rates of return in excess of 15
percent. These projects were also important vehicles for undertaking studies
and other work supporting industrial policy reform. An important feature of
the proposed project would be to assist in the formulation of a comprehensive
strategy for the next phase of Sri Lanka's industrial development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.     The proposed project was appraised in July 1985 as part of a joint
appraisal for parallel lines of credit from the Asian Development Bank and
the Association. Negotiations were held in Washington from March 31 -
April 3, 1986; and the Sri Lankan delegation was led by Mr. B. Mahadeva,
Director General, Planning, Ministry of Finance and Planning, and Chairman,
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon. Staff Appraisal Report
No. 6009-CE, dated April 21, 1986, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
36.     The objectives of the proposed Second Industrial Development Project
(IDP II) would be to: (a) meet industrial term lending requirements to
increase the output, employment, efficiency and exports of viable medium-
scale private industrial firms, and a limited number of public sector
manufacturing enterprises; (b) upgrade the institutinnal capability of the
DFIs; (c) sustain the progressive reform of tariffs by reinforcing the
process of utilizing effective protection analysis in the further
rationalization of tariffs and incentives; (d) address industrial and export
incentive issues to provide a better basis for fostering the expansion of
manufactured production and exports in line with Sri Lanka's comparative
advantage; and (e) complement the work on public enterprises (PEs) initiated
under IDP I, with work on restructuring of individual PEs as public or
private concerns, and introducing a signalling system to encourage better
operating and financial performance in all PEs.



-15-
Project Description
Industrial Development Credit
37.     About 120 medium- and large-scale private sector investment projects
are presently in the pipeline of the DFIs. It is expected that about 75
percent of the SDRs 15.7 million (US$18 million equivalent) subproject
financing component would be utilized for balancing, modernizing,
rehabilitating and expanding (BMRE) facilities in existing viable enterprises
and for funding new private sector investments in the DFIs' pipeline. The
remaining 25 percent would fund a limited number of PE subprojects designed
to restructure existing facilities to make them more efficient within the
context of the Government's overall program for the restructuring and
rehabilitation of the public manufacturing enterprises and tne improvement of
public sector efficiency. To ensure compliance with these objectives, all PE
subprojects would be subject to review by the Association prior to their
approval. Based on the composition of the DFIs' pipeline, major areas of
activity are expected to be agro-industries, light engineering, chemicals,
garments, rubber products, construction-related industries and industrial
service activities. All industrial sector-related subprojects with estimated
economic rates of return of at least 15 percent would be eligible, except
those in the hotel sector where project applications would be reviewed on a
case-by-case basis. Appraisal reports for subprojects above the free limit
would also be required to include an environmental impact assessment based on
the Bank's guidelines.
Policy and Institutional Reform
38.     Interest Rate Review.  As noted earlier (para. 32), a number of
anomalies exist in the level and structure of interest rates. The IMF is
currently carrying out a detailed analysis of the financial sector to deter-
mine the measures needed to improve the domestic money market; regulate money
market liquidity; rationalize interest rates; remove subsidy elements;
improve credit allocation; and promote capital markets and the availability
of development finance. Based on the findings of the IMF's work and conse-
quent amendments to the Government's financial sector policies, agreement
would be reached between the Government and the Association on a mechanism
for determining overall term lending interest rates in Sri Lanka including
possible amendments to this project's relending terms. Interim relending
terms and conditions, until such agreement is reached, are described below in
paragraph 45.
39.     Upgrading of DFI Operations.  The project would enable the
Association to continue working with the Government and the DFIs to increase
further the efficiency of the flow of funds for industrial finance by
strengthening operational standards, improving management and accounting
information systems, and implementing revised operational strategies. The
project would support DFCC's implementation of a planned program of diver-
sification by developing its cash management, working capital and unit trust



-16-
operations, and by assisting with the restructuring of its portfolio to
increase its profitability and help ensure its long-term financial viability.
The operations of NDB would also be upgraded through introduction of general
banking and corporate restructuring activities and further development of
project promotion. Detailed action programs to improve the earning perfor-
mance of NDB's portfolio would be developed, together with a resource
mobilization/cost control program to maintain a satisfactory spread on
operations. The DFIs have submitted to the Association revised strategy
statements which analyze strategic choices and assess the possible effects of
each upon the organizational structure, resource mobilization requirements
and financial viability. These statements are supported by revised
projections, approved by the respective DFI boards, and reviewed by the
Association.
40.     Trade and Industrial Policy Reform.  The Government has already
established a Permanent Tariff Commission with terms of reference and staff-
ing acceptable to the Association. Technical assistance would be provided to
the Permanent Tariff Commission to carry out impact studies of the first
round of tariff reductions, update effective protection rate estimates, and
develop a detailed 3-5 year action program for further tariff reforms
including, inter alia, those tariffs which were not changed as expected
during the first round of reforms (para. 42). The Government would also
continue the program of trade liberalization already under implementation by
eliminating the import licensing exemption ceiling of Rs 700,000. A third
component of the industrial strategy would be a phased action program for
reform of the export incentive structure, based on the findings of
Government's Special Committee on Export Incentives. Finally, the Government
would appoint, not later than October 31, 1986, suitably qualified and
experienced consultants to review the industrial investment incentive struc-
ture beyond the area of export incentives as a basis for a comprehensive
reform of industrial incentives and to help prepare a comprehensive
industrial strategy (para. 42).
41.     Improving Public Enterprise Efficiency.  Under the proposed project,
the ongoing action programs in MISA and MOFP, focusing on system and firm-
level technical rehabilitation, would be supplemented by the upgrading of
NDB's capabilities to develop rehabilitation/productivity programs to improve
the efficiency of selected public corporations, and by the introduction of a
signalling system to encourage better operating and financial performance in
all PEs. Additionally, there would be improvements in the capabilities of
NDB's associated equity financing company (Ceylon Development Investment
Corporation) to develop appropriate financing packages for public enterprises
or government-owned business undertakings which are to be rehabilitated prior
to privatization or divestment. The Government has submitted draft TORs,
draft contracts, and a listing of consulting firms to develop
rehabilitation/productivity improvement programs for five HISA corporations
(State Hardware Corporation, Sri Lanka Tyre, Ceylon Ceramics, Mineral Sands
and the National Paper Corporation), and would complete these reviews by
June 30, 1987.
IV



-1 7-
42.     Development of an Integrated Industrial Strategy.  The Government
has established an Industrial Policy Committee (IPC) to prepare an explicit
overall strategy for industrial development. The project would provide the
technical assistance needed to help the IPC develop the strategy and a
program of actions, linking the present situation and the objectives of the
Government by drawing on the work on tariff reform, incentive review,
fiscal/monetary policies and public enterprise efficiency (paras. 40-41),
as well as the findings of the IMF mission. Terms of reference for this
assistance have been agreed, and the first draft of a preliminary strategy
statement is currently under preparation. This draft would be further
elaborated by policy advisors who would overlap with the various ongoing
policy reviews and complete the study by February 1987. The Government would
consult with the Association on arrangements to implement the strategy and,
following agreement with the Association on its elements, would commence a
phased program of implementation by June 30, 1987.
Project Costs and Financing
43.     Total project costs of the 120 medium- and large-scale projects
presently in the pipeline of the DFIs are estimated to be about US$90
million, with about US$50 million (or 55 percent) in foreign exchange. This
figure would be increased by the cost of BMR financing for a limited number
of public sector units. Financing from the proposed IDA credit would provide
SDRs 15.7 million (US$18 million equivalent). ADB would provide US$20 mil-
lion through a parallel line of credit on comparable terms. The balance of
the foreign exchange requirement would be provided through suppliers' credits
and other bilateral funding. The DFIs would provide about 15 percent, or
US$14 million, in local currency. Sub-borrowers' contributions are expected
to be about 30 percent, or US$26 million equivalent. Total costs for the
policy and institutional reform component are estimated at US$4 million, of
which the DFIs and the Government would finance about US$2 million equivalent
in local currency. The proposed credit would provide a total of SDR 1.7
million (US$2 million equivalent) to finance technical assistance as follows:
US$1.0 million for DFI upgrading, and service diversification studies; US$0.3
million for public enterprise rehabilitation studies; US$0.25 million for
improving the MOFP's public enterprise monitoring/signalling system; US$0.25
million for assisting MOFP to proceed with trade and industrial policy
reform; and US$0.2 million for developing an integrated industrial strategy.
The ADB loan would finance US$0.2 million for staff training in DFCC.
44.     Utilization of Proceeds.  DFCC and NDB would be eligible to utilize
proceeds from the proposed credit subject to continued fulfillment of the
conditions of participation. These include: (a) adoption by the DFI boards
of a statement of strategy and operating policies acceptable to the
Association; (b) commencement of staff training programs; (c) implementation
of portfolio restructuring programs; (d) achievement of collection targets;
(e) achievement and maintenance of debt equity, debt servicing and return on
net worth and net asset conditions; (f) commencement of



-18-
strategy/diversification programs; and (g) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (SLA) with the Government, satisfactory to the Association. As a
condition of effectiveness for the credit, the Government would execute at
least one of the two subsidiary loan agreements with either DFCC or NDB,
whichever the case may be. Once the SLAs are executed, the DFIs would have
access to credit funds on a first come, first served basis. Credit proceeds
would be broken down into two separate tranches equivalent to about US$10
million each. To ensure the parallel and matching utilization of the
proceeds of the proposed credit and the ADB loan the same arrangement has
been adopted for the ADB loan. The availability of funds from the second
tranche of either the proposed credit or the ADB loan would be made upon the
full commitment of the first tranches from both projects. DFCC and NDB would
not be able to utilize more than 20 percent of their respective total commit-
ments under the project for financing projects in any single industrial
subsector except as the Association may otherwise agree.
45.     Relending Terms.  The initial relending rate to subborrowers by the
DFIs would be at 14 percent per annum. The rate would be reviewed annually,
on the basis of the mechanism to be agreed between the Government and the
Association. Commitment of funds from credit proceeds under the second
tranche (para. 44) would be also subject to agreement being reached on this
mechanism which would take account of (a) the trend in inflation, (b) the
need to ensure that rates are positive in real terms, (c) present borrowing
and lending rates, and (d) the adequacy of spreads for Government to cover
the foreign exchange and interest risk. Initially, the Government would
onlend the proceeds of the credit to DFCC and NDB at 9 percent and 10 percent
to give the DFIs spreads of 5 percent and 4 percent, respectively, sufficient
to cover administrative costs and risks of default on subloans approved under
the project. The higher spread to DFCC is justified as DFCC is subject to
corporate income tax of 44 percent, whereas NDB's income is tax free until
1990; also the average DFCC subloan size is expected to be lower, with resul-
tant higher administrative costs as a percentage of subloan size. The
Government would pay the standard commitment fee on the undisbursed amount of
the credit. The Government would pass the proceeds of the credit to the DFIs
in rupees and would bear the foreign exchange risk on repayments to the
Association. The Government, as a matter of policy, has borne the foreign
exchange risk on borrowings of this kind, because it believes that such risks
are difficult for small- and medium-sized firms to bear and create problems
of stability both for the enterprises and for the financial institutions.
The technical assistance funds of US$2 million would be provided on a grant
basis to the DFIs, MISA and MOFP.
46.     Amortization.  Since there is a need to augment the local currency
resources of the DFIs, particularly of DFCC which presently is not able to
mobilize resources from the local market, the repayment from the DFIs to the
Government would be based on a fixed amortization schedule of 18 years,
including five years of grace. The repayment periods of subborrowers to the
DFIs would not exceed 15 years, including 3 years of grace; most subloans are
expected to be for 7 to 10 years.



-19-
47.     Subloan Size, Free Limits and Review Criteria.  Project funds would
be available to both private and public sector enterprises. No specific
allocation3 would be made for either sector, although public sector projects
would be restricted to BHR operations and would be subject to the
Association's prior approval. Given the availability of funds under SMI II
(Cr. 1182-CE), subloans eligible for financing under the project would not be
eligible for financing under the proposed project. The maximum size for
eligible subloans would be Rs 41.5 million (approximately US$1.5 million).
For DFCC, all subloans above US$300,000 would be submitted to the Association
for prior review and approval; this limit is expected to result in about 30
percent of subprojects by number and 70 percent by amount receiving prior
Association review and approval. In the case of NDB, prior Association
review and approval would be required for all subloans above US$400,000. It
is estimated that 40 percent of NDB's subprojects by number and 70 percent by
amount would receive prior Association approval. All subproject applications
above US$300,000 submitted by DFCC and NDB would include calculations, based
on present World Bank guidelines, of the domestic resource cost ratio, and
economic and financial rates of return. The cut off level for acceptance of
subprojects would be an economic rate of return of at least 15 percent.
Appraisal reports for all subprojects above the free limit would be required
to provide an environmental impact assessment in accordance with the Bank's
environmental impact guidelines. To ensure rapid disbursement of credit
proceeds, commitments not utilized promptly (i.e., within 12 months) of
approval would be reviewed by the Association and the DFIs to determine
appropriate reallocation of funds to other eligible subprojects.
48.     Procurement.  Limited international bidding would be required for all
civil works or equipment procurement contracts above US$500,000. In these
cases, a general notice of procurement would be posted in the Development
Forum, and the DFIs sponsors would advise embassies and trade representatives
of Association-member countries of the proposed procurement. For contracts
below these levels, or where there are a limited number of suppliers, the
DFIs would require international shopping involving at least three
quotations. These procedures, given the relatively small size of the
contracts, are adequate to ensure competitive bids and conform to the
Association's standard practices for DFIs. The DFIs would be expected to
maintain records of the method of procurement and to monitor utilization of
subloans through regular supervision activities. Selection of consultants
would be made in accordance with Association guidelines on consultant
appointment.
49.     Disbursements.  The estimated disbursement period is eight years,
which reflects the profile of actual disbursements of Bank-wide DFC projects.
Disbursements by the Association wcld be made at 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials, against prior
approved Subprojects and 70 percent if procured locally, representing the
estimated foreign expenditures. Cost of civil works would be reimbursed at
70 percent of total expenditure. The withdrawal applications would be fully



-20-
documented except that payments under contracts for less than $20,000
equivalent, reimbursable at 70 percent, would be made against certified
statements of expenditure. Expenditures incurred more than 120 days prior to
receipt by the Association of the request for financing of a subproject,
would not be eligible.
Special Account
50.     In order to facilitate payments, a Special Account in an amount of
US$1.0 million equivalent, representing about four months of estimated
expenditures, would be opened by the Borrower in the Central Bank of Ceylon.
The Special Account would be replenished on a monthly basis upon receipt of
withdrawal applications supported by the required documentation, including a
statement of account for the Special Account by the Central Bank.
51.     Reporting, Accounting and Auditing.  The DFIs would be required to
submit quarterly progress reports, and audited financial statements and long
form audit reports within four months of the end of the fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
52.     Benefits.  The project would provide a basis for continuing discus-
sions with the Government and for future action on major policy issues. The
project would support further reform of the tariff structure and industrial
incentives which would encourage more efficient investment in the industrial
sector. The project also is expected to help improve performance of public
enterprises, support moves to increase autonomy, introduce performance
incentives, tackle firm-level problems and accelerate the process of
increased private sector involvement in ownership and management. The arran-
gements for tranching the credit, together with the work of the IMF mission
in March 1986, are also expected to lead to improvements in the structure and
level of interest rates and in other financial sector policies. Direct
benefits of the lending component would include US$40 million in additional
fixed and permanent working capital investment, with about US$35 million in
incremental annual production once projects become fully operational. Direct
employment creation and export volumes would depend on the composition of
subprojects presented by the DFIs. About 2,500 jobs would be created with
fixed assets per job of about US$13,500; in additional, productivity of
workers in existing enterprises would be increased through BMRE. Technical
assistance to the DFIs would enable them to diversify their operations and
compete more effectively with other institutions in the financial sector.
53.     Risks.  A risk of the lending component of the proposed project is
that an adequate number of eligible subprojects might not materialize, due to
the continuing ethnic disturbances and uncertainties in a recessionary
environment. The pipelines and projections of the DFIs indicate credit
demand well in excess of the amounts provided under the credit and the paral-
lel loan from ADB. Given the pipeline of projects with the DFis and applica-
tions already lodged with the Association, it is probable that full commit-



-21-
ment of the US$18.6 million Association subloan component would be achieved
in less than the three years envisaged under this project. There is a risk
also that these factors would impact significantly upon the DFIs' existing
portfolios, affecting their overall viability. Portfolio restructuring
programs are in place to address this possibility. Implementation of the
program of trade and industrial policy reform, including improving the
efficiency of the public enterprises, would require strong commitment by the
relevant ministries to replace existing policies and procedures and encourage
increased private participation ..n the development of the industrial sector.
While this commitment has been obtained, implementation could proceed slower
than anticipated, as many controls are deeply entrenched, and there would
continue to be varying views on the appropriate role of public enterprises.
The Association would continue to monitor developments closely in its
economic and sector work and project supervision.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
54.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
April 21, 1986



-22-                                               AN=  I
Page 1 of 6
*U~~~~~~~WI 1wukz Lvom tiiU:XUIIS
mu=                       tonT COS  Br 
1m      1t-fa        = 2"        >   "ZA 6 PAII              ASU a lp&tc
L.AL (20inuMO M. U)
TOTA.                                45.0        05.0        05.0
AUC LNL                              1UI         24.2        2.1.
muCAM   ()                           ..         ..         3.0                270.3                    1011.1
- einwm s cwm
(KILO U  OF OIL   LVA       )       13L20       152.0       13.0                85.7                     sb.
PO3M4&OKNUMM  (IAUUU)   93.0                  12531.0     15410.0
gum IISUI.aUUW CO   13)              17.9        21.9       23.0                n.3                       35.9
pOuI        t3 no 20       LU                              21.1
IPOIWU     (Pau                                 32.0
POFUA1II  usgNrlM1.
P33SQ. U.                         10          1.          123.0              113.3                     3.1.9
us sq im. "mu. 13                 573.9       517.0       512.ta             153.3                    1591*4
PO*O1ITU M A   1t   11 UlO 33 CZ)
0-14 1s                           42.0        41.1        25.2               N3=                      32.2
1544 13                           54.3        54.0         00.3              5".A                       57.7
5*33MD063                           3.0         2.0         4.3                4.2                       3.5
POPUIIAON utmim Ulm1 CI)
TOML                                2.5         2.4         1.0                2.0                       2.3
an"*                                4.7        4.3          2.9                4.1                      6.1
CESK 31123 mu CFO T30M)3             25.7        29.4        20.5               27.5                      20.1
canl INA=1 am2  (PSI TN303)          9.2          7.5         0.0               10.2                         4
GROWS tJOOlSrlOh thUZ                 2.4         2.2         1.0                1.71.
v*Mzx vuAImi
ACCDT00  AM0KL (730113              .          5.3        300.5
030(Z OF PAR&UD VOW)             ....                   5.0                49.4                       0.
1095 Of 10OD MO0. Ml CAPITA
(l969-71.1001                       93.0        102.0       144.0              110.0                     UG14.
"s CAFu  suwp  orL
cM.OtlS  CZ or UUOiIUEU)          90.         107.0       109.0              100.3                     115.7
3UlUt3U (03*1  P53L VAX)          '4.0        47.0         44.0              00.1                      00.3
or 301E MIMAL AND 3013            13.0        MO          O.0&               14.4                      1 *.1
CMiL  EA2  1-4 NAM 1A1Z              7.1         4.9         2.0                7.3                       7.1
Llt W=. AT 3131  (TLM)               02.0       03.0         03.3              60.3                       00.4
InfAN  MORT. amU cma TH011)         71.0        59.0        37.0               09.2                      04.9
ACSS        M TO   .. w&SIu (z101)
TOTAL                              M. 21.0                 32.0  id           4.2                      '4.0
113a*3   n.                                   44.0        05.0 r             77.2 15.T
-DIJ*1.                            .CU.        3t^4.0      16.0 1            34.0                       37.1
A=S  1T0 CXCITA ot01*s.AL
CZ OF 3114117*03)
TOTAL                              ..           4.0        0.0                 7.3                      50.
UR                                  ..        74.0         10.0              2.3                        52.9
3*AL                               ..         01.0        63.0 A              5.5                      44.7
POPWWAZM  mu   Htcom        *       90.Z      5420.0      7170.0 t           2313.0                    7751.7
tOP. CR1 .-1211 SZO.3             '170.0  .  20.0          10t .0                                      244.0
o. usR  OurAI. 8-
OM                               320.0       330.0       34.0 I            1039 UU Il
311                               120.0 I.   110.0       260.0 IL           219.1                      M5A.
WAL.                            1060.0  *    573.0       5400              *0 3.2                    3394.9
*SISSI    us mInIM  310              t.         s-.'         ..                524                       43.1
AV321   SUl OF ="UA33W
TOM
SOUaL                             5- S. *%      1.          .....
ORMAN                              4.1 ~        .
0*1                                S. z4 5      .3
AVnACE 30. O r WAh bO
TOTAL                              La lb       2.5
UiUBA                              2.1 7       2.7         ..
U3*                               L20 ON       2.5
FECBA OF 3331.23 WmN eL
TOM                                7.5         9.0         ..                                           .
g3um*                             35.9        3 ..S
3*.                                L.3         3.0



-23-                                                 ANNEX I
*LLLL..a.                                         Page 2  of 6
(1lU1T WCU38  ILSTVIAT1)
ilgib-    tol iL   = T"    "144PhavIic           ASIA 4 PACIvIC
.AJUSTSD £5IOLUII8?  AflOS
PtDEA3!s  TOZL.                    99.0        99.0      10.0                92.6                      100.1
PS                     100.0      10.4.       10G.0               105.5                  104.4
1 .90.0    96.0      u11*.0                79.3                      97.2
3IKUDA1hu rlYd.                   21.0        67.0        54.0               31.3                      47.
A,                      35.0        44.1       ;3.OL4                                        Sue. a
*  WLZ                  10.0        4.0       I7.0                st.9                      44.1
VOCALTIONAL (1 Cir 51KMM )            ..0.4                  0.4 la3.2                                    111.4
eamam                              31.0        24.0        1.O                36.0                      20.4
17.4              ~~~~22.3
FA85.  C*flfUaUD VW9                  8.A         1.0        7.3&               0.9                      141.1
am52    C3I1UJ1iu8#   PM             33.5        39.9       111.9              IDA.                      172.9
TV 111lW Xf 3IVIN P                   .. I..                  3.3               19.5                      S5.s
1151A15 ('kLT COMM
PUInOuIIulUATau                     34.0        45.9 o     iI                  23.7                      43.3
IWW  £ L A£IUUWI/CaflTA           2.9 .~.     7.6         4.3                4.03.
TOTAL     lawi  CTlNS)             3341.0      4166.0      9U.0
laws (cWT)                        22.10       23.1        23.2               33.2                      33' .6
AGSICULIURS (91115?)               34.0        35.0       34.0 410.                                     52.2
LEMiIMi (p5161W)                   14.0       14.0        14.0               M3e                       17.9
PAIUIIkTZOP ItAl1 C11C1?)
tOTAL                              34.3        23.5       3.6.                41.9                      35.9
MALI                               30.8       49.1   1     0.9               33.15                     30.
FlOULS                             14.3        16.3       17.6               29.1                      234.
&Cumi0   DulmENCI VA11                1.3         1.O        1.0                 1.0                      1.1
fmw oir Pmzv*u M
atczm    W2*                                2.            .                 3W3-
-1115? W1mg lIOhISlNO              25.4 lb. 1.2
1    3 20  W UOWm                  32.1       43.4           . *.                                      40.0
LOIIT 20101 HOOIJSUI                4.3 IS      7.3        ...                                           .4
U1C       D   _ inounios           13.7        19.         1.                  1-                      15.
camUM                              1.3 ..                            ..       33.9
IIU*L       O IO|                   2.1 1     *.   ..                ..      114                       3.1
361*X13.                           7 U..       ..          ..        ,        1.                      14.7
_low U0T SOM tm=
cam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 133.9
LSTAIAD VO.                                       ..         .. AUSOLUfl
90,11?  IN=U  L.19  (2)
1L                                 ..          ..          ..                 1.7                      37.5
MY A      mPLIAU
x o  t s
:4  *The  mp -Shwa_  for  jN*       jgCO    are r  _lat)eimmm1agt arL_temU.e  m.   averaga of cmatTl.
in5 On lUdS *gatg doda 66  L1bLty  t o ata   i lo an mifem
41t  Vale  etImIss Nete. "Data Lft 194   ref. te aW year heGia 1'5  aid 1941: 'Data for 11741 beem"
19I9 a   1971; asS data for -ant Ane at latma" ktimt 1951 ad £933.
fe  1977;  /d 136; ._/ 1%2;  /t 1973. IS I9M      19Q3I: .. 1978; LL 193l .
JUng, l9o3



ANNEX I
-24-                                             Page  3  of 6
DECNIIONS OF SOCI^1 INOWATOPS
Nam  Ahohugh d data ae daws tm somse generally judpd th mo authonauve and reinle. it *bould aba be nOewd that heey may nolt be amnuonmaly
comparble because   the lack of     e        d     ea  d by dilert countnm in cetctng the data. The data u. nonethele. mWS to
dscIbe arders of magntude. indicte utrns and chace  cwtan meajr difencms bew ee mnr.
me ma-a  grupe wam (t) the sameow  mity gw poa the suubj counwy and 121 a country gVoup wish somwbha higoer avg mncom tham the country
grap of sh se country dece tar "High Income Oil Expars grup wherei-Middle Income Nonh Afince nd Middle Eat- is chosen becuse oritronr
a-cuhtural ailIneI. In th etetm  roup dathe *avera  am papulatton weghd arthmetc _mn fer each itdicator and thown only when majoriy
dshe eountri m * prasp a da for tb t indtor. Sne the covae ocues mo  the indicaousn depends amhe *wavaslabibty afddau and is not unam.
cauton must bee tased maaing awenma at one indcaw to anotle These avngm manly useful a companng ah valie of on indAator Mta tne among
tbe emmry  And mm rd_ ll 
AREA (thousand sq.kman                                         Cnrd lth Rage (per thousnad-Number of live births in the year
Tea -Total surface am comprising land areat and inland water   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crud Det Rate (per tkisndD-Number or deaths in the year
Agivdcum'uL-Estimate of agricultural area usd temporarily or    per thousnd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 datL
pennanently for crops, pasures. market and kitchcn gardens or to  Grm Reprohcia Rate-Averge number of daughters a woman
lie farlow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data,                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she expeic
present age-specific fertility rtes; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS-GNP per capita estimates at curmnt          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prims cajculated by sante conversion method as World         y Pmilr-ACept  Amal (thessdrj-Annual num-
Bankc Arias (1981483 basis): 1983 data.                        ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commerial pnmary energy (coal and lignite.       Fsmly Puia_ -Uerf permet fmw d m-            )-The percen-
petroleum, natural gs and hydro- nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of marred women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any forn ofcontraception. Women
1982 data                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15 49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VrNAL STATISTICS                                groups.
tal PpUf c, MM - Yew (thauss zj-As of July 1:1960.1970.        FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Urkm  apdadn (pfcem o #omi)-Rato of  ftn t  tota 1mxAz ofiFeedPiwdacsida Aw Capit (1%96-71 - ISV)-i-ndex of per
Urio. hpuada (c eetd      ef tentio -Rttio of urb an to total  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urbatn areas may affect compar-  xldsaia  edadse  o  giutr.Fo  omdte
ability of data among countmes 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      icludes prmary fmeed ndtsesd eg sugarcane instead of suier)
rtp.D_i Aw rcd -o                                               which are edible mnd contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
ftprdatwn in year 7W00-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded): they comprise- ceieals root crops, pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy spaately. Starting with information on   vegetables fruits. nuts. sugacane and sugar beets livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock productc &ggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on nautional averate producer price weights; 196145. 1970. and
were projected at five-year inervals on the bais of generalized  1982 data
assumptions until the population became statonary.             hr Cpita Swp  ofCaioiesr  (Percent ofratenntn-Comput-
Statrary poptdmtion-s one in which age- and sex-specifc mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates havc not changed over a long period. whie agespecific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction ratc- 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude aninal fecd. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure ts also  food processing. and losses in distnbutton. Reqwrements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sze was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distrbution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                     waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pbpulatw0 Wornrrnurn-Is the tendency for population growth to  her Cap& Sepiy ofrheia (jrran. per 4A7i-Protein content of
continuc beyond the time that replacement-kved fertility has been  percapita net supply of food per day Net supply of rood is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countnes establisheu by USDA
unity. The momnentum of a population tn the year : is measured as  provide for miimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 gmns of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grinms
die year . given the assumpton that ferthty rmains at eplace-  should be anmal protest These standards are tower than those of
ment level from year r onwardL 1985 datam                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of aninal proton as an
PapfIslo. Deuiry                                               aveage for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkmr.-Mid-year population per squart kilometer 1200 hee-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tans) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                her Cpita hrnet SiWply Fon Anial ad Pire-Proten supply
Per sq.b. agricultural land-Computed as above for agncultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data                            1970 and 1977 data.
FPpbd,a Age Strucmwe (pmaer -Children t0- 14 vearsl. work-     Chl (ags 1-4) Death Rate (per thowsaadi-Number ofdeaths of
ing age (154-  years). and retired (65 years and ovcrl as percentage  children aged 1-4 year per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countres data dernved
ftp.iei aGrwrk Rat 'perceat-rotial-Annual growth rates or      from life tables; 1Q60. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year popuiation for 1950-60.1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
PAp_fi. Gewtb Ror (pweere_ml-wo-Annual growth rates            Life Expetany at lirt (yres-Number of year a newborn
of urban population for 195040. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live tf prevaling pattens of mortlity for all people



ANNEX I
-25-                                             Page 4  of 6
at the time or of its birth weu to stay thd   me throughout in life;  A-tAlloWAh  Lad - Prlmn  ory   uecdr-Total studnts en-
1960. 1970 and 1933 d                                         roled in pimury and secondary levels divided by numbes of
Aow Mfarw by La te r (pwrhuud-Number of infaft who dic         teachm in the corresponding levels.
before rching one year of ae per thousand live births in a pve
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 dam                                  CONSUMPTION
Accm to Si War (po   f #                 L                      t     C       uiu                   -Panger rs com-
ralm-Nunber of people (otaL uban and rua) with reason          p    moWr cs  atn  e  tan eight penons: excludes armbul-
to saf wat  supply (incude teated susfae watets or    Pani. hear es and militay  tehicosd.
untreatod but uncontamine   a  such a thst from protucted        _  h               _         _,ry vehid.
boreholes. spanGsa  sanitary wells) as pUciftaw of their rinpec  r  rado rodcst toenealpuic per thousAndof ypul o   ion;
dv. popUlaion  in an ura amt a public foutain or standpout    excrudes un-licen   receive. in eountries and in ypalrs when
blaed rOt mor ham  200 mters from a borne may be considernd
asbeing within reasonmWable a of that hous. to ro    r       regitrtion of radio wet was in elfect; data ror reet years may
reasonable agn  would imply that the hou fefornieambers of the  not be COMparale sinc most cotries aboisd licensing.
houtod do sot have to spend a diprponate part of the day       r ,vJr s(pr ImTV  Ieamvr far broadc
in L-schIFg the failfs water  nLvdL                            to enrl pblic pr thousan populasion excludes unLcnsed TV
inA(etching te faEur s water ndi                     r_;Dfwae in ct              ad nD yes when rqitamtion of TV se was
Ace= so Eurur INrpeeu f'Pere  of   uiilalnke-4it.tl when,    in eflect.
mf rare-Number of people (totaLL urban, and rural) srved by
exreta disposal a percentages of their imspective populations.  N9wIpeps C hi r   (pu ropedtlea)-Shows the aver-
Exceta disposal may include te colecton and disposal. with or  ax crulso  of daily enel interst newspaper. defied as a
widiout tratmnt, of human escrcta and waste-watcr by water-    periodical publication devoted pnnuafdy to Freog  ral news
borne systems or the us of pit privies and similar intaaltions.  It is considered to be -dayW if it appen at last four tunes a week.
alerbu p.' Plysicio-4bpulation divided by number of prac-      C s      Amum 4rr cA  per Capia pw Ye_-B s   on the
using physici  quaified from a medical school at university level.  numbr of tick  sold during ibe y   including admissions to
Pepulutu per Nursag hn.P-ro pulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobie units
practicing male and tmal gradwte nurses assistant nu3.         L      F
practicl nur  and nursing auxiliaies                           LABOR  FORCE
M  I ph  pw Hezp*d-aetvC nia, aW I              bpulation            r w F      e aduEm oyed        ay ecling pehous. ive-
(totL urban, and rral) divided by their respecutve number of  cluding armed fores and unmplyed but cmdtding houxwives.
hospital bed available in public and pvvae genal anid spiamc ied  students. etc.. covering population of al ags. Definitions in
hospital  d  mbabilit       centem Hostals am  sta            various countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at leat on physicia  Establishments proa-  mink (perceet-Fem ale labor force as percntage of totl labor
iding prinipally cwtodial car a  not induded. Rural hospiutaLs  force.
however indude health and medial centeg  not permanntdy staffed  Asdckw (prcuair-Labor forcm in farming forestry. hunting
by a phyican (but by a medicl assisnLt nure, midwife. etc.)   and fishing as pen[age of total labor fome; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patwint accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of Medical tuities                                             IadM7 (percfji-I-lbor fore in mining. construction. manu-
AAiid ast per        pta -Total number or admiions to or       tacturin andelecticitv.waerandgsas percenta oftollabor
discharg  from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
parWedeo NAm (pmenrtj-d.ua d. .adf_mfe-Prtipauon
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total male. and female labor forme
Aw-  JZlt of Hoasielw  (P u Pr hosdOWeuii-Wd. whaw.           as pcntags of total, male and female population of aa ags
nu.iwd-A houseold consists ofa group of inidividuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on IL0 s
lving quatrs and tbhir main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  partiipation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be induded in the household tor stastisl purpos.       long time trend. A few esturAtes are from national sourcs
Amirap Ivauuebr of Pee_u per Ro.ont-4rul. uruw aid mu-        Ecaaoauic D_pey Rara-Rati, of population under 15. and
Averagc number of persons per room in aU urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age populagion (ihose aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-penmanent structures and unoccupied pars                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pffcexmr  of DwriMp with ELetric ap     . urbx. -d rwJ-       Pecniq  of rord D&eabk lacuna (bur i cash a"nd   -
Conventional dwetlings with electricity i living quarte as petun-  Accruing to pere ntile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. mnd rural dwellinp respectively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4iased E_oiwwar RAn                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures or poverty
Rbuwy Shool - totd. mle andr fima-Gross total. male and       kvdes and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
temal enrollment of all ags at the primary levd as percentages of  Esnmated A^shia Poverty Incew Lord (USS per capsi-ur.wu
respectrve priry school-age populations. While many countries  and rrl-Absolute poverty incomne level is that income level
consider pinary school age to be 6-11 year others do not. The  below wbicb a mnimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differencs in country praces in the ages and duration of school  non-food requiremnts is not affordablc
ar raected in the ratios given. For somc counts with univemal  Esim.rd Redatv Povrt Incowa Leid (USS per cpital-orban
educatio  gro  enrollment may exceed 100 percent since sonre  aid rur-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the countrys sandard pnmary-school  averae per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rura! level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secaudwy schoo - fond. mae amd femak-Computed as above        living in urban a
secondary educaton requires at least tour years of approved pn-  Erniund P_puLre Belew Absare Poemry Iacene Laid (pr.-
mary insuion provides generL  vocatioonl. or teacher training  cE. -orba and wwu-- Pacemnt of population (urban and rural
insuctions far pupis usually of 12 to 17 ycars of ag correspond-  who are absolute poor7-
eno  coure are genrly excluded.
Vocatmie  Errobieni (pere  of msecoewky)-Vocational insttu-             Compartive Analysis and Data Division
tiorns iude tehical. industiaL or other programs which opermte        Economic Analysis and Protions Department
independently t as departnents of sondary infitutiOnS                                 June 1985



-26-
AMKEX I
Page 5 of 6
511 UfKA - 3Co  fc XIDICATORS
OUTPUT IN 1984 BY SECTOt                                    AlUUL MATN OF GROUS (Z. constant orice.)
vi lue *Addad
S million    S                     1970-77        1977-84       1970-84
Agriculture                     1,519      28.0                     2.0            4.0           3.0
Industry jL                     1,347     24.5                      2.1            5.3           3.9
Services                        2,ii    47.2                        L              1,1
Total  I                      5,432    100.0                     2.9             5.7           4.4
GROSS DOMESTIC MODUCT IN 1984
PA$ million 
GDP at Market Prices                             6,012       100.0
Investment                                       1,567        26.1
Groso National Savings                           1,347        22.4
Current Account Deficit                            220         3.7
Exports of Goods and NIP                         1,755        29.2
Imports of Goods and 3m5                         2,121        35.3
_Cetral GoverOent
(RIas illioai)    Z of GDP at Market Priceo
9m           m 17           19i4
Current Receipts S)                         33,342         17.2     18.9       21.8
Current tEpenditures j/                     27,795         18.3     18.6       18.2
Current Surplus                              5,54U         -1.1      0.3        3.6
Capital Expenditures ?J                     21,105          7.3     13.7       13.8
External Assistance                         12,934          3.2      8.0        8.5
J  Menufacturing, mining, and construction.
h/ GDP at factor cost.
Sj Includes capital revenue.
_J  Includes advance account.
zi Includes net leading.
South Asia Programs Departsent
February 5. 1986



ANNEX I
-27-                        Page 6 Of 6
M LAIM  - 2C0UoIC IJDICaT4S
IYl. CDIT. AND PRICES                    IM flU            1211     121      130.    11         1233     1233      128i
(end of period)                                                            (as Million)
Money and Quasi Money                   3.115    8,717    10,892   I5,058   19,160   24,447   30,510   37.257    43.427
Bank Credit to Public Sector            2,856    4,659     4,226    6,267   13.095   17,277   21,628   21,918    18,703
lank Credit to Private Dector           1,320    4,116     6,49    8,705   12,709   16,690   20.570   27,375    31,224
(Percentages or Index Nmbers)
Koney and Quai Honey as Z of CG          22.3     23.9      25.5      20.7     29.9      28.3     30.5     30.6      28.4
General Price Index (1970-100)          100.0    147.0   164.8       182.6    230.2    271.6   301.1   343.3        400.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                      .5.9     +1.2    +12.1      +10.8    +26.1    +18.0   .10.8    +14.0       +16.7
Sauk Credit to Public Sector            +10.4     .7.7      -9.3     .4B.3   +109.0    +31.9    +26.3      .0.4     -14.7
lank Credit to Private Sector            .0.6    .40.5    +56.7    t35.0      46.0    .31.3    .23.2   +33.1        14.1
UCLASC  O PAor M                                                      NR3CRD-1R   =TS  (1984)
(US$ million)
Tea                              620       42.0
RePorts of Goodsc  BS                  1,305    1,360    1,755        Rubber                           130        8.8
Imports of Good., mPS                  2.205    2.133    2,121        Coconut Products                  60        4.1
Resnurce Gap (deficit - -)              -900     -77?     -366        All Other Camodities             665       45.1
set Factor Income                        -9      -130     -131              TOTAL                    1,475      100.0
Net Transfera &  amittances              264      274       277
Dalance on Current Account             -734      -642     -220
EX NL  DUK!   Killion) A/
Direct Foreign Investmut                  63       37       36
get MUL. Loans                           403      292      311                                     December    Decemer
Disbursents                            472      373       410                                      1983        1984
Amortization                            69       81        99
Capital Grants                           162      171       154       Total Outstanding             3,678       3,738
Other Capital (not)                       79      143       24
Change in Reserves C. m increase)        -27       +1      +305       Total Outstanding
and Disbursed               2,214       2.420
Gross Reserves (end-year)                527      522       735
Net Reserves (end-year)                  -22      -21      254
Crude Oil and Petrolem  Products                                      DEBT SYlICE RATIO It (t)       17.7        14.2
Imports                                590      468      419
Exports                                158      114      129
133IDU  LIIDINII  September 30. 1985 (US$ Million)
RATE OF EXCNANI
IUDl    IDA
3nd 1979                Cd 19Z2
USS1.00 - Rs 15.45      US$1.00 - Be 21.32                            Outstanding and Disbursed         34.6    362.7
Rs 1.00 - USS 0.06      an 1.00 -D     0.05                           Undisbursed                       23.9   342.2
Ad  1980                Ind 1983                                      Outstanding, including
US1 .00 - Rs 18.00      USe$.OO - Is 25.00                              Undisbursed                     58.5    704.9
Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.06      Rs 1.00 - JSS 0.04
End 1981                Id 19
US$1.00 - Ra 20.55      U881.00 - Rs 26.28
Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.05      Is 1.00 - US6  0.04
ml  Repyable in foreign currencies and with a mturity over one year.
kh  Ratio of debt service On public and publicly guaranteed  U.T debt (including DW charges
and repurchases) to ezports of goods and services.
South Aaia Programs Department
February 5. 1986



-28-                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
TIM STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOWNS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986)
US$ million
Loan or                                                                      Amount
Credit                                                               (net of cancellations)
No.       Year   Borrower       Purpose                           Sank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and sixteen credits fully disbursed                     72.9  133.2
818       1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehibilitation (Tea)                 21.0      5.1
891       1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                   20.0      7.0
931       1979  Sri Lanka  Agricul'tural Eztension and
Adaptive Research                           15.5       9.0
979       1980  Sri Lanka Mahaveli Canga Technical Assistance              3.0      1.3
994       1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                       53.0     13.0
1017       1980  Sri Lanka  Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation              16.0      5.8
1020       1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                             30.0      0.7
1041       1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                            30.0     12.6
1048       1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                    19.5      8.4
1079 /a    1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                       33.5     13.5
1130 Ja    1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry                          13.5      3.6
-1160 7a    1981  Sri Lank   Village Irrigation Rehabilitation             30.0      18.1
1166 75    1981  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Cangs Development III                 90.0     40.6
1182 75    1982  Sri Lanka  SMI II                                         30.0     23.1
1210 75    1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                                  36.0     10.7
1240 7a    1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification                             20.0       9.0
2187       1982  Sri Lanka  Eighth Power                            36.7     -       2.6
1317 /a    1982  Sri Lanka  Forestry I                                      9.0      8.4
1363 7a    1983  Sri Lanka  Third Rural Development                        23.0     12.2
1401 7a    1983  Sri Lanka  Industrial Development Project                 25.0      B.1
1494 7l  lb 1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Canga Development IV                 30.0     30.0
2437 7T  -  1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Canga Development IV          12.1            12.1
1537 Ta    1985  Sri Lanka  Major Irrigation Rehabilitation                17.0     17.6
2517       1985  Sri Lanka  Second Roads                           24.0             21.1
1562 /a    1985  Sri Lanka  Fourth Tree Crops                              55.0     55.6
2576 7T  /b 1985  Sri Lanka  Dairy Development II                   38.0            38.0
TOTAL                                                              183.7  753. 2    387.2
of which has been repaid                                          52.1    6.2       -
Total now outstanding                                              131.6  747.0
Amount sold                               3.6
of which has been repaid                3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA _c                                  128.0  747.0
Total Undisbursed                                                   35.7  351.5    387.2
/a IDA 6th and 7th replenishment Credits, principal amounts and credits not
yet effective shown in. US dollars equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown
in the President's Reports and undisbursed amounts for effective credits shown
in US dollars equivalent at the rate of exchange for the SDR at March 31, 1986.
lb Not yet effective.
7T The original principal of credits under replenishments 1, 2 and 3 has been
increased by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the
devaluation of the US dollar in 1972 and 1973.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1986)
Year              Obligor                    Type of Business         Amount (US§ Million)
Loan   Equity  Total
1970         Pearl Teztile                   Textiles                  2.50   0.75    3.25
1978/80/83   The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon        Deveiopmmnt Banking         -     0.45    0.45
1978/81      Bank of Ceylon                  Development Banking       7.00    -       7.00
1979/81      Cyntez                          Textiles                  3.15   0.54    3.69
1979         Mikechris Industries            Polypropylene Bag         0.89   0.10      .99
1980184/85   LOLC                            Leasing                   3.00   0.34    3.34
1981         Taj Lanka Hotels                Hotel                    19.30    .70   20.00
Total Gross Comitments                               35.84   2.88   38.72
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, and Sales                         17.15    .75   17.90
Total Coomitments nov Held by IFC                     18.69   2.13   20.82



-30-
ANNEX III
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVEWPKENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project:       12 months
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:          Ministry of Finance
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to consider project:   April 6, 1985
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:             June 14, 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                 Marcb 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                      August 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The Government would execute at least one subsidiary loan agreement
with DFCC or MDB, as the case may be (para. 44).
Other Conditions
(a) The Government would appoint consultants, not later than
October 31, 1986, to assist in the formulation of an industrial
policy reform program (para. 40).
(b) The Government would complete by June 30, 1987, rehabilitation/
productivity improvement reviews in five public corporations
(para. 41).
(c) The Government would formulate, and co-ence implementation by
June 30, 1987, an industrial policy reform program (para. 42).



IBRD 17278
SRI LANKA
*    -5  w    INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JAFFNA
j     ,--,, *i    Nahanal Calpital
-'-   /  ' -: .-- -                    asDia  BOINd
-    MULLAT1VU                                        Provincial Boundarie
NORTH,ERN  _ 
VAVUNIYA
MANNAR        j
1--         ~~2    /
i'-- -      7- f-^    .
\ TRINCOMALEE
ANURADHAPURA                                  -
---n NORTH  CENTRAL   >r-
puu&ru PU-tTAL                              t'POLONNARUWA 
r                            j
NORTH                                 I
*                6~~~~~AThCALOA
WESTERN                                   1  ,
KURUNEGALA         J  MATALE         p       EASTEMN
-~ ~~ ,-  -r1                         -s 'o
__1   CENTRAL L                            -  i
KANDY 
GAMPAHA i                                - -                             AMPARAI
KEGALLA                          
)BADUu.A
A3      x       P v NUWARA
8 \                  _       fELA            M j   JONERAGALA
4-1
-_ K AL TARATNAPURA    /                              ',
I N D I A                          C-
INDIA                                    -,     - ~ALLEHAMBAMTOTA
. .   SOUTHERN
-   i                     N  IlII~~~~~~~ATARA   (7,,       
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~o
i_<~~~~~~~-  .._-AJ\,-'_--__



I
I



