Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1h 6o- Ct
Repot No. 6009-CE
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 21, 1986
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEN18
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee
Sri Lanka has a floating exchange rate. Since 1980 the annual average rate
has been:
1980 - US$1 = Rs. 16.5; 1981 - US$1 = Rs. 19.3;
1982 - US$1 = Rs. 20.8; 1983 - US$1 = Rs. 23.5; and
1984 - US$1 = Rs. 25.4.
As of December 31, 1984, US$1 = Rs. 26.3.
As of December 31, 1985, US$1 = Rs. 27.4.
The following rate is used in this report:
US$1          = Rs. 27.4
Rs. 1         = US$0.036
Rs. 1 Million = US$36,000



FOR OFFWLAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS
BOC     -       Bank of Ceylon
BTT     -       Business Turnover Tax
CBC     -       Central Bank of Ceylon
CBOC    -       Commercial Ban,,- of Ceylon
CDIC    -       Capital Development and Investment Corporation
DFCC    -       Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
DFI     -       Development Finance Institutions
EDB     -       Export Development Board
EPC     -       Effective Protection Coefficients
EPR     -       Effective Protection Rates
COBU    -       Government Owned Business Undertaking
GOSL            Government of Sri Lanka
IDP     -       Industrial Development Project
IPC     -       Industrial Policy Committee
ITC     -       Interim Tariff Commission
MISA    -       Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs
MOFP    -       Ministry of Finance and Planning
MTIP    -       Medium Term Investment Program
NDB     -       National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
14SB    -       National Savings Bank
PR      -       Public Enterprises
PED     -       Public Enterprise Division - MOFP
PTC     -       Permanent Tariff Commission
SMI     -       Small and Medium Industries
SIC     -       State Industrial Corporation
UNDP    -       United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Sri Lanka - January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks         - January 1 to December 31
NDB                      - January 1 to December 31
DFCC                     - April 1 to March 31
This document ha a stricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perormae
of their offici duties. ItB contents may not otherwise be discioed without World Bank authoriation.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PROJECT AND CREDIT SUMMARY .......       ....................  i-i
I. INDUSTRIAL SECTOR .............. ......
A. Economic Setting . ......... ...... 1
B. Industrial Structure and Performance ..............           2
C. Trade and Industrial Policy Issues ................           3
D. Investment Demand .................................           5
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR .......           ..... .......                  7
A. The Financial System ..........................,               7
B* Capital Market  a.......................... 
C. Interest Rates ...............                       .        9
III. THE BANK'S INDUSTRIAL LENDING STRATEGY ...............           10
A. Lending and Industrial Strategy         ...................  10
B. Impact of Past Operations .....      ...................     10
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS ......................  .....         14
A. Participating Financial Institutions ..............          14
B. Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon - DFCC ..          15
C. National Development Bank of Sri Lanka - NDB ......          20
V. THE PROJECT        ..........................................    24
A. Project Description and Objectives ...... ..........         24
B. Project Components        .......................... ...     25
C. Participating Intermediaries          ......................  26
D. Policy and Institutional Reform ...................          27
E. Costs and Financing Plan ..........................          30
F. Terms and Conditions *.............................          30
C. Administration                         ................ ...........  32
H. Benefits and Risks         ...............................   34
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS ..*        ..................................    35
This report was prepared by Mr. D. K. Groves and Ms. D. Berthelot following
an appraisal mission to Sri Lanka in June/July 1985. Messrs. P. V. Thuyet
and D. Keesing provided detaiLed input on trade and industrial policy. The
mission coordinated closely with an ADB mission preparing a parallel line of
credit. The report was updated and finalised by Mr. Groves following a
post-appraisal mission in November/December 1985.



-ii-
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Performance of Major State Industrial Corporations 1977 - 1984
2. Public Enterprise Efficiency Improvement - FY86 Action Program
3. Interest Rate Structure
4. DPCC Basic Data
S. NDB Basic Data
6. Estimate of Technical AssistAnce
7. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
8. Supporting Documents and Data Available in Project File



SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRiAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower         : Government- of Sri Lanka (GOSL).
Beneficiaries   : Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and
the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB) -
the Development Finance Institutions (DFIs).
Amount           : SDRs. 17.4 million (US$20.0 million equivalent).
Terms            : Standard.
Co-Financing    : The Asian Develcoment Bank (ADB) has provide.i US$20 million
through a parallel line of credit on terms and conditions
similar to those of the proposed Project.
Relending Terms : The Government would relend the project proceeds to DFCC
and N1DB for 18 years including a five year grace period at
an initial rate of 9% and 10 p.a. respectively, with the
relending rate subject to annual review and adjustment.
The DFIs would relend the proceeds at an initial rate of
14Z p.a. with a maximum repayment period of 15 years,
including a three-year grace period. The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by GOSL.
Project           The proposed project would finance the foreign exchange
Descrirtion:    cost of new and balancing, modernizing, rehabilitation and
expansion investments (BMRE) by private sector firms. Funds
also would be provided for the BMR of public enterprise units
needing to restructure their facilities to improve efficiency.
The project is designed to assist the Borrower to implement
reforms in the areas of trade policy, industrial incentives,
export promotion, public enterprise efficiency and indus-rial
finance and financial policy. The project would also provide
technical assistance to (a) the DFIs to assist them in improv-
ing their operating efficiency and diversifying the range of
their activities and funding sources; (b) Government to develop
a comprehensive performance signalling system covering all
major state industrial corporations (SICs) and rehabilitate
individual public sector enterprises; and (c) consolidate
existing studies and to develop a comprehensive industrial
strategy. The benefits arising from the project would be more
efficient investment in the industrial sector; improved perfor-
mance of public enterprises; and increased employment
opportunities. Although a risk exists that an adequate number
of eligible subprojects will not materialize, the project



-ii-
pipeline and projections indicate a credit demand well in
excess of the amount to be provided by the proposed credit.
There is also a risk that collection rates could deteriorate,
but the project provides for strengthening the appraisal and
supervision capabilities of the DFIs and for portfolio restruc-
turing to help minimize this risk. The other risk is that the
Government may not proceed with policy reform as rapidly as
expected; however Government has already taken a number of
important steps to improve industrial policy and the
Association would continue to monitor developmencs closely in
its economic and sector work and project supervision.
Estimated Costs:
Local             Foreign             Total
-----------…(US$ Million)          … -----…
Subproject Investment             40.0                50.0              90.0
Technical Assistance               2.0                 2.0               4.0
42.0               52.0               94.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                   20.0              20.0
ADB                                 -                 20.0               20.0
COSL                               1.0                 -                  1.0
DFIs                              20.5                 -                20.5
Suppliers Credits/Other Agencies   -                  12.0              12.0
Subborrowers (Equity/Debt)        20.5                -                 20.5
42.0               52.0               94.0
Disbursements:
Bank Group Fiscal Year     FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
-------------------(USS Million)---------------------
Annual                       3.0    3.0    4.0    5.0    2.0    1.5    1.0    0.5
Cumulative                   3.0    6.0   10.0   15.0   17.0   18.5   19.5   20.0
Z                             15     30     50      75     85   92.5   97.5    100
Economic Rate of Return (ERR): A minimum ERR of 15% would be required for all
subproject s.
Map                           : No. IBRD 17278



SRI LANOA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Economic Setting 1/
1.01    Real GDP in Sri Lanka grew by 2  Z p.a. during 1970-1976, due to a
combination of a policy framework unconducive to growth or efficiency, poor
weather conditions which affected agricultural growth adversely and the sharp
rise in the cost of fuel. In late 1977, the newly elected Government
initiated a liberalization strategy with the objective of increasing the
growth rate of production and employment, savings and investment and
exports. 2/ To achieve these objectives, the Government introduced policies
which included exchange rate unification and depreciation, import trade
liberalization, interest rate increases to encourage savings, full cost
pricing for most imported commodities and the establishment of a free trade
zone to attract export oriented foreign private investment. The economy
reacted vigorously to these changes at the beginning, with real GDP growth
accelerating to an average of 7.3X p.a. during 1977-1979, but it slowed down
to SX in 1981-1985. The main areas of growth have been agriculture,
services, garment exports and construction, all of which benefited from
liberalization, the increased level of investment and other incentives. With
ascistance from foreign donors, fixed investment has risen from about 15Z of
CDP in the early 1970s to 26Z in 1984.
1.02    Some of the policies which made these achievements possible, however,
also led to serious financial imbalances. For example, as the public invest-
ment program gained momentum, it grew beyond the country's resource avail-
abilities, thus contributing to unsustainable budgetary and balance of pay-
ments deficits and to undesirable levels of foreign commercial borrowing.
More importantly, the imbalances in the budget and in the balance of payments
were aggravated by an inadequate resource mobilizatior. effort by the public
sector and by the existence of an overall policy environment which was not
conducive to exports due to a lack of adjustment in the exchange rate and
1/ For a comprehensive analysis of the Sri Lankan economy, see Report
No. 5628-CE - Sri Lanka:  Recent Economic Developments and Policies for
Growth, dated May 14, 1985.
2/ This program of reform was introduced in agreement with the IMF in
support of a standby facility and subsequently, in January 1979, an
Extended Fund Facility.



-2-
high protection which created a bias toward import substitution. With sig-
nificant increases in public sector investment and a disappointing revenue
effort, the budget deficit increased from 11% of GDP in 1977 to 23% in 1980,
declining to 14% in 1983, fell temporarily to 10% in 1984 but increased to
11% in 1985. Due to this budgetary deficit, external developments and an
incentive structure biased against exports, the current account deficit
increased to 19.8% of GDP in 1980, declining to 12.4% in 1983 and to 3.7% in
1984, rising to 9% in 1985 After several years of precarious financial con-
ditions, 1984 saw a significant reduction both in the external and internal
deficits. While these achievements were partly the result of Government
policy, including the adoption of restrictive credit policies towards the
private sector, the introduction of new revenue raising measures and the
containment of public spending, the dominant factor in explaining these
developments was the growth in Government and export earnings from tea, which
contributed to an increase in net international reserves of $305 million in
1984. However, the sudden decline of tea prices in 1985 and the increasing
level of ethnic disturbances, with its consequent impact on budgetary
resources, underscores the concinued vulnerability of the Sri Lankan economy
and the need for diversification. In these circumstances particular atten-
tion will need to be given to the means to stimulate industrial growth and
exports.
B. Industrial Structure and Performance
1.03    Although Sri Lanka has a limited industrial base, the manufacturing
sector accounts for about 14% of GDP and 35% of exports. The structure of
the sector has remained relatively unchanged over the past decade. Large
enterprises, mainly public sector corporations, are concentrated in textiles,
sugar, cement, ceramics, chemicals, petroleum, steel and wood products.
Currently, the manufacturing sector consists of 20 medium- to large-scale
corporations under the control of the Ministry of Industries and Scientific
Affairs (MISA); about 50 corporations supervised by other Ministries; about
400 large-sca'.e registered private factories mainly in Colombo; 5,000 small
and medium registered private factories; and abeut 25,000 dispersed unregis-
tered small and cottage units concentrated in handicrafts and services. The
private sector eLploys 90% of industrial workers and accounts for about 60%
of manufactured value added.
1.04    Government policy has had a significant impact on industrial perfor-
mance. Liberalization of trade and industrial policies in 1977, the lifting
of foreign exchange restrictions and growing commitment to the private sector
as a basis for industrial development contributed to strong industrial growth
of about 8% p.a. in 1978. However, after this initial improvement, the rate
of real growth in industry slowed to an annual average real rate of 4.6% in
1979 - 1984. The appreciation of the exchange rate after 1978 adversely
affected the production of traded goods. Furthermore, although import
tariffs were maintained to provide significant levels of tariff protection
for manufacturers vis-a-vis other sectors, the growth opportunities created



-3-
by the inward looking policy were limited due to the small size of the local
market.  It would also appear, on the basis if rather weak statistical
information, that there have been wide variations in the performance of the
public and private sector enterprises. While overall growth in industrial
output from 1979 to 1984 increased by 4.6% per annum constant prices, output
of the public manufacturing enterprises essentially stagnated (Annex 1).
Private sector companies dominate production of food, beverages, tobacco,
chemicalst rubber and plastic products for the domestic market, and textiles
and garments for export which increased from US$13 million in 1977 to
US$296 million in 1984. Despite the growth of the private sector, the State
Industrial Corporations (SICs) remain important, accounting for about 50% of
industrial investment and contributing about 40% of value added in the non-
petroleum manufacturing sector.
C. Trade and Industrial Policy Issues
1.05    Tariff Reform.  In January 1985, on the basis of recommendations made
by the Interim Tariff Commission (ITC), GOSL implemented the first phase of a
significant program of tariff reform, reducing protection levels on a large
range of product groups (350) from rates as high as 600% to a range of 50% -
150%, with most tariffs now in the range of 60% - 70%. While extensive, the
tariff reforms in January 1985 left unchanged a relatively small number of
tariffs affecting items produced mainly by public sector enterprises. GOSL
also accepted the recommendations of the ITC that GOSL create a Permanent
Tar*ff Commission (PTC) to carry out impact studies of past and proposed
tariff changes, review appeals and further modify the tariff structure to
lower and provide a more uniform level of effective protection, reducing the
remaining import substitution bias. In recent discussions, GOSL has indi-
cated that further reforms would be made, including implementation of some of
the recommendations of the ITC relating to the product groups left out of the
first round of adjustments. Quantitative restrictions have not been a major
feature of the protective structure of Sri Lanka. While there are licensing
requirements for some commodities, these requirements have been liberally
applied and have not served as a major impediment to industrial development.
As a further liberalisation measure, GOSL has indicated that it proposes to
reduce the level of Business Turnover Tax on imports.
1.06    Export Incentives.  As part of its program of trade reform, GOSL has
made considerable efforts to provide incentives for export-oriented
industries. However, the range of incentives presently in place, including
accelerated depreciation, export financing and tax holidays appear insuffi-
cient to foster sustained growth, particularly for manufactured exports other
than garments. The effectiveness of these measures has been offset by the
almost continuous appreciation of the real value of the rupee since 1977,
which has resulted in a loss in overall price competitiveness of Sri Lankan
exports. With technical assistance provided by IDA, GOSL has reviewed the
level and structure of export incentives, and draft proposals for reform were
submitted to IDA for review in October 1985. The final report has been



-4-
submitted to COSL/EDB and it is hoped to implement agreed proposals in 1987
as part of the implementation of GOSL's integrated industrial strategy (para
5.16). Majr. proposals include a gradual depreciation of the exchange rate
to offset the appreciation in real terms which has occurred since 1977,
adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy, changes in duty drawbacks and
export financing. It is also proposed that tax incentives should apply to
investment for indirect exporters, accelerated depreciation should be allowed
with carry over of allowances until operations become profitable and that
Export Development Board (EDB) and other incentives be made available to all
exporters of non-traditional goods.
1.07    The need to address distortions and biases in the overall industrial
incentive structure has also been recognized by GOSL. Consultants will be
recruited to carry out the review of the existing structure and the findings
of the review will be incorporated into the comprehensive integrated
industrial strategy planned by GOSL (para 5.13).
1.08    Public Enterprise Efficiency.  Since 1977, the negative impact of
public manufacturing enterprises (PEs) on the industrial sector's contribu-
tion to CDP-has been a cause of concern. After considerable delay, GOSL has
recently taken a number of steps to improve the efficieucy of PEs and to
establish systems and procedures to monitor performance. As part of these
measures, GOSL has restricted PEs access to budget funds and has directed
them to the banking system to obtain financing on the basis of creditworthi-
ness and project viability. To establish this creditworthiness, the Ministry
of Finance and Planning (MOFP) and line Ministries, particularly the Ministry
of Industries and Scientific Affairs (MISA), are carrying out a review of the
asset and capital structure of 72 Public Enterprises (PEs) and Government
Owned Business Undertakings (GOBUs) to determine the level of infus'on neces-
sary to return their debt/equity structures to satisfactory levels. 1/ As of
December 31, 1985, proposals for restructuring 37 enterprises had been sub-
mitted to GOSL. Additionally, the legal status of private companies (COBUs)
taken over under the Business Undertakings (Acquisition) Act of 1971 is being
reviewed with a view to returning the units to their owners. Under manage-
ment contracts with the private sector, five large public sector textile
units are now operating profitably. GOSL is also using the National
Development Bank (NDB) to develop proposals for the restructuring/
rehabilitation of selected enterprises with an initial focus on the State
Hardware Corporation.
1.09    Programs developed by GOSL to address specific sectoral and firm
level weaknesses of major units within the MISA, with the ultimate objective
of providing GOSL with clear indications of units which could be privatizeG,
divested (particularly the private sector units nationalized in 1971) or
closed, are also being implemented slowly. This slow progress was due ini-
I/ Public enterprises are units created by GOSL, GOBUs are units national-
ized under the Business Acquisition Act 1971.



-.5-.
tially to MISA's inadequate commitment to reduce Ministerial controls over
the performance of public corporations, and a rapid turnover of key corpora-
tion chairmen. With the appointment of a new Minister in January 1985 and
the satisfactory rate of progress in implementing corporate planning in the
key MISA enterorises, prospects for a more rapid MISA implementation of
needed actions have improved. However, there is still considerable reluc-
tance on the part of MISA to carry out any significant rationalization.
Several major corporations (Cement, Steel, Chemicals and Petroleum) have been
transferred to other more relevant Ministries and the Fertilizer, Packaging
and Tobacco Products Corporations have been slated for closure.
Additionally, CGSL/MISA have advertised the sale of a number of GOBUs, and
also propose to divest the marginally profitable divisions of several
Corporations. Based on previously agreed programs, GOSL/MISA have prepared a
detailed 1986/1987 action program to improve public enterprise efficiency
(Anne% 2) which reflects the change in the MISA portfolio and focuses on the
implementation of specific measures to rationaLize operations and increase
corporate autonomy for the remaining MISA enterprises. COSL/MISA have also
agreed on the mechanics for the development of detailed restructuring/
productivity improvement programs for five corporations.
I.10    For non-MISA operations, action programs to strengthen the MOFP's
traditional function as the advisory arm to the Parliamentary Committee on
Public Enterprises (COPE), and to develop the financial management
capabilities of the Public Enterprise Division (PED) within the Ministry,
have been implemented in part, through (i) improved monitoring of PR
performance; (ii) participation of PED staff in training programs focused on
PH management and evaluation techniques; and (iii) provision of marketing
consultancy to PE corporations. To supplement these efforts, GOSL has
prepared a detailed program continuing these activities into 1986-1987. COSL
has also recognized the need to complement these steps with the development
of a system to monitor the performance of all public enterprises, and has
requested assistance from the Association to locate appropriately qualified
advisors and to provide initial hardware support to upgrade the data process-
ing capabilities of PED.
D. Investment Demand
1.11    Beginning in 1979, Sri Lanka allocated more than 25% of its annual
output to gross domestic investment. By 1980, the accelerated implementation
of the Mahaweli program increased the investment level to 34%. With comple-
tion of large segments of this program in 1984, the investment ratio dropped
to 26%. Of some concern is the fluctuation in private sector investment
which was expected to be a major source of growth for the economy. From a
high level of 12.6% of GDP in 1980, private investment has fallen to 9.7% of
GDP in 1984. Part of this decline reflects the uncertainty created by the
ethnic violence which escalated in July 1983, with both domestic and foreign
private investors cautious in making new commitments. In the medium term,
the annual real growth rate in manufacturing is expected to increase from the



-6-
3.5% p.a. achieved in the recent past to 4.8% during 1985-1989 and to rise to
5.7% in the next decade. While established exporting industries, par-
ticularly garments, are expected to continue to expand, a much improved
growth rate is expected in processing industries linked to tree crops and,
more importantly in the medium term, in non-traditional manufactured exports.
Against this background, GOSL's current Investment Program estimaces that the
share of private investment in GDP will increase from 9.7% (1984) to 13%
(1988). This increase, accompanied by a projected reduction of public
investment from 15X of GDP (1984) to 12% (1988), would reduce the investment/
CDP ratio from 26% in 1984 to 25% in 1988. GOSL has established a policy
that public investment will be directed primarily toward provision of
infrastructure to support private sector activities. Thus there is con-
siderable potential in Sri Lanka for substantial growth in private sector
industrial investment, if stimulated by improvements in trade and industrial
policies. This potential is evidenced by a healthy demand by the private
sector for industrial finance. As of March 31, 1986, the aggregate project
pipelines of the DFIs for private sector investment was about US$100 million.
A noticeable feature of the pipelines is the increasing proportion of loans
being requested for new and major expansion projects in food processing,
pharmaceuticals, chemicals, rubber products, and light engineering products.
1.12    The increasing investment demand is fostered by the existence of a
liberalized investment approval process. Prior to 1977 investment in manu-
facturing and other sectors was tightly controlled. However, in January
1978, the new Government abolished controls over most investment, estab-
lishing the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC) to promote foreign
investment in the Investment Promotion Zones (IPZ) located north of Colombo.
To facilitate project development (mainly of export oriented projects) the
GCEC was empowered to grant exemption from a variety of laws including those
applicable to taxes, custom duties and licensing procedures. To promote and
support private investment outside the IPZ, GOSL established two one stop
service centers; the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee (FIAC) and the
Local Investment Advisory Committee (LiAC). These units are organized to
provide advice to prospective investors on suitable areas for investment,
locate suitable collaborators and assist in overcoming any regulatory dif-
ficulties such as construction permits, utilities availability or necessary
compliance with water or waste disposal. No value limits have been set for
project approval which are based upon the financial viability of the project,
although major projects (US$10 million or more) involving large foreign
participation are reviewed by FIAC or LIAC. Overall, approval procedures are
satisfactory (4-6 weeks) with only a limited number of industries (e.g.,
plastic products, textiles, yarn and fabric production) presently subject to
clearance on the grounds of needed protection.



-7-
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. The Financial System
2.01    Prior to 1977, the institutional sources of credit for industry were:
four domestic commercial banks (CBs), the Development Finance Corporation of
Ceylon (DFCC) and four foreign commercial banks (FCBs). Traditionally,
private industry relied on self-financing for up to 80% of its fixed capital
needs and on commercial bank credit to finance working capital, with some
rollovers used for long term investment. Public sector industrial corpora-.
tions used budgetary allocations for up to 80% of their financial require-
ments. Commercial bank credit accounted for about 85% of all institutional
finance to private industry., DFCC was the only source of longterm equity and
loans, with a monopoly in foreign exchange lending to private industry.
Since 1977, a number of foreign commercial banks have entered the financial
system, NDB was established and leasing companies and a number of general
financing institutions have set up operations. The expanded system consists
of The National Savings Bank (NSB), two public and two private domestic
commercial banks, two industrial development banks, four regional agro-
industrial development banks, 21 foreign commercial banks, 24 foreign cur-
rency banking units, 50 finance companies providing leasing and hire purchase
facilities, three major specialized leasing companies and several provident
funds and insurance companies. There are six money brokers who operate in
the interbank/secondary market. In addition to the institutions monitored by
the Central Bank of Ceylon (CBC), there is an active unofficial market with
deposit and lending rates higher than official rates.
2.02    The two Government-owned commercial banks, the People's Bank and the
Bank of Ceylon, dominate the commercial bankir-g system accounting for
approximately 75% of deposits. The commercial banks are involved primarily
in short-term lending with about 50% of lending going to commerce and 25% to
industry. Most commercial bank resources come from deposits, with few
deposits of a maturity of 12 months or longer. The lending margins of the
commercial banks are relatively high (6X-8%). GOSL and CBC have continuously
stressed the need for the commercial banks to improve their efficiency while
giving preference to agriculture and other priority (and high-risk) sectors.
However, these efforts have not been entirely successful, on the one hand
because of inadequate debt recovery regulations and on the other the Banks'
reluctance to accept risks involved in lending to some high priority sectors.
A Government Commission has recently reviewed existing debt recovery regula-
tions and has recommended the establishment of (i) a separate Commercial
Credit Court with exclusive power to hear all cases instituted under the Debt
Recovery Act; (ii) a credit insurance fund; and (iii) revised administrative
procedures for debt processing. If accepted by GOSL, the changes proposed
will significantly improve credit discipline and increase the ability of
credit institutions to recover arrears on loans (paras 4.10 and 4.21).
2.03    The non-bank financial institutions involved in providing services to
the industrial sector include finance companies, leasing companies and two



-8-
merchant banks. The merchant banks have not been active mainly due to the
slow development of the securities markets. However, because of the tax
advantages of leasing, finance and leasing companies have developed rapidly;
presently more than 50 finance companies offer hire purchase finance. Six
leasing companies, including Lanka Orient Leasing in which 1FC has a share-
holding, also provide term financing. These institutions have grown rapidly
by offering high interest rates on deposits and lending for consumer goods
and transport equipment rather than for industrial plant.
B. Capital Market
2.04    The market for shares and other securities in Sri Lanka is
undeveloped and stocks and debentures have not been significant sources of
finance for industry. Although a small number of brokers make a market for
shares and about 300 companies are listed, most are closely held or dormant,
and trading volume is thin. Development of the market has been hampered on
the supply side by the relatively small number of medium and large companies
in Sri Lanka and the strong tradition of closely held ownership. On the
demand side, interest in investing in shares is low due to relatively high
returns available on fixed interest deposits and commercial activities.
Steps are being taken to revitalize the market. In addition to the formation
of an equity fund, thi Government has drawn up securities legislation aimed
at consolidating the operations of the two stock exchanges which have not
operated effectively.
2.05    Once the system of supervision proposed under the Securities Council
Act is in place, GOSL could stimulate greater securities activity and the
development of primary and secondary markets in Government and public sector
debt by increasing the tax incentive for companies to go public, reforming
the system of underwriting, developing new investment and unit trusts by DFCC
and the merchant banks and issuing shares in profitable public sector
corporations. This would comrlement the establishment under IDP I of the Sri
Lanka Capital Development and Investment Company (CDIC), by COSL, NDB and
other Sri Lankan financial institutions, including the state-owned commercial
banks to provide equity to new ventures, particularly joint ventures between
public corporations and private parties. The measures proposed by GOSL to
develop the capital market into a major source of industrial financing are a
step in the right direction, but more needs to be done. GOSL recognizes this
need, and under the IMF review, supported by the Bank, of the Financial
Sector (para 2.07) the role of the capital market in the financial sector
will be examined and a program for upgrading its activities developed.



-9-
C. Interest Rates
2.06    After high inflation of 16% in 1983, the rate of inflation declined
to 9% in 1984 and to OX in 1985, in response to a tighter monetary policy
and an appreciating currency. Projections for 1986-1990, which incorporate
increasing budget deficits to fund security measures, anticipate inflation to
increase to a range of 10%-12%. Against this background interest rates have
remained positive in real terms for some time; however, GOSL's interest rate
and refinancing policies have led to a situation where the structure and
level of interest rates are affected by a number of anomalies, including
(i) an interest rate structure with wide ranges in lending and deposit rates,
with some deposit rates exceeding lending rates; (ii) simultaneous inadequate
and excessive liquidity in different financial institutions; (iii) rigid
regulation of financial institutions side by side with an unregulated capital
market; and (iv) priority for Government resource mobilization over private
sector financing. Although term deposit and loan interest rates have
declined by an average of 3% to 18% - 20% since January 1985, interest rates
have remained high, partly due to the Central Bank of Ceylon's (CBC) restric-
tive monetary policies and partly due to a continued demand by GOSL for
funding through NSB to finance its budgetary deficit. Currently, the NSB
long-term deposit rate is 13% p.a., which has kept up the deposit rates of
other financial institutions (Annex 3). The attractiveness of NSB's interest
rate is enhanced by a 30% tax allowance on interest earnings by deposit
holders. By law, NSB is required to hold 60% of its assets in Government
securities. In practice, all its assets are Government securities and GOSL
has used NSB to borrow directly from the public to finance budgetary
deficits. To compete with NSB for deposits, commercial bank deposit rates
have also been kept high, with rates ranging from 10% to 14%. In turn, based
on the cost of intermediation and of the term funds, the lending rates of the
commercial banks for trade and working capital finance have been 18% to 20%.
In recent discussions with IDA, GOSL has indicated that it intends to:
reduce the NSB rate still further to better reflect current and expected
levels of inflation, redltce its subsidy support to NSB under which it funds
the operations of NSB and instruct NSB to redirect its investments into
non-government securities to the extent permitted by the Government's borrow-
ing needs. Further reduction of the NSB deposit rate would almost certainly
be followed by a reduction of commercial bank deposit rates.
2.07    The constraining effect of high real interest rates on economic
activity has been compounded by the perverse relationship of relative rates
with medium- and long-term lending rates being less than time deposit and
savings rates. Currently, under the refinance schemes of the CBC and the
lending policies for term financing of the state-owned commercial and
development banks, lending rates of 14% for medium- and long-term loans are
4% below the rates for Commercial Bank overdrafts and equal to the 12-month
term time deposits. Through this subsidy mechanism, GOSL has tried to insu-
late the non-traditional manufacturing and export sector from the high cost
of capital, but given the fungibility of finance and complementarity of fixed
and working capital, this policy has not been very effective. GOSL has also



-10-
devised complex regulations to discriminate in its financial subsidy policy
between agriculture, tourism, manufacturing, approved ministerial projects
and others. The financial system, which is largely owned or controlled by
the State has, until recently, also been used to subsidize PEs, diverting
funds from poten.tially viable private sector projects. These issues would be
addressed under the aegis of the comprehensive review of the financial sector
being carried out by GOSL with the help of the IMF and the World Bank. This
review would focuses on measures needed to rationalize the interest rate
structure, improve credit allocation, promote the capital market and improve
the availability of development finance.
III. THE BANK'S INDUSTRIAL LENDING STRATEGY
A. Lending and Industrial Strategy
3.01    In 1967 the Bank made its first loan to GOSL for industrial develop-
ment through DFCC. This and subsequent loans up to 1977 had little policy
content and were made to support the private sector's foreign exchange
requirements. Conditionality of the. loans focussed on relending rates and
institutional upgrading. In 1978, a Bank industrial sector mission iden-
tified a number of weaknesses in Sri Lanka's institutional and policy frame-
work, analyzed the performance of the public industrial enterprises and
focussed on the potential of small- and medium-scale industry. After the
review, IDA made two credits for SMI development including the creation of a
network of commercial bank SMI financing units, establishment of subsector
specific vocational training centers and provision for extension services.
Later, in 1983, a further credit was made for large-scale industrial
development. The credit was used also as a vehicle to develop the basis for
intensive discussions with COSL on industrial policy and to implement ele-
ments of a comprehensive trade and industrial policy reform program covering
tariff reform, industrial and export incentives and public sector efficiency.
B. Impact of Past Operations
3.02    DFI Operations.  Performance under the early DFI operations was
satisfactory. The Project Performance Audit Report, dated December 7, 1977,
covering Ln. 520-CE and Ln. 634-CE to DFCC, indicated that DFCC had performed
well in an environment of excessive government control and limited private
investment opportunity, and that considerable institutional development had
been achieved. The report noted, however, that there was still a need to
strengthen DFCC's project appraisal capabilities and project identification
and promotion, particularly in the area of export-oriented projects. The
issues were taken up in Crs. 566-CE and 742-CE. The Project Completion
Report, dated June 22, 1984, covering these projects indicated that con-
siderable improvements had taken place within DFCC and that the projects



-l1-
provided the Bank Group with a valuable insight into the workings of a small
DFC operation in an expanding, liberalized financial system. The PCR also
highlighted the need for a more creative approach by DFCC and the Bank Group
to support and equip DFCC and similar institutions for survival in an expand-
ing, more open economy. The PPAR and PCR9 for the DFCC projects indicate
that Bank Group financing was particularly important in the development of
the industrial sector, and with the exception of hotel projects, most sub-
projects funded from Bank Group operations were economically and financially
viable.
3.03    The SMI Projects.  The Bank's two SMI projects expanded the focus of
industrial financing from a concentration on DFCC to the system as a whole by
using public and private commercial banks as intermediaries for term financ-
ing in Sri Lanka and by assisting GOSL to establish two new financing
institutions. The projects also (i) addressed technical and marketing con-
straints in major light industrial subsectors, supporting the promotion and
extension services of the EDB and the Industrial Development Board (IDB),
and (ii) assisted GOSL in developing the foundations for the major reform of
its trade and industrial policies, particularly in the area of tariffs, by
funding effective protection studies and initial reviews of the incentive
structures.
3.04    The First SMI Project (Cr. 942-CE) for US$16 million, contributed
substantially to the sound organization and operation of NDB, providing a
general ad"risor and institutional assistance in support of its direct financ-
ing activities; and an advisor, training, and frequent IDA supervision mis-
sions to establish its SMI refinance operations. A branch network of SMI
financing outlets was established in conjunction with two public and two
private sector commercial banks and training of SMI officers was provided.
Over 400 officers have received local or foreign SMI training prior to or
during implementation, and 150 SMI officers now are engaged full-time in SMI
lending operations at head office departments and key branches. As of
December 31, 1985, about 2,500 subloans averaging US$9,100 had been financed,
with fixed costs per job (excluding land) of about US$1,000. Major subsec-
tors financed have been building materials, agro-industries and light
engineering. Random samples of subprojects indicate that many are now
experiencing financial problems with increasing levels of arrears, although
restructuring programs are under implementation to address this issue.
Progress under the technical and marketing service component has been slower,
as expected, due to the need to locate suitable consultants, construct
facilities and recruit staff for the subsector schemes. Full disbursement of
the project funds was made by the closing date of December 31, 1985.
3.05    The Second SMI Project (Cr. 1182-CE) provided US$28 million equiva-
lent for partial refinance by NDB of SKI term loans made by selected commer-
cial banks and DFCC. To support these operations the Credit has financed
training and consultancy to improve the SMI and direct financing operations
of NDB and the SMI operations of the commercial banks. A technical and
marketing services component included improvements in SMI extension services
by the IDB, with field-level coaching of regional extension officers, an SMI



-12-
consultancy fund to tap local private sector expertise in solving problems of
SMIs and expansion of service facilities for light engineering SMIs. The
Project gave increased emphasis to exports, financing an EDB program for
practical consultancy and training, sales trips, policy studies and pilot
projects involving exporters and export-oriented manufacturers in key light
industrial products.
3.06    As of March 31, 1986, three and a half years after effectiveness,
only US$18.1 million, or 65%, of the US$28.0 million credit component had
been committed, compared to the 95% projected at the time of appraisal. The
major reasons for this significant shortfall were (i) the political uncer-
tainties before and after the 1983 ethnic disturbances; (ii) inadequate
promotion of SMI operations at the Participating Credit Institution (PCI)
branches and inadequate staffing; (iii) optimistic assessment of demand at
the time of appraisal due to the rapid commitment rate of SMI I;
(iv) saturation of the satisfaction of demand for SMI financing in key SMI
subsectors such as rice milling, construction materials and other subsectors
under SMI I; and (v) increasing level of arrears under SMI I. More recently,
the impact of continuing political stability, increasing sponsor interest in
the SMI scheme and extensive project promotion efforts have changed the
situation. The project pipeline is improving and average monthly commitments
are now as. 33 million (US$1.2 million). Simplification of appraisal
formats, clarification of sectoral and expenditure eligibility and an
increased spread of 2% to the PCIs has made SMI II lending more competitive
with the general industrial lending of the PCIs, and the credit component is
now expected to be fully committed after a one-year extension. Commitments
of the US$2 million TA component have reached US$1.5 million and full disbur-
sement should be achieved by closing date.
3.07    The First Industrial Development Project - IDP I (Credit 1S401-CE),
which became effective in January 1984, provided SDRs 23.1 million in IDA
financing. The objectives of the project were to fund medium- and large-
scale industrial projects, continue the institutional upgrading programs
initiated under SMI II, and assist GOSL in introducing a comprehensive
medium-term (1983-1988) program of trade and industrial policy reform through
adjustment of the tariff structure, adjustment of industrial and export
incentives to address distortions and rationalization of public manufacturing
enterprises. The credit component of SDRs 21.1 million was fully committed
by July 31, 1985. As of March 31, 1986, 74% had been disbursed compared to
the SAR estimate of 25%. Project funds were used to finance 117 subprojects,
of which 97 (83%) were medium- scale BMRE projects and 20 (17%) were for new
operations. Sectoral distribution covered agro-industry, ceramics,
chemicals, glassware, garments, engineering, printing and packaging and
rubber products. In value, SDRs. 15 million (70%) was committed for private
sector projects and SDRs. 6.1 million (30%) for joint-venture subsidiary



-13-
companies of public sector Corporations. 1/ While most of these projects are
still under implementation, analyses of the appraisal reports show satisfac-
tory domestic resources cost ratios, and estimated economic and financial
rates of return, based on Bank guidelines, in excess of 15%.
3.08    Although implementation of the policy and institutional components
has been slower than expected, all the components of the ambitious program
are expected to be fully implemented before the project closing date of
March 31, 1988. In the area of tariff reform, a first round of tariff
adjustment has been carried out (para 1.05), but tariff levels are still high
and some product groups, particularly those produced by the public sector,
have yet to be adjusted. The institutionalizing ce :e tariff review process
has been accepted by GOSL, and a permanent Tariff iommission has been estab-
lished. In the area of incentive reform, considerable progress has been made
in developing proposals to remove distortiuns in the export incentive struc-
ture (para 1.06). Under IDP I, funds for twelve months of consultancy serv-
ices were provided to the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP) to analyze
industrial investment incentives relative to those available for tourism,
transport, and import trade, and to determine needed modifications in- the
incentive structure. TORs and the consultants for the study have been
cleared by IDA and GOSL has appointed consultants to prepare an interim
review paper which is expected to be available by April 30, 1986. Progress
on implementing the public enterprise efficiency elements of the project has
been poor, due mainly to political constraints (para 1.09). As of March 31,
1986, only one of the required MISA advisors had been recruited and only one
study initiated to determine unit rehabilitation/productivity improvement
requirements. A revised action program reflecting the recent changes in the
structure of MISA, has recently been agreed and a detailed work program for
1986/87 submitted to IDA (Annex 3). The development of Management
Information Systems (MIS) for Corporations and Enterprises under the control
of other Ministries is also behind schedule, although the MOFP is actively
recruiting consultants for this purpose in conjunction with MISA. In the
financial sector, institutional upgrading of DFCC, NDB and several of the
Nationalized Commercial Banks has been effective. Appraisal and end use
capabilities of the NCBs have been improved, although more work is stilt
needed to upgrade their capabilities. Management information systems have
been developed and implemented in several commercial banks and assistance has
been requested to help in strategy studies and product diversification.
1/ Creation of subsidiary companies allows greater autonomy of operations
under the provisions of the Companies Act.



-14-
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Participating Financial Institutions
4.01    The First IDP.   In preparing the first IDP, the capabilities of the
commercial banks, DFCC and NDB were evaluated to determine their institu-
tional and operational capabilities. After the review it was decided that
the appraisal and end-use standards of the commercial banks needed further
development to satisfactorily appraise larger more complex projects and that
it was not appropriate to use them as intermediaries under the project. The
standards of DFCC and NDB were found satisfactory and they were used to
channel the resources of IDP I to the industrial sector.
4.02    Past Performance - DFCC and NDB.  The performance of DFCC and NDB
under the first IDP has been generally satisfactory, with commitment and
disbursement significantly ahead of the rate anticipated at the time of
appraisal. For both institutions, considerable progress has been made,
through the technical assistance process, in improving appraisal standards
and procedures and upgrading end use and project supervision operations.
Under IDP I, staff from both institutions have received local and overseas
training which has been supplemented by on the job training under the
guidance of specialist advisors. While there has been improvement in the
procedures and standards of both institutions, they face a number of growing
problems. Loans made to the hotel sector at the time of the tourist boom
(1980-1983) have turned into non-performing assets, due largely to the
adverse impact of the ethnic disturbances upon tourism and in turn upon hotel
profitability. The recent (1985) GOSL orchestrated rescheduling of hotel
arrears, and the provision of offset financing at 62 by the Central Bank has
eased the situation somewhat, but still leaves uncertainty over the future
worth of these investments. Non-collection of interest has resulted in lower
profitability which has been compounded by the need to make heavy provisions
for bad and doubtful debts to cover prior year omissions. In the area of
resource mobilization, both DFIs have moved slowly in developing alternative,
non-traditional (i.e. ADB/IDA) sources of funding. With the increase in
onlending costs and fixed relending levels, the increasing costs of funds
have squeezed interest margins on term lending operations, with consequent
impact on overall profitability as reflected in the DFIs' key financial
ratios, particularly the return on assets.



-15-
B. Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) 1/
4.03    Background.  DFCC was established by an Act of Parliament in 1955 2/
to provide financial assistance principally to the private industrial sector,
but also to agriculture and industrial service enterprises, ircluding hotels,
transportation, construction and engineering. DFCC's initial at'thorized
capital was Rs 8 million which has been increased to Rs. 100 million (US$3.7
million). Ownership is widely distributed. At present 44% of DFCC's shares
are held by two major public sector commercial banks and other public
institutions, 35% by foreign investors (including IFC) and 21% by private
corporations and individuals. The Government bears the foreign exchange risk
on DFCC foreign borrowings and the MOPP is empowered under the DFCC Act to
issue policy directives, although this authority has not been exercised.
While maintaining a close relationship with GOSL, DFCC is guided by normal
commercial principles in its financial operations and operates with suffi-
cient autonomy from Government.
4.04    Institutional Aspects.  DFCC's operations are controlled by 1.ts
eleven member Board of Directors: six elected by shareholders; two directly
appointed by GOSL; and two indirectLy appointed as representatives of the two
government commercial banks. The Chairman is appointed by COSL, with the
current Chairman being a senior MOFP official; the General Manager (GM) is
an ex-officio Director. The full Board meets monthly and functions satisfac-
torily although there have been occasions recently where it has been slow to
address issues affecting the long term viability of DFCC, e.g. product/
service diversification and personnel policies. Assistant General Managers
for Operations, Administration and Merchant Banking report to the General
Manager, with the dominant role performed by the Assistant General Manager
(Operations) who has direct responsibility for all project appraisal and most
project supervision operations. The Assistant General Manager (Consultancy
and Merchant Banking) is responsible for rehabilitation of "sick or problem"
projects as well as representing DFCC in a number of companies in which DFCC
has equity. This structure is satisfactory for DFCC's present operations and
allows the General Manager to concentrate on planning, strategy and general
management. However, given the need to adapt DFCC's operations to the chang-
ing financial sector environment, there may be a need to revise this struc-
ture as proposed in the recent ADB funded Strategy Study (para 4.07), which
recommended a program of operational diversification. Given acceptance of
the proposed redirection together with the need for continued measures to
improve DFCC's operations, it has been agreed that IDA should be consulted
prior to any change in the Chairman and General Manager of DFCC.
1/ Financial data is shown in Annex 4. A detailed analysis of DFCC's
operations for 1980-1985 is available on the project file.
2/ The Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Act No. 35 of 1955
(DFCC Act).



-16-
Additionally, any substantive change in DFCC's Charter or organizational
structure would require the prior approval of IDA.
4.05    As of December 31, 1985, DFCC had 121 staff including 48 profes-
sionals. The quality of staff is good and management continues to place
appropriate emphasis on training to maintain quality standards. Since 1980,
professional staff levels have remained fairly constant; however, during
1983-1984 staff turnover increased significantly from 6% to 15%. Staff
salaries and conditions have been improved to remove a major cause
of turnover, and DFCC's conditions of service are presently reasonably com-
petitive with the Covernment service, commercial and development banks,
although still below those offered by foreign commercial bank3 and private
industry. A more comprehensive pay scale is expected to be announced early
in 1986. To offset the loss of trained staff caused by the turnover, ADB has
allocated US$200,000 from its TA resources for local and overseas training.
4.06    Strategy, Policies and Procedures.  DFCC's Statement of Operational
and Financial Strategy (1982 - 1985) provided a framework for its present
operations. The Statement identified areas of operational priority, estab-
lishes exposure limits and sets financial objectives. However, with the
liberalization of the financial systemt the focus of the strategy required
redirection and in FY85, with TA from ADB, DFCC carried out a corporate
strategy review to determine an appropriate course of operational activities
during 1986-1990. The review recommended that DFCC should provide a wider
range of client services by diversifying into equipment leasing, working
capital finance, insurance activities, export-import financing, expanded
merchant banking, unit trust operations and money market services.
Subsequently, DFCC has become involved in equipment leasing and working
capital financing. However, while the Strategy Study indicated areas of
potential diversification, it did not specify particular areas of diver-
sification nor indicate the operational and financial implications of DFCC's
expansion into new activities area. DFCC's Board has reviewed the recommen-
dations of the Study and have incorporated their conclusions into a revised
Strategy Statement and program of implementation. However, any future expan-
sion of DFCC's activities would require a greater resource mobilization
effort. Present onlending interest rates constrain DFCC from borrowing funds
at a rate that would allow onlending at a sufficient margin to cover costs
and generate adequate profits; this issue will be addressed in the proposed
interest rate review (para 2.07).
4.07    Analysis of recent DFCC project appraisals shows the need for further
efforts to improve appraisal standufds, as there is excessive optimism in
estimating implementation timing, working capital requirements and debt
servicing capabilities. Currently all appraisals of subloans above
US$250,000 include projections of internal financial rates of return, domes-
tic resource costs, employment generation and foreign exchange benefits; and
most large-scale projects include calculations of internal economic rates
of return. On the basis of the Bank's guidelines for calculating economic
rates of returnt a 15% ERR cut off is used to determine eligibility. Project
implementation and end use operations need to be upgraded to achieve an



-17-
improvement in performing assets in the portfolio. DFCC needs to focus more
rigorously on projects in arrears and to initiate restructuring and liqui-
dation programs for problem projects. Arrears, particularly in tourisa
projects, are an area of increasing concern which impacts on DFCC's financial
viability (para 4.11). Accounting and procurement systems and procedures are
satisfactory. DFCC uses Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures for
major foreign exchange contracts and international shopping is used when only
a limited number of suppliers can provide the required material or spare
parts. For these purchases, DFCC requires at least three quotations. Bids
are evaluated on the basis of technical specification and price. For local
purchases and small equipment subloans, DFCC requires at least three
quotations. DFCC's accounts are audited annually by independent external
auditors who have consistently issued unqualified opinions. Internal
accounting systems and procedures are sound.
4.0&    Operational Performance and Impact.  During 1981-1985, DFCC's resour-
ces came mainly from four sources - Central Bank refinancing for local cur-
rency loans, collections, ADB/IDA funding for foreign currency loans and
supplemental funding from internal generation of funds and equity issues. In
all, DFCC mobilized Rs 1.2 billion in local and foreign currency resources.
Borrowings from the CBC, ADB and IDA provided Rs 614 million (52%), internal
generation of funds Rs 493 million (41%), and share issues Rs 87 million
(7%). More recently DFCCt authorized by GOSL, has issued Rs 200 million of
debentures to the commercial banks at an interest rate of 7%. Utilization of
DFCC's accumulated resources fluctuated during 1980-1985, approvals grew
rapidly from Rs 84 million (1980) to Rs 252 million (1982), in 1983,
approvals dropped to Rs 56 million due partly to the poor performance of the
economy, ethnic disturbances and resource constraints caused by DFCC reaching
its debt:equity limit of 7:1. With additional equity, a rationalized operat-
ing structure and better project promotion, DFCC's approvals rose to Rs 267
million in 1984 and Rs 329 million in 1985. Until 1982, tourism was a major
area of investment accounting for 33% of DFCC's portfolio. With the downLurn
in tourism, these investments became heavily affected by arrears. As a
result of the ethnic disturbances and the drop in tourism, the approvals for
new investment projects dropped from 60% of total lending in 1981 to 30% in
1985, with compensating increases in BMRE investments from 40% in 1981 to 70%
in 1985. As of December 31, 1985, DFCC had assisted 500 companies with
funding of Rs 1.1 billion. About 91% of total lending has been in medium-
and long-term loans, with 9% in equity investments, either ordinary or
redeemable preference shares. Four subsectors -- hotels, chemicals, rubber
products and readymade garments -- account for 70% of total loans and invest-
ments with most projects concen- trated in the Western Province, particularly
in and around Colombo. Hotel projects are more dispersed, with projects in
the Western, Central and Southern Regions. The size of DFCC loans averaged
Rs 2.3 million (US$830,000), with new projects creating about 8,000 jobs at a
job/cost ratio of US$5,400. The ex-ante financial rates of return for the
new projects approved during 1982-1985 ranged from 12% to 50%, with a
weighted average return of 20%. Internal economic rates of return ranged
from 15% to 47%, with a weighted average of 29%. The economic indicators for
large-scale projects financed under Cr. 742-CE show financially and econumi-



-18-
cally viable projects. Ex-post economic returns for the 15 'A' subprojects
show a range of 12% to 40%, with a weighted average of 22%, which is
satisfactory.
4.09    Portfolio Management.  From 1981 to 1985 DFCC's portfoLio increased,
in line with its lending cperations, from Rs 400 million (1981) to Rs 867
million (1985) or at an annual rate of 21% p.a. Initially the tourism sector
(hotels) was the largest area of investment, but tourism loans declined
significantly after 1983, due partly to the ethnic disturbances and partly to
a conscious management decision to balance DFCC's portfolio by investing in
new areas such as food and beverage products, rubber products, light
engineering and pharmaceuticals. While hotels still constitute a large part
of DFCC's portfolio, the portfolio is now relatively well balanced. The
concentration in hotels has, however, had a significant impact on DFCC's
financial position and in the quality of the portfolio. Prior to the ethnic
disturbances in 1983, arrears were Rs 37 million or 8z of the portfolio; by
March 1985 arrears had increased to Rs 115 million, or 14% of the total
portfolio, with defaulting loans concentrated in the hotel sector or in
geographical areas significantly affected by the disturbances. In
April 1985, GOSL ordered a rescheduling of Rs 14.3 million of hotel arrears,
with offset funding at 6% provided by the CBC. As of December 31, 1985,
arrears were Rs 108 n.illion, or 12% of the portfolio, with four sectors -
garments (23%), textiles (18%), rubber products (17%) and construction
materials (13%) - accounted for 71% of the arrears. Fifteen non-SMI projects
accounted for 50% of the total arrears. Specific provisions have been made
for the arrears and the loans are fully secured by bank or sponsors' guaran-
tees or charges over non-project assets. DFCC's general provision for doubt-
ful debts has also been significantly increased by management's decision to
provide about Rs 30 million annually during 1985 - 1991 to cover any major
write-offs in hotel, textile and garment loans. Combined provisions (6.5% of
total portfolio) are now sufficiently high to cover any potential major
write-off with a satisfactory margin of safety.
4.10    With the increase in arrears, DFCC's collection decreased, falling
from 70% (1982) to 60% (1985/ although, as of December 31, 1985, the re-
scheduling of the hotel arrears and more rigorous end use activity have since
improved collections to an annual rate of 73%. However, more strenuous
collection efforts are needed and DFCC has reacted positively by implementing
a comprehensive portfolio restructuring program covering all projects in
arrears for six months or more or classified as problem projects. The
program provides for a detailed review/reappraisal of each project and agree-
ment with the sponsor and other creditors, on a specific action program to
liquidate the arrears based upon cash flows generated by asset sale, product/
operation rationalization or foreclosing on securities. A significant con-
straint to implementing the program is Sri Lanka's debt recovery legislation
which prevents DFCC (and other institutions) from quickly and effectively
exercising its rights to foreclose on securities (para 2.02). Court proces-
ses to secure judgement on payment of arrears can take up to five years, and
a significant proportion of DFCC's arrears have built up because of the
prolonged court process. Also the Sri Lanka Companies Act has no provision



-19-
for the appointment of receivers except following the decision by the courts
to liquidate.  Consequently, DFCC is able to exert very little leverage from
its collateral.
4.11    Financial Performance.  DFCC's net profit after tax (NPAT) increased
from Rs 6.4 million in 1980 to 16.7 million in 1985, largely as a result of
increased lending volumes in nominal terms. However, profitability in terms
of return on average total assets (ROA) declined from 2.2% (1980) to 2%
(1985), 1/ due to significant increases in the level of specific and general
provision for loan losses (in 1985 the general provision was Rs 25 million),
changes in DFCC's financial gearing, an increase in DFCC's cost of funds from
6.3% (1980) to 8.4% (1985), and a decrease in DFCC's net spread from 7.7%
(1980) to 5.6X (1985). Additionally, in 1985, DFCC changed its accounting
policy relating to the accrual of interest income, by suspending interest due
but not paid within six months (the full impact of this change will be felt
in 1986). In line with project approvals, total assets grew by 25% p.a. from
Rs 303 million (1980) to Rs 900 million (1985). With additional equity
infusions, DFCC's debt/equity ratio has fallen from 6.7:1 (1981) to 4.4:1
(1985), we7l within the agreed limit under IDP I of 7:1. Debt service
coverage at 1.3:1 throughout the period is satisfactory, and the return on
total net worth has averaged 16.5% p.a. Given the difficult operating
environment in Sri Lanka, DFCC's financial position is satisfactory.
4.12    Prospects and Key Ratios.  With the emergence of new institutions
providing term finance through leasing, suppliers' credits and debenture
financing, DFCC faces a difficult task if it is to achieve a rate of growth
and income spread that will allow it to expand its operations profitably.
This achievement .;'ll rest on two broad themes - consolidation of past opera-
tions through restructuring of the portfolio to optimize income generation
from existing loane and diversification of operations. The portfolio
restructuring is underway (para 4.09) and DFCC's management feel that its
recent move into equipment financing and leasing and proposed corporate
banking and working capital operations will enable it to achieve a compounded
growth in approvals of 16% p.a., increasing from Rs. 329 million in 1985 to
Rs. 1.2 billion in 1991 and approvals totalling Rs 5.2 billion during 1986 -
1991. About 60Z of DFCC's commitments are expected to be in foreign exchange
with funding provided by IDA, ADB and other bilateral agencies. These
projections are optimistic, and will require considerable effort by DFCC in
the area of project identification, promotional and implementation activities
if they are to be achieved.
4.13    For 1985-1991, NPAT is projected to increase from Rs. 16.7 million
(1985) to Rs. 28.1 million (1986), and then increase to Rs. 123.7 million
by 1991 - a growth rate which would increase profits after tax by an average
of 33% p.a. Profitability during 1986-1987 is influenced by (i) increased
administrative costs to establish new operational departments associated with
1/ This compares to a World Bank-wide average of about 1.4%.



-20-
planned product diversification, (ii) significant increases in specific and
non-specific provisions for bad and doubtful debts (about Rs. 20 million p.a.
is provided in 1986-1989), (iii) cost of funds increases from 9.3% (1985) to
9.8% (1990), and (iv) changes in the accounting treatment of interest in
arrears. Based on the projected NPAT and average total assets, ROA is
expected to increase from 2% (1985) to 2.3% (1986) and to improve gradually
to 3.6% in 1991.
4.14    While DFCC's intention to diversify its operations is a sound
strategy, its most important immediate priority is to increase earnings from
the present portfolio through more strenuous collection efforts and, when
appropriate, rigorous and objective project restructuring.  This should be
achieved by the ongoing portfolio restructuring program addressing the hard-
core arrears in the portfolio with greater emphasis upon arrears recovery
generally. Projected cash collection recovery rates, on a -rolling quarterly
basis, of 65% (1986) should be increased to at least 75% (1989 and there-
after) of total dues to reduce the portfolio infection rate from its present
level of 19%. Achievement of these targets would give DFCC a debt equity
ratio of 5:1 and a debt service coverage of 2.4 which is satisfactory.
C.  National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NtB) 1/
4.15    Background.  NDB was established in January 1979, 2/ with the prin-
cipal objectives of providing medium- and long-term credit to private and
public industries and mobilizing internal and external resources, including
stimulation of capital markets. NDB is empowered to offer a wide range of
financial services, including direct lending, refinancing, underwriting and
financing equity and debenture issues, providing guarantees, accepting
deposits and issuing letters of credit. NDB's authorized share capital is Rs
2 billion (about US$73 million), of which Rs 600 million has been paid up. 3/
Although NDB's Act makes provision for issuing shares to the public, the
initial issue was taken up by GOSL (67%), CBC (17%) and by Peoplets Bank and
the Bank of Ceylon (8% each). NDB enjoys the full support of GOSL, its major
shareholder. In accordance with the NDB Act, GOSL bears the exchange risk on
NDB's external borrowings, has granted NDB a tax holiday for the first ten
years of operation and guarantees NDB's borrowings from internal and external
sources. NDB is under the general supervision of the MOFP and, although its
1/ Annex 5 gives a summary of NDB's financial position; while a detailed
analysis oI NDB's operations during 1980-1985 is held on the project
files.
2/ Under the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka Act of 1979.
3/ Of this amount, Rs 450 million was in cash and Rs 150 million in
promissory notes of the NCBs.



-21-
administrative bi-4get is subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance
and Planning, it has been given full autonomy for its operations.
4.16    Institutional Aspects.  NDB's operations are controlled by its Board
of six Directors, all of whom are appointed with the concurrence of the
Minister of Finance and Planning. The Board presently comprises the
Secretary MOFP (ex-officio), one director appointed by the Monetary Board,
one director appointed by the Board of the People's Bank, one director
appointed by the Bank of Ceylon and two directors nominated by the Minister
of Finance and Planning. The Chairman of the Board is appointed by the
Minister for a period of four years. The Board meets regularly to set NDB's
overall operational policies and role in the financial sector as well as to
approve all direct lending proposals. The Chairman also acts as Managing
Director. Four Assistant General Managers for Operations (2), Administration
and Finance report to the General Manager. The GM has been supported by
expatriate advisors for Project Promotion, Operations and General Banking.
4.17    As of December 31, 1985, NDB had 163 staff including 79 profes-
sionals. Staff turnover was low from 1980-1983 due to the opportunities for
promotion in a new, growing institution and the strong reputation NDB built
in its initial years of operation. However, during 1984 turnove- rates for
professionals rose from llX to I5Z, due largely to the GOSL controlled salary
levels and the attractive benefits offered by private banks and industrial
firms. With the sharp increase in staff turnover, the need for manpower
planning, salary adjustment, and in-house training became acute. In October
1984, a Manpower Planning and Training Unit was established to reinforce
NDB's use of internal and external training. Initially, the Manpower
Planning Unit has focused on staff training for commercial bank officers
participating in the SMI Refinancing Scheme. NDB has programmed staff par-
ticipation in a number of local and overseas courses during 1986-1988.
4.18    Strategy, Policies and Procedures.  NDB's Policy Statement, approved
in April 1981, established clear guidelines for direct project financing,
refinance and equity activities and specified prudent financial exposure
limits for equity and term lending operations. Supplementing the Policy
Statement was a detailed operational program for 1985 - 1986 which provided a
basis for NDB's short-term operations but which did not give a longer term
perspective of NDB's strategy, areas of diversification and priorities.
NDB's Strategy and Operational Policy Statements have now been revised by
NDB's management to reflect strategic options for the medium term
(1986-1988).
4.19    In the areas of operational standards and procedures, NDB's
appraisals are sound, providing adequate coverage of technical, market and
financial aspects. For all projects receiving direct assistance, NDB calcu-
lates the financial rate of return and for subloans of over US$400,000 equiv-
alent computes the internal economic rate of return, based on the World
Bank's guidelines for calculating economic rates of return and domestic
resource costs (DRC). While most projects have higher economic rates of
return, 15% is used as the normal minimum acceptance cutoff point.



-22-
Appraisals and management review are completed in four to six months which is
satisfactory for large-scale projects. With TA under IDP I, NDB has
strengthened its Project Identification and Promotion activities and has
modified its appraisal format and procedures to accelerate processing of
smaller equipment loans to become more competitive with leasing companies.
During project implementation and end use operations, projects are visited
every six months with more frequent visits to complex or problem projects.
NDB's procurement standards are satisfactory with all foreign exchange
related procurement for major projects made through either International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), Limited International Bidding (LIB) or interna-
tional shopping for limited supply or spare part procurement in accordance
with the World Bank's procurement guidelines. NDB's accounting procedures
and standards are satisfactory and are subject to an adequate annual audit by
the Auditor Ceneral or an independent auditor acting on his behalf.
4.20    Operational Performance and Impact.  Since its establishment in 1979,
NDB has supplemented its initial equity base (Rs 600 million) with the mobil-
ization of Rs 1.3 billion, through internal cash generations Rs. 731 million
(57Z), borrowings from CBC, ADB and IDA of Rs. 415 million (33%), and general
funding Rs. 123 million (10%). In turn these resources have been used to
fund disbursements of Rs 1.4 billion (US$52 million) against NDB's net
approvals of Rs 1.8 billion (US$67 million) to about 2,400 projects. Direct
loans to 184 large scale projects accounted for Rs 1.7 billion (US$62
million), or 77% of NDB's total approvals; refinance of 2,130 SMI projects
accounted for the balance. NDB's financing accounted for about 32% of the
total large scale project costs. Metals and chemical units accounted for 25%
of total approvals; other main areas were hotels (18%), industrial services
(17%) and rubber products (10%). Average loan size on direct financing
during 1980 - 1985 was about Rs. 15 million (US$547,000), with the largest
loan being US$3.3 million which was NDB's share of a syndication of US$25
million. About 60% of NDB's financing was for BMRE activities, with the
major concentration in the Western region in and around Colombo. The
weighted ex-ante average financial rate of return of projects approved for
direct loans since 1980 is 18% with a range of 11% to 46%. Estimated ERRs of
recent large projects range from 18% to 50%, with a weighted average of 32%.
These investments are expected to earn or save about US$30 million in foreign
exchange annually and are expected to create some 4,700 jobs. Average fixed
asset costs per job are about US$21,000; this ratio reflects NDB's concentra-
tion in capital intensive investments in the chemical sector (e.g. Ceylon
Oxygen) and hotels and the relatively high proportion of BMRE lending with
low incremental job creation in NDB's port- folio. Since 1983, NDB has given
greater attention to subsector analysis and project development. NDB has
established a Project Identification and Development Unit, and with the
assistance of an advisor funded under IDP I, has built up a network of con-
tacts with the private sector, investment promotion agencies and the
Government. NDB also has made good if slow use of a UNDP Project Development
Facility of US$750,000 for consultancy services to carry out feasibility
studies and to assist in project implementation. Investments of US$70 mil-
lion (including US$35 million for the Colombo Dry Docks) have resulted from
the 30 studies carried out.



-23-
4.21    Portfolio Management.  As of December 31, 1985, NDB's net portfolio
had increased from Rs. 260 million (1980) to Rs. 1.4 billion; with light
engineering loans accounting for 31%, hotels 24%, food and beverages 13%,
textiles 8%, rubber products 8%, agro industries 8% and miscellaneous 8%.
From January 1979 to date, total arrears have increased from Rs 7 million to
Rs 118 million, or 9% of the total portfolio with textiles and ready-made
garment units accounting for the mounting arrears. In line with GOSL*s
policy NDB has rescheduled its hotel sector loans. With the increasing
arrears, collections as a percentage of interest and principal falling due
decreased from 90% (1982) to 69% (1983) and to 60% (1984) although with the
rescheduling of hotel arrears and implementation of a portfolio arrears
recovery program, NDB's collections have increased to an annual rate of 69%.
To reduce the level of arrears and portfolio infection, NDB is implementing a
detailed portfolio restructuring program for all projects with arrears of six
months or more or those classified as problem projects (e.g. with cost and
time overruns within the repayment grace period). NDB's loans are fully
secured by charges on the assets of projects. Provisions, and capital and
reserves of Rs. 1.2 billion (US$44 million) are adequate to cover any poten-
tial write-offs.
4.22    Financial Performance.  NDB's profitability has grown consistently,
with net profits increasing from Rs 80 million in 1980 to Rs 112 million in
1985, or at an average annual rate of 7.5%. In 1983 and 1984, income from
project operations accounted for 66% of revenue, with income from deposits
and miscellaneous operations 34%, a reversal of the revenue mix in 1981 and
1982. Increased cost of funds has led to a decline in its earnings spread
from 12.0% (1980) to 10.5% (1985). These patterns and an increasing level of
NPAs have constrained NDB's profit growth although its profitability is still
satisfactory. NDB is exempt from taxation until 1989 and has paid only a 6%
dividend on share capital. Reserves and retained earnings, which are now Rs
536 million, have contributed substantially to NDB's total resources. NDB's
total assets have grown from Rs 0.7 billion (1980) to Rs 2.0 billion (1985),
or by 23% p.a. Initially, the asset mix was 75% deposits and 25% loans; now
deposits are 40% and loans 60%. With the change mix in operations, the
increasing level of NPAs and the fall in overall collections
(paragraph 4.21), the return on assets (ROA) has dropped from 12% (1980) to
6% (1985). The overall ratio for 1985 has subsequently improved sig-
nificantly following GOSL's refinancing and rescheduling of hotel loans.
NDB's debt:equity ratio is 0.72:1 and its debt service coverage ratio is
presently 3.4:1, both highly satisfactory.
4.23    Prospects and Key Ratios.  Given political stability, the investment
climate and business prospects for NDB are satisfactory, although close
attention will be needed to ensure viable operation of ongoing subprojects.
During 1986-1990, NDB expects to increase its direct lending operations by
10% p.a., with total net approvals mostly to the private sector projected to
be Rs 6.2 billion (US$226 million) in current prices during the period.
Direct finance loans would account for 64%, SMI refinancing 28% and equipment
financing and equity participation 8%. Foreign exchange loans are expected



-24-
to account for 52% of annual lending with funding provided by IDA, ADB and
Euro/Japanese Syndications. Net profits are projected to increase from Rs
112 million (1985) to Rs 219 million (1990). However, with the need for
increased borrowings to service the projected level of operations and rising
costs of funds, NDB's net interest spread is projected to fall from 6% (1985)
to 3% (1990), a level which will require optimal collection and performing
assets. With the increased profits, ROA is projected to increase from 6%
(1985) to 10% (1990), while NDB's DSCR is expected to decline from 4.5:1
(1985) to 2.7:1 (1990).
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description and Objectives
5.01    The basic concept of the proposed project is to complement and
expand the focus of IDP I through further reform in the areas of tariffs,
incentives, import controls, and public enterprise efficiency and through
measures to review interest rate structures and other financial policy issues
while simultaneously supporting project investment in high priority
industrial subsectors. The proposed Project would involve a credit of
US$20 million, with US$18 million for subproject financing and US$2 million
for technical assistance to continue policy studies, institutional upgrading
programs, strategy studies and public enterprise firm level rehabilitation/
productivity improvement reviews. Given their performance under IDP I and
the slow improvement in the appraisal capabilities of the commercial banks it
is proposed to use DFCC and NDB as the financial intermediaries under this
project subject to their compliance with eligibility criteria. They would be
responsible for appraising projects in accordance with Bank standards and all
subproject appraisals for projects above US$300,000 would include calcula-
tions of internal financial and economic rates of return and domestic
resource cost ratios. Although sectors such as agro-processing, construc-
tion, mining and industrial services are eligible for financing, on the basis
of existing project pipelines, the bulk of the project funds are expected to
go to manufacturing with particular emphasis upon manufacturing of non-
traditional export items.
5.02    Co-financing by ADB.  Preparation of the proposed project has been
coordinated closely with ADB which has approved a US$20 million loan to
COSL/DFIs on similar terms and conditions. Appraisal missions were carried
out jointly with ADB, and ADB has provided full support for the condition-
ality of the IDA project, notably in the area of interest rate review, trade
and industrial policy reform as well as institutional development. The ADB
Loan will provide sufficienc financing to meet the needs of the DFIs until
June 1986.
5.03    Project Objectives.  More specifically, the objectives of the
Proposed Second Industrial Development Project (IDP II) would be to:



-25-
(a) meet industrial term lending requirements to increase the output,
employment, efficiency and exports of viable medium-scale private
industrial firms, and a limited number of selected public sector
manufacturing enterprises;
(b)  upgrade and diversify the institutional capabilities of the DFIs;
(c) sustain the progressive reform of tariffs by addressing anomalies
not covered in the January 1985 tariff reforms and by reinforcing the
process of utilizing effective protection analysis in the further
rationalization of tariffs and incentives;
(d) address industrial and export incentive issues to provide a better
basis for fostering the expansion of manufactured production and
exports in line with Sri Lankats comparative advantage; and
(e) complement the programs to improve public enterprise efficiency
initiated under IDP I, with work on restructuring of individual PEs
as public or private concerns, and introducing a signalling system
to encourage better operating and financial performance in all PEs.
B. Project Components
5.04    Subproject Financing. It is expected that the bulk of the SDRs. 15.7
million (US$18 million) subproject financing component would be utilized for
balancing, modernizing, rehabilitating and expanding (BMRE) facilities in
existing viable private sector enterprises and to fund new private sector
investments. Major areas of activity are expected to be agro-industries,
light engineering, chemicals, garments, rubber products, construction related
industries and industrial service activities. A relatively small amount of
this component would fund public enterprise BMR subprojects designed to
restructure existing facilities to make them more efficient within the con-
text of the Government's overall program for the rehabilitation of the public
manufacturing enterprises and the improvement of public sector efficiency.
All public enterprise projects would be subject to the prior approval of the
Association. Loans from the participating financing institutions would be
limited to firms not eligible for financing under the ongoing SMI II Project
(Credit 1182-CE). All industrial sector related subprojects with estimated
economic rates of return of at least 15% would be eligible; however, all
hotel sector subproject applications would be reviewed by IDA on a case by
case basis.
5.05    Technical Assistance Component.  The technical assistance elements of
the proposed Project would focus on complementing and expanding the DFIs'
operational capacity, improving the efficiency of specific public manufactur-
ing enterprises, institutionalizing the tariff reform process, developing and
implementing incentive reform based on the findings of ongoing studies and
integrating the results of ongoing trade and industrial policy reviews with



-26-
the findings of the proposed Financial Sector Study to provide GOSL with a
comprehensive integrated industrial strategy (paragraph 5.17). Technical
assistance funding of US$2 million would be provided for:
(a) institutional upgrading and diversification
DFCC -- US$500,000
NDB  - US$500,000
(b) Public Enterprise restructuring studies
MISA, MOFP and NDB -- US$300,000
(c) developing and implementing a public enterprise
monitoring/signaling system (MOFP): US$250,000;
(d) implementing trade and industrial policy reform (NOFP): US$250,000;
(e)  development of an-integrated Industrial Strategy:  US$200,000.
5.06    Details of the TA components are set out in Annex 6.  The IDA funds
would be supplemented by rupee funding by GOSL and the DFIs to meet local
currency costs of training, consultancy assistance and facility support. The
technical assistance includes about 160 consultant months in foreign assis-
tance and advisory services, and 80 man-months in local consultancy. The TA
component also incorporates about 48 man-months in foreign training in the
areas of unit trust management, portfolio restructuring, working capital
evaluation and project identification and promotion. IDA would approve the
TORs, the selection of consultants and terms and conditions of appointment
for all TA assignments. The IDA TA component would be supplemented by ADB
funding of US$200,000 for staff training in DFCC.
C. Participating Intermediaries
5.07    Based on a review of their operations vis-a-vis other financial
institutions, DFCC and NDB have been selected as participating inter-
mediaries. However, to provide a sound basis for future operations, both
institutions need to address past activity-related issues and to focus on the
strategic decisions necessary to guide their operations in the future.
Presently, there is lack of definition of the DFI's future roles and there is
a need to diversify their activities to enable them to become more competi-
tive with other financial institutions. To address this issue, the DFIs have
submitted to IDA revised strategy statements which analyze strategic choices
and assess the possible effects of each upon the organization structure,
resource mobilization requirements and financial viability. These strategies
are supported by revised projections for 1986 - 1988 which have been reviewed
and approved by the respective DFI Boards. Additionally, the Association has
reviewed, and is satisfied with, the progress on the implementation of port-
folio restructuring programs based on approved (i) rescheduling policy,
(ii) write off policy, and (iii) sectoral analysis covering all projects in
arrears for six months or more or classified as a problem project.



-27-
5.08    Conditions for Participation.  During negotiations, agreements were
reached with GOSL and the DFIs on the form, content and implementation of:
Statements of Strategy and Operating Policies, training programs, portfolio
restructuring programs, detailed collection ratios for 1986-1988, financial
covenants for 1986-1988 and periodic reporting requirements. It also was
agreed during negotiations that GOSL/DFIs would not change their Operating
Charters/Statutes, Chief Executive Officers or General ManE gers without prior
consultation with IDA.
5.09    It was agreed that effectiveness of the Subsidiary Lcan Agreement
between GOSL and each DFI and the participation of the DFIs in the Project
would require DFI Board approval and subsequently implementation/achievement
of their (i) Policy and Strategy Statements (1986-1991), (ii) collection
targets and (iii) training programs. Additionally the DFIs should have
achieved and maintained covenanted financial performance indicators, includ-
ing debt/equity ratios, debt service coverage ratios, return on net worth and
return on average total assets. Given recent fluctuations in collection
rates, achievement and maintenance of a minimum cash collection rate, com-
puted on a rolling quarterly basis, of 65% during 1986, subsequently increas-
ing to 70% (1987) and 75% (1988), supported by continued implementation of
detailed portfolio restructuring programs, would be required as a condition
of participatioA. A DPI would not be eligible to participate in the project
until it has fulfilled the conditions of participation and signed a sub-
sidiary loan agreement with GOSL. Continued access to project funds would
depend on each DFI complying with the respective conditions of participation,
particularly collection targets.
5.10    Condition of Loan Effectiveness.  The signing of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, by one DFI would be a condition
of effectiveness of the Credit.
D. PoLicy and Institutional Reform
Financial Sector
5.11    Interest Rate Review.  As noted in paragraphs 2.06 and 2.07, a number
of anomalies exist in the level and structure of interest rates. Under the
proposed Project, steps would be taken to address these issues. Term lending
rates would initially be set at 14% with subsequent adjustment on the basis
of annual reviews. An IMF/Bank mission is currently carrying out a detailed
analysis of the financial sector to determine the measures needed to:
improve the domestic money market; regulate money market liquidity; rational-
ize interest rates; improve credit allocation; and promote capital markets
and the availability of development finance. To help ensure that interest
rates are appropriately adjusted during project implementation, the proposed
Credit would be divided into two tranches of US$10 million each, with release
of the second tranche to be made following agreement between GOSL and IDA on
a mechanism for determining appropriate interest rates for term lending. It
was agreed that IDA and GOSL would review the appropriateness of interest



-28-
rates annually in the light of (a) the rate of inflation and the need to
ensure that deposit and lending rates remain positive in real terms,
(b) present borrowing and lending rates, and (c) the adequacy of spreads of
the participating financial institutions.
5.12    Institutional Upgrading.  The project would enable IDA to continue
working with GOSL and the DPIs to improve the flow of funds for industrial
finance by further strengthening of operational standards, management and
accounting information systems and in developing future operational
strategies. The project would support implementation of programs of finan-
cial services diversification through establishment of corporate banking,
working capital, cash management and equity financing functions and the
restructuring of portfolios to increase profitability and help ensure long
term financial viability. The operations of the DFIs would also be upgraded
through further development of project promotion.
Trade and Industrial Policy Reform
5.13    Development of an Industrial Strategy.  The Government has estab-
lished an Industrial Policy Committee (IPC) to prepare an explicit overall
strategy for industrial development. The project would provide the technical
assistance needed to help the IPC develop the strategy and a program of
actions, linking the present situation and the objectives of the Government
by drawing on the work on tariff reform, incentive review, fiscal/monetary
policies and public enterprise efficiency, as well as the findings of the
proposed IMF/World Bank mission. Terms of reference for this assistance have
been agreed, and utilizing funding from IDP I the first draft of a prelimi-
nary strategy statement is currently under preparation for discussion at the
forthcoming July 1986 Aid Group meeting. This draft would be further elabo-
rated by policy advisors, who would be hired by October 31, 1986 to allow
adequate overlap with the various ongoing policy reviews and completion of
the study by February 1987. The Government would consult with the
Association on arrangements to implement the Strategy and, following agree-
ment with the Association on the elements of the Strategy, it would commence
a phased program of implementation by June 30, 1987.
5.14    Tariff Reform.  Technical assistance would be provided to the
Permanent Tariff Commission to carry out impact studies of the first round of
tariff reductions, update the EPRs, and develop a detailed three - five-year
action/work program for further tariff reforms, including inter alia those
which were not included in the the first round of reforms (paragraph 1.05).
Under the Project, understandings were reached with GOSL on the implementa-
tion of this work, which would be based on impact studies of the first round
of tariff reform and technical evaluation of prevailing tariff levels by the
Permanent Tariff Commission.
5.15    Import Controls.  The Project would continue support for the program
of liberalization already under implementation, by seeking to reduce or
elircinate remaining controls on the import of equipment and materials for
certain subsector activities, e.g. textiles, supplementing GOSL's recent



--29-
actions in lifting the total ban on textile imports. Presently the import
licensing exemption ceiling on a small group of products (mainly textile
equipment) is Rs 700,000, a limit established in 1978. During negotiations,
COSL indicated that, as part of the framework for implementing the comprehen-
sive integrated industrial strategy, further action would be considered to
eliminate import licensing requirements, or to significantly increase the
ceiling to maintain 1978 values in real terms.
5.16    Incentive Reform.  In the area of incentive structure review, ongoing
work on industrial and export incentives would provide the basis for imple-
mentation of agreed recommendations/proposals. Thus, during negotiations,
understandings were reached between GOSL and IDA on: the basis for a phased
action program for reform of the export incentive structure, incorporating
the findings of the recently prepared report of GOSL's Special Committee on
Export Incentives. In addition, the Government has agreed to appoint, by
October 31, 1986, suitably qualified and experienced consultants to review
the overall industrial investment incentive structure, and to help prepare
the comprehensive integrated industrial strategy (paragraph 5.13).
5.17    Improving Public Enterprise Efficiency.  Under the proposed Project,
the ongoing action programs in MISA and MOFP focussing on systems and firm
level technical rehabilitation would be supplemented by the upgrading of
NDB's capabilities to develop rehabilitation/productivity programs to improve
the efficiency of selected public corporations (e.g. State Hardware
Corporation). Additionally, the capabilities of NDB's associated equity
f nancing company Capital Development and Investment Corporation (CDIC) to
develop appropriate financing packages for PEs or GOBUs which are to be
rehabilitated prior to privatization or divestment would be improved. Under
CDIC's Articles of Association, its financial involvement in restructuring is
restricted to units which are limited liability companies or which have been
converted into public limited companies via the Companies Act or the Public
Enterprise/GOBU Conversion Act. This Act is presently before Parliament and
its impact on PEs restructuring and privatization would be discussed with
GOSL during negotiations. To facilitate the rationalisation/productivity
improvement, GOSL/MISA has submitted to IDA TORs, draft proforma contracts
and a listing of consulting firms identified to submit proposals to develop
rehabilitation/productivity improvement programs for five MISA corporations.
During negotiations, timetables for the completion of the Corporation/firm
level studies were agreed with GOSL/MISA.
E.  Costs and Financing Plan
5.18    Based on 120 medium- and large-scale private sector projects
presently in the pipeline of the DFIs, total project costs are estimated to
be about US$90 million, with about US$50 million-, or 55X, in foreign
exchange.  This figure would be increased by the cost, presently unspecified,
of BMR funding for a limited number of public sector units.  ADB has provided
US$20 million through a parallel line of credit and IDA would provide the
SDRs equivalent of US$18 million. The balance of the foreign exchange
requirement would be provided through suppliers credits and other bilateral
funding presently under discussion. The DFIs would provide about 15X, or



-30-
US$14 million, in local currency. Subborrowers contributions are expected to
be about 30X, or US$26 million equivalent. The foreign exchange requirements
for technical assistance (US$2 million) would be supplemented by equivalent
local currency resources from the DFIs and GOSL.
F. Terms and Conditions
5.19    The Credit.  The proposed credit of SDRs 17.4 million (US$20 million
equivalent) would be made available to COSL on standard IDA terms and con-
ditions. GOSL would onlend SDRs 15.7 million (US$18 million) of the Credit
to the DFIs through subsidiary loan agreements with each institution. The
IDA funds for term lending would be complemented by a parallel line of credit
of US$20 million from ADB. Under IDP I funds were allotted to the par-
ticipating institutions on a first come first served basis. This approach
encouraged competition and allowed for the continued strengthening of the
DFIs without interrupting the flow of funds to the private sector. This
approach would be continued under the project with the amounts available to
DFCC and NDB determined on the basis of actual commitments with no pre-
allocation by DFI. The proposed project includes specific eligibility
criteria for the DFIs to ensure that they maintain satisfactory operating
standards (para 5.09). Non-achievement of these targets would exclude a DFI
from access to the funds. The project funds are expected to be committed
within four years of Board approval which would allow the DFIs to submit
subprojects for approval until March 1990. The technical assistance funds of
US$2 million would be provided on a grant basis to the DFIs, MTISA and KOFP,
as the proposed expenditure is regarded by GOSL as development expenditures.
Local currency costs of the TA would be funded from the Government Budget and
by the DFIs.
5.20    Utilization of Proceeds.  The proceeds of the ADB and IDA projects
would be broken down into two separate tranches equivalent to US$10 million
each. To ensure the parallel and matching utilization of the proceeds of the
Credit and the ADB Loan, the commitment of funds from the second tranche of
either the Credit or the ADB Loan would be made only upon the full commitment
of the first tranches from both Projects. The commitment of funds from the
proceeds of the Project under the second tranche would also be subject to
agreement being reached on an interest rate mechanism for relending the
proceeds of the Credit to the DFIs (paragraph 5.11).
5.21    Onlending Terms.  The initial onlending rate to subborrowers by the
DFIs would be at 14% with the onlending rate to be reviewed annually, with
the first review to be based on the findings of the March 1986 IMF/Bank
review of the financial sector (para 2.07). Subsequently, the rates would be
revised as necessary, and at least annually, to ensure that they remain
positive in relation to medium-term inflation projections and allow an
appropriate spread to the term financing institutions. The factors to be
considered in determining the appropriate level would include (a) the trend
of inflation and the need to ensure that lending rates remain positive in



-31-
real terms, (b) present borrowing and lending rates; and (c) the adequacy of
spreads for Government to cover the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
If the onlending rate is revised, the new rate would apply only to loans
approved after the revision. Initially, GOSL would onlend the proceeds of
the Credit to DFCC and NDB at a spread of 5% and 4% respectively, sufficient
to cover administrative costs and risks of default on subloans approved under
the Project. The higher spread to DFCC is justified as it is subject to
corporate income tax of 44%, whereas NDB's income is tax free until 1989;
also the average DFCC subloan size is expected to be lower, with resultant
higher administrative costs as a percentage of subloan size. From
January 1, 1990 the spread would be 5% for DFCC and NDB. GOSL would pay the
standard commitment fee on the undisbursed amount of the Credit. GOSL has,
as a matter of policy, borne the foreign exchange risk on its borrowings of
this kind because it ti) believes that such risks are difficult for small-
and medium-sized firms to bear and (ii) causes problems of stability both for
the enterprise and the DFI. Thus, in accordance with the Statutes of DFCC
and NDB, GOSL would pass the proceeds of the Credit to the DFIs in rupees,
and would bear the foreign exchange risk on repayments to IDA.
5.22    Amortization.  Since there is a need to augment the local currency
resources of the DPIs, particularly of DFCC which presently cannot mobilize
resources from the local market, the repayment from the DFIs to GOSL would be
based on a fixed amortization schedule of 18 years including five years'
grace. The repayment periods of subborrowers to the DFIs would not exceed 15
years, including three years' grace; most subloans would be for seven to 10
years.
5.23    Subloan Size, Free Limits and Review.  Project funds would be avail-
able to both private and public sector enterprises. No specific allocations
would be made for either sector although, during negotiations, an under-
standing was reached with GOSL that public sector projects would be
restricted to BMR operations with all public sector projects subject to IDA's
prior approval. To avoid an overlap with SMI operations which provide fund-
ing for small operations, subloans eligible for financing under SMI II
(credit 1182-CE) would not be eligible for financing under this project while
SMI funds are available. The maximum subloan size would be Rs 41.5 million
(US$1.5 million). For DFCC, all subloans above US$300,000 would be submitted
to IDA for prior review and approval; this free limit is expected to result
in about 30% by number and 70% by amount receiving prior IDA review and
approval. In the case of NDB, prior IDA review and approval would be
required for all subloans above US$400,000. It is estimated that 40% of
NDB's subprojects by number and 70% by amount would receive prior IDA
approval. In total, about 70% of the proceeds of the credit component of the
project would be subject to prior IDA's review. All subproject applications
above US$300,000 submitted by DFCC and NDB will include cas culations of the
domestic resource cost ratio, and internal economic and financial rates of
return, and all subprojects above the free limit would be required to provide
an environmental impact assessment in accordance with the Bank's environ-
mental impact guidelines. The cut off level for acceptance of subprojects
would be an economic rate of return of at least 15% (5.04). To provide for



-32-
rapid disbursement of project funds, commitments not utilised promptly (i.e.
within 12 months) would be reviewed by IDA and the DFIs to determine
appropriate reallocation of funds. Additionally, to ensur- a balance mix in
their portfolios, total commitments in any one industrial subsector would be
limited to 20% of the respective total commitments of the DFIs under the
Project.
C. Administration
5.24    Procurement.  Given the nature of operations under the project,
contracts for civil works or goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$500,000 or more would be awarded through Limited International Bidding
(LIB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. In
these cases a general notice of procurement would be posted in the
Development Forum and the DFIs/subborrowers would contact embassies and trade
representatives of IDA member countries. For contracts below these levels or
where there are a limited number of suppliers, the DFIs would require the use
of international shopping procedures by involving at least three competitive
quotations from established sources. These procedures are appropriate given
the relatively small contracts, are adequate to ensure competitive bids and
conform to the Bank's standard practices for DFIs. The DFIs would be
expected to maintain records of the method of procurement and to monitor
utilization of subloans through regular supervision activities. Selection of
consultants to carry out the various TA studies would be made in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines on consultant appointment. Procurement awards
would be subject to an ex-post review by IDA during the course of supervision
missions.
5.25    Disbursement Procedures.  The estimated disbursement period is eight
years (Annex 7), which reflects the profile of actual disbursements of Bank-
wide DFC projects. For etigible subloans, IDA would disburse against 100% of
the foreign exchange costs for imported equipment and civil works, and 70%
of the costs of locally procured imported equipment bought off the shelf,
corresponding to Lhe estimated foreign exchange content of these items. As
in the case of IDP I, full documentation of expenditures would be submitted
to IDA. For the technical assistance component, IDA would finance 100% of
expenditures for consultants' services and overseas training. To facilitate
disbursement of TA charges and payment application of less than US$20,000,
COSL/IDA would establish a Special Account of SDRs. 1 million available to
the DFIs and implementing agencies an a first-come first-served basis. IDA
would reimburse expenditures incurred up to 120 days prior to the receipt
of subloan applications.
5.26    Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  DFCC's accounts would be audited
by external auditors acceptable to IDA. The accounts of subborrowers would
be audited according to their established practices and the covenants in the
subloan agreements. For NDB, public sector subborrowers and the Special
Account, accounts audited in accordance with IDA requirements, by the Auditor
General would be submitted to IDA. However, IDA shall have the right to



-33-
require that corporations contract the services of external auditors accept-
able to the Association, as considered necessary. Long-form audit reports
shall be submitted by DFCC, NDB and COSL (for the Special Account) within
four months of the fiscal year end. Cash collection reporting in a format
agreed by IDA would be required within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
Additionally, within 45 days of the end of each quarter, the DFIs would
submit quarterly progress reports covering their operations under the credit
and related institutional developments; financial statements would be sub-
mitted semi-annually.  MISA and MOFP would submit quarterly reports covering
progress under the public sector technical assistance program within 45 days
of the end of each quarter.
5.27    Monitoring the Reform Process.  The monitoring of progress in policy
liberalization will be carried out through regular supervision visits by IDA
and the ADB referenced to agreed action programs and understandings reached
during negotiations. Particular attention will be given to ensuring that the
reforms achieved to date (i.e. tarif£ rate adjustments, PE rationalization)
are maintained, and further progress towards reform is achieved during 1986 -
1988. Performance criteria to be used will include (a) further reductions
in tariff levels, (b) adoption of incentives to encourage more efficient
industrial investment and non-traditional exports, (c) increased autonomy and
improved monitoring of operations for selected PE units, (d) implementation
of rationalization programs for five corporations/enterprises, and
(e) progress on interest rate and other financial sector reform.



-34-
H. Benefits and Risks
5.28    Benefits.  The Project would provide a basis for continuing discus-
sions with GOSL and future action on major policy issues. The Project would
support further reform of the tariff structure and industrial incentives
which would encourage more efficient investment in the industrial sector.
The Project also is expected to help i*prove performance of public enter-
prises, supporting moves to increase autonomy, introducing performance
incentives, tackling firm-level problems, and accelerating the process of
increased private sector involvement in ownership and management. The work
of the IMF/Bank mission in March 1986, together with the arrangements for
tranching the Credit, are alse e-pected to lead to improvements in the struc-
ture and level of interest rates and in other financial sector policies.
Direct benefits of the lending component would include US$40 million in
additional fixed and permanent working capital investment-, with about US$35
million in incremental annual produLtion once projects become fully opera-
tional. Direct employment creation and export volumes would depend on the
composition of subprojects presented by the DFIs. About 2,500 jobs would be
created with fixed assets per job of about US$13,500; in addition, produc-
tivity of workers in existing enterprises would be increased through BMRE.
Technical assistance to diversify the operations of the DFIs and to improve
their subsector analysis and project promotion efforts are expected to result
in an increased proportion of term lending being channeled to subsectors with
higher value added and stronger forward and barckward linkages (e.ge agro-
industries, rubber products, chemical and engineering industries) outside
Colombo.
5.29    Risks.  A risk of the lending component of the proposed project is
that an adequate number of eligible subprojects might not materialize, due
to the continuing ethnic disturbances and uncertainties in a recessionary
environment. Additionally there is also a risk that the ongoing ethnic
situation will disrupt local markets to such an extent that projects already
approved by the DFIs are no longer viable and unable to service their loans.
This would impact upon the financial stability of the DFIs. However, steps
have been taken to carefully monitor the repayment performance of existing
projects and the financial viability of the DFIs, while the pipelines and
projections of the DFIs indicate credit demand well in excess of the amounts
provided under the IDA Credit and the parallel credit from ADB. Given the
pipeline of projects with the DFIs and applications already lodged with IDA,
full commitment of the SDRs. 15.7 million IDA subloan component should be
achieved in the four years envisaged under this Project. In the area of
public enterprise efficiency, success of the designed programs to achieve
this objective will require strong commitment by the relevant Ministries to
replace controls with a system of accountability and performance incentives,
and encourage increased private participation in ownership and management.
While commitment to the program has been obtained, implementation will
involve a delicate process; many controls are deeply entrenched, and there
will continue to be varying views on the appropriate role of public



-35-
enterprises. Proposed rehabilitation productivity improvement reviews agreed
during negotiations, reflects commitment to the concrete action necessary to
improve public enterprise performance.
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    During negotia;ions, appropriate understandings between the
Association, GOSL and the DFIs were reached on the contents, review and
adjustment of:
(a) Statements of Strategy and Operating Policies (para 5.06);
(b) training programs (para 5.06);
(c) portfolio restructuring programs (para 5.06).
6.02    During negotiations, appropriate agreement were reached between the
Association, GOSL and the DFIs on:
(a) detailed collection ratios for 1986-1988 (para 5.06);
(b) financial covenants for 1986-1988 (para 5.06);
(c) periodic reporting requirements (para 5.06);
(d) tranching of project proceeds (para 5.20);
(e) onlending terms, conditions and spreads (para 5.21);
(f) free limits and subproject reviews (para 5.23); and
(g) procedures and reporting requirements for procurement, disbursement
reporting, accounting and auditing (paras 5.24-5.27).
6.03    It is recommended that the Charter/Statutes, Chairman or Chief
Executive Officer of the DFIs should not be changed without prior consult-
ation with the Association (para 5.06).
6.04    It is recommended that a DFI should not be eligible to participate
in the Project until it has fulfilled agreed conditions of participation and
signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with GOSL (para 5.10).
6.05    During negotiations, agreements were reached between GOSL and IDA
on:
(a) the annual review and appropriate adjustment of relending rates
based on a formula to be determined by the March 1986 IMF/Bank
mission (paras 5.11 and 5.20);
(b) the preparation and implementation of an integrated industrial
strategy (paragraph 5.13);



-36-
(c) the appointment of consultants to conduct a review of the
industrial incentives structure and to help prepare the industrial
strategy (paragraphs 5.13 and 5.16);
(d) a phased program for commencement and completion of Corporation/firm
level rehabilitation/productivity improvement studies in five MISA
corporations (para 5.17).
6.06    It is recommended that as a condition of effectiveness of the project
at least one DFI should have signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with GOSL
(para 5.10).
6.07    The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$20 million equivalent to GOSL.



Secood IndiutrgAl Deyloimut Proelet
fs I Of 2_
Umo ._ a  w1   P41           S 4L Qt   0Z13. 1977-84
MI AMS                AM         U    UU   UR AlI           f M  0      M   AM A               AM   I0   SU    10 AV  A   ath                                      001
C.$   hts.2                    .3.20   2.149  3.0l5   0.192   uo.0       .o"o    *.1o     *...       -1. -74    192.0 .3.   -3e.2 -.4.5 )                  1.3 A/  1.0,e0           t0 0?
siel I          .                33     459   450      330 5e    55      070    a21         ..          0.1   -27.1   -7?.  -13.   -10e.2   -1A.         -5.0        g.e            -1             -&
le now aIlu%                     14     la     3*      31S       391    n.e.       -        -         -15.)   45.5   10.2    *.1   41.7    *.S.                    -                  -
I1* 0    _                        4S    20S   29o U    754       477     735     O"        t0         -74.1   15.0      7.$   14.9    ?A        S.1       20.         n.e.                          4
C02   Sts.                       in     31     549    474 U"             a;       is       too           t.s    0.5    I1.?   2*.3    5.%    -.          .4;.9      .43.0          -74             -19
Itsl mam  1.                      9I2 2e01    22       S"        221     221     20        297          2.4   42.9    32.9   2i.2    17.0   51.04          0.3         0.
_a1i  how11 all    30    no                              9       355     3*2     Sl*       417         12.3   14.0    ..9       i.1       -   -10.4        0           5.s            I              I
calms_ Oma                        02     79    US1    120        250    ISO      14         to1          2.6   13.0   20.3   41.9        4.1   20.0        0.A       -13.5            -              3
"Ps_  1     _                     0      4      07     I00       22       104    141        20        -22.0   -3.2    7.0   SO.1         9.1     0.         .          *.             -              -
tri 1Mo _l to o                   is    43      00      44        5        4       -                   11.9   30.6   $3.3   10.2   19.0         S.           -           -            -              -
Sswal ah                           0     Is    11       32         4      74       13     ....           5.0     4.7    2.3   24.2   23.9   194            2.9        20.0           $2              9
Slat.  sme,.                      22    25    n?        44                 A      It9       44          -.42    -1.3   -0.s    ,.1    -3.0  -7.1         -U.4        *2.5           -35 
"u sn Mam"  IN                   1a    2e    74         32        so               0        59          0.7      3.4    4.0    J.2       2.0    2.4        2.0         1.9            4              0
1t.s.74  cbma1              _      -.         __1      411   __a   __U   -.4k                27       -.A   --U    -44    -.-          -.A  .44          -AA       .Jk.a             4              A
uT&.LJAW                  s.747  3.802  5.3.  11.212    1S,107  13.23   1.0e   2 A/  2.19        -30.1  -201.1  173.   23.    -51.0  470.5   t 00.5           1.0.32.           23             2o
ka1mi2  Pus.2                  1.23 1.2 4,30  2.*0,   23.20    3.10   2.a,    3.204  /   n.e.          -79.2  173.0    0J.0  193.1  -20.0  -74.0         .20.0       -74A            -I
0
7 4
OQY
91
S



SRI LANKA
2~~~~~~~~~~A1
Secu Zuustrlal bevul.u. PRoleet                                             hpg2 ot 2 is
P rforuuic. ot Hajo Stat. 1.duatrbl Cerpor.gi.., 1977-54
~.owat  (los.)                                             1933
Pro uction    Capital lestmet          Cpecity
Luguner                                      J§jI      1962     j2U ml  )194 aI                           eaWlAorkWr  i                  ji
(to '000)        (as 1000)
Ce~lom Petroleum                        5,190    5,09    5,944    6,186    6,232              1,413               136                 56
Dationml Textile,                       3,573    8,042    8,647    9,128      *..                90                36                 se
state near Hillint                        665      617       600     U.S.
Sri tlu Cet                             5,959    7,507    5,152    4,875    na..                IS                16U                 60
Celon Steel                             2,243    2,214    2,305    2,230    1,749               1t5               110                 25
Sri Lank  Tyre                          1,921    1,68f    1,904    1,374      *.S.              153                95                 60
National Paper                          4.604    4,36      4,562    4,340     n.e.               58               211                5s
Ceylon Ceramice                         5,819    6,136    7,234    7.255      n.e.               23                29                  96
CeylOn P1  woo                          3,604    3,519    3,547    3,700      n.e.               43                41                 55
Sri Lonk& Tobeaco                         956      959       939     n.s.             _-                            - _
Uatiea1 Salt                            1,006    1,055    1,778    1,939        ..                7                39
Stete Erldure                           1,578    1,439    1.315    1,327    1,286                30                35                 30
Ceylon tLetbhe  Products                1,087    1,062    1,070    1,I55    1,179                33                30                  n
ranotbao  Chmical                          244    *35 53                                                          -a                  _a
t@TLMAV UCl                       43,7l1  45,865   45,60   44,550   10,949                 266               8a                   -
aeludiag Petrolm                       38,521   40,056   39,876   38,364    4,n2                 01                8D 
Proisional.
1   Capital inrestuent is defined se capital reserve' &nd  log-t0m  liabilities - acc1elated loe.
J  Estimtee.
Al beclues Natioal Tertile  Corporation ad  State flour Milling Corporstion.  for Textile Cororation cqplete data are
not available. State flout Willing Corporation ceseed willing activities from end-Aupst, 1982.
S/  Irlude  State rlour Willing.                                                                                                                        oo
Vi  Physicl production as percent of nominal pbysical capacity, main products only (wbere approPriste, weeibted) aceording
to their cotribotion to turtover.
n.e. - Sot   aildble.
Bms:re Central Bank of Ceylon; and Ministry of Industries od Scientific Affairs.



_39_                            ANNEX 2-
Page I of lO pages
SRI LA14U
PROPOSED SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FY86 Action Pro8ram:  Public EnterPrise Efficiency
Explaaatoy Notes
The outtine 'Implementation Plan' included with the 'up-dated'
Project Paper infers a distinction between 'skeletal' and 'detailed'
corporate plan but does not suggest any definition.
Corporate Planning procedure set forth in August 1979 for
"Corporate Plan 1980-W4". extended in some cases to "Corporate Plan
1982-86", has been reviewed both in principal and in its practical
application. As a result of this review, the procedure has been
modified in a number of practical aspect and is to be retained, in
this modified form, for "Corporate Plan 1986".
Of necessity, these modifications would have led to changes
in the related information systems. This is being taken as an
opportunity to bring about more significant development-related to
the concept of a "(Management) Information & Control System ".
In the process, information demands on enterprises should be
much diminished and a greater use made of installed computer facilities,
for processing information to produce timely printouts for  enterprise
management and for supervising agencies.
The activities proposed for "Implement4tion Plan : Year ["
subsume these proposals.
It is then expected that, from the process of selecting quantified
targets for CP 1986, there will emerge a recognition of needs and
constraints. It is in addressing these needs and constraints that a
more detailed Corporate Plan will, in each case,evolve. The support
of the PE Cell of MISA will be available to enterprises, to take part
in the evolution of Corporate Plan 1986.
As essential element in corporate success is the ability of
management to respond in a timely and effective manner to each new
development in a changing environment. No Corporate Plan will be
complete which fails to ensure the management skills and resources
to meet this demanding criteria. Particular emphasis vill be attached to
the imlortant tunctiotn of Information Mlaiidgement.



ANNE=  2
-40-                      Page. 2 of 10 pages
In developing performance appraisal and incentive programs,
care will be taken to reject too facile a reliance upon measured
norms and standards,4eclared targets, and reported results.
For ease of reference and the better determination of
priorities, each of the twenty Corporations and GOBUs accountable
to MISA is referred to as an 'enterprise'.  Enterprises have been
arranged in two Groups, the composition of which is as follows :-
Group I -   National Paper Corporation
Ceylon Mineral Sands Corporation
Sri Lanka Tyre Corporation
Ceylon State Hardwdre Corporation
Ceylon Ceramics Corporation
Vijaya Tiles Ltd.
Shaw Industries Ltd.
Noorani Tile Works
Group II -  Ceylon Plywoods Corporation
Paranthen Chemicals Corporation
National Salt Corporation
Ceylon Leather Products Corporation
State tining and Mineral Development Corporation
Sri Lanka Tobacco Industries Corporation
National Packaging Materials Corporation
Ceylon Oxygen Ltd.
State Fertilizer Manutaciuiini kol,rporati*
United Motors Ltd.
Ce("to
Selt Employment Project
Glossary
MISA        -  Ministry of Industries and Scientitic Aftairs
Enterprise  -  A corporation or GOBU accountable to MISA
K.P.I.      -  Key Performance 1ndicator
K.R.A.      -  Key Results Area



Page 3 of 10 pages
-41-
- Low-Performanice Area
M.f.P.      - Management Improvement Program
CP 86       -  Corporate Plan 1986
YMP         -  Variant Monitor Program
Variant     -  A factor beyond the control of management
and one in which changes could greatly
affect operations and results
MIS         -  Management Infcrmation System
miCS        -  Management Information and Control System
CPA         -  Comparative Performance Appraisal



I DP                                 IMI'I .IMENTAnION PROGRAMME                              YEAR  I
QUARTER ENDING 30 SEPTEMBIUR 1985
1. Review existing C.P. principles, guidelines, instructions.
2. Appraisal of activities to date on CP 1980 - 1984,  1982 - 1986.
3. Revision of existing guidelines and procedures, announcement of changes.
4, Select, announce initial range of 12 Key Performance Indicators.
5. Enterprises designate each an Information Manager.
6. Review MICS, supervisory-agency level, establish demands, needs, products, process, uses.
7. Make inventory 4 main categories external controls, MISA enterprises,obtain examples.
. List irksome controls from 1.1.84.
9. Inventory of management resources in "top'* line and staff functions  -  I
t
I
Oo !
I-l
o
O
I,



QUARTER ENDING 31ST DECEMBER 1985
lO. Identify social or non-commercial activities and tunct itisn                                  (roup I
11. Instal costing procedures to distinguish costs of these                                         of   I
12. Amend MICS (management accounts) to separate commercial and social operatioiw                   "   I
13. Discussion selection 8 KPI for Corporate Plan 1986                                              "   I
14. Describe 8 Key Results Areas, name accountable Managers                                         "   I
I5. Trace Corporate Objective (Profitability) Record 1981 - 198S                                    "   I
t6. frace Selected KPI records 1981 - 1985                                                          "   I
17. Propose, discuss, select, Corporate Objective (ProfiLabilit.y%) 198X                            "   I
18. Discuss and select targets against KPI for CP 186, idcit ifiy relevant KRA                      "   I
19. Identify performance problems and constraints in each KRA for (CI 86                            "   I
20. Restate targets (corporate objective. KPI) for CP 1986                                          *   I
21. Identify Low-Performance-Areas (LPA) needing firm-level programs
22. Briefing, orientation, familiarization, all Information Managers
23. Prepare complete CP 1986                                                                             I
24. Prepare outline CP 1986                                                                         "   II
25. Review any existing performance-appraisal and incentive schemes
2b. Id,ntify possible linkage  or interface, with KPI or KRA
2/. Review inhouse MICS each enterprise
28. Examine interaction all existing MICS
29. Summarise, aggregate, information needs new CP procedures                                       MISA
30.    "                         ~             "         "                                          PED
-it. Determine basic monthly inputs, initial on-file needs                                          MISA       ' g
Q2. Design new computer-based system, new programs, to process inputs, produce required outputs                 0
0
b.
o 3
S



Quarter ending December 1985
33. Instal new MICS                                                                                 MISA
34 "                                                                                                Group I
35. Identify sccoroding to categories, main causes of complaints (controls)
36. Review Control procedures, identify main weaknesses
37. Inventory of management resources in "top" line and staff functions                               "   I
38. Identify priority management nee& in such functionb                                               "   I
39. Propose strategy, measures to make good deficiences
40. Complete Capital Restructuring proposals, all enterprises
41. Adopt, declare,privatization guidelines (for private sector participation)
42. Review and re-write Year I Program of Work
43. ApFrove revised Program of Work
44. Declare T.O.R. Comparative Performance Study, Overseas Enterprises



QUARTER ENDING 31 MARCH 1986
45. Identify  Social or non-commercial activities and functions                                Group If
46. Instal costing procedures to distinguish costs of these                                     ,t  [I
47. Instal new MICS                                                                                  If
48. Discussion selection 8 KPI for Corporate Plan 1986                                               I I1
49. Describe 8 Key Results Areas, name accountable Managers                                      " 1
50. Trace Corporate Objective (Ptofitability) Record 1981 - 1985                                 "   11
51. Trace selected KPI records 1981 - 1985                                                       "   U
52. Propose, discuss, select Corporate Objective (profitability %) 1986                         ."  11
53. Discuss and select targets against KPI for CP 86, identify relevant KRA                      "   11
94. [dentify performance problems and constraints in each KRA for CP 8h                            If
55. Restate Targets (corporate objective, KPI) for CP 1986                                       "   1I
56. Identify Low-Performance Areas (LPA) needing firm-level programs                                 If
57. Design six Programs, discuss donor agencies, IDA
58. Establish acceptable standards of performance against KPI/KRA                                "   1
59. Establish acceptable standards of performance in other main tunctions                        t   I
60. Expand to full CP 1986                                                                       "   11
61. Design, discuss, announce guidelines for comparing performance against
CP Targets, reviewing and revising Corporate Plani
62. Establish acceptable variance margins, result from target, CP 1986                           " I
63. Commence monthly monitoring CP results against Plan                                          "   1
64. Monthly monitoring CP results against amended CP 1986                                        "   I
65. Consider possible enterprise-level incentive schemes, draw up outlines
66. Discuss with personnel agencies and Trade Unions                                                          x
b7. Design 3 Pilot Schemes, discuss in detail at enterprise-level                                           0
b8. Review inhouse MICS each enterprise                                                                     o
mE



Quarter ending 31 March 1986
69. Summarise, aggregate, information needs new CP procedures                                      uoll.er pr ses
Io  (nstal New MICS                                                                              Grotup 11
71. Inaugurate trial run new MICS
72. Monthly review MICS operations, adjustments to system
73. Design and introduce procedural improvements in MISA controls
74. Suggest related improvements, to other supervisory agencies
75. Identify desirable changes in external controls, secure assent otther
interested agencies
76. As appropriate, introduce changes for selected enterprises
77. Review enterprise-level impact of new MICS                                                     "   T
78. Identify priority management needs in such tunctionis (Management LPA)                             II
79. Design, introduce relevant MRP (Management Reinforcement Program)                                   I
80. Approval new Balance Sheets,and Capital Investment patterns
81. Design, discuss 5 Pilot Schemes to encourage Private Sector participation
82. Review and revise Programme of Work
83. Approve revised Programme of Work
84. Select enterprises to be represented on Comparative Performance   Study
85. Discuss with Government Agenties, IDA, intended host countries
86. Establish mean of performance records, MISA enterprises, 1981 -1985
0
fi-.
0 
tD 
Fta
U



QUARTER ENDING 30 JUNE 1986
87. Instal new MICS (management accounts) to separate comgiuercial  inl'
social operations                                                                        Group 11
88. Select and launch programs
89..Establish acceptable standards of performance agauist KPI/KRA                                  "   11
90.     "          "          "             "       in other main tutaCtions                       "   I1
to        et      variance margins result from target CP 1980                              "   1
91. Commence monthly monitoring CP results against Plan                                            "   11
92.     "    quarterly review CP 1986 and amendment                                                "   1
93. Monthly monitoring CP results against amended C? 1986                                          "   11
94. Instal Pilot Schemes monitor progress (appraisal and incentive schemes)
95. As appropriate obtain higher authority for introduction of changes in control systems
96. Reinforce MICS to meet reduction in control
97. Review enterprise level impact of new MICS                                                     "   II
98. Review value of new MICS to supervisory agencies
99. Design, introduce, relevant MRP (Masnagement Reinforcement Programme)                          "   IJ
100. Full complement 'top' minagers at post, deficiencies temporurily mtalde g-iid
101. Design, instal, needed modifications to MICS, MISA level
10e.    o       *        n           t      enterprise level, inhouse needs
104. Introduce new capital structure, redefine Corporate Plans and Targets                          "   A
105. Select S enterprises for introduction pilot scheme (private sector particilpation)
106. Introduc.e instal pilot schemes (private sector)
107. Select, announce, 12 Key variables                                                                                  x
lUt. Discuss, select, 4 variables per enterprise                                                                         °
109. Draft year 2 Programme of Work                                                                                      0
110. Approve Year 2 Programme of Work
11). (omplete arrangements confirm to all parties (C.P.A)                                                                X
l12.Departure of CPA team



FOLLOW-UP ACTIVITIES TO BE STARTED IN YEAR II
113,  Commence quarterly review CP 1986 and amendment                                         (roup 11
114.  Review results of Pilot Schemes
115.  Monitor effects of reduction in controls
116.  Review results of diminished  controls, increased iniormation
117.  Monitor operations amended system
118.  Discuss, select. 4 variables per enterprise                                                "  fl
119.  Design. instal Key Variable Monitor System                                                 "  I
120.     to     "i "                                                                                I 1
121.      n           required changes in MICS, including new conputer programs
122.  Commence operations Trial basis VMS
123.  Review and revision of CP 86 against major changes in Key Variables
124.  Review operations VMS, amend as required quarterly
10
tD
eQ



-49-                              ANNEX 3
SRI LANKA
Second Industrial Development ProJect
ztructure of Iterest Rates Ir 1Sr
Dujrring the Period 1979  -1985 I/
(in per cfgt pe anmum)
31 DeXewter               1979       1980       1981       1982      1983      1984       1985
Central Bank Rate a         10.0       12.0      .14.0       14.0      13.0      13.0      11.0
overnenut Treasury Bill
- Primary market          9.0       13.0       13.0       13.0      12.0      14.0       12.0
- Secondary market        -         -          15.25      13.25     12.5      14.2       12.5
C=ercial Banks
L,oo R;ates:
Inter Bank Call loans     5.0-9.0  10.0-14.0  10.0-14.0  10.0-14.5  10.0-15.0  10.0-15.0  12.0
Secured loans and
overdrafts              12.5-20.0  15.0-28.0  15.0-30.0  16.0-30.0 16.0-30.0  17.0-30.0 17.0-20.0
Deposit Rates:
Savins Deposits           5.0-9.0  10.0-14.0  10.0-14.0  10.0-14.5  10.0-15.0  10.0-15.0  10.0-14.0
Tine Deposits
- 6 unths               11.0-12.0  15.0-18.0  15.0-21.5  13.0-18.2  13.0-25.0  13.0-19.0  12.0-13.0
- 12 mmths              14.0-15.0 20.0       20.0-22.0  15.0-22.0 16.0-25.0 14.0-22.0 13.0-14.0
KtIt tI(Xl S-XIV1Ilkmk DepXoit I;ltes
Sviugs -eposits          8.4       12.0       12.0       12.0      12.0      12.0      12.0
-   -2-uLith fixl depoitui  12.0-18.0 15.0-20.0  15.0-22.0  15.0-22.0 14.0-18.0 14.0-18.0 15.0
- lOYear Savings
Certificates            11.0      11.0       11.0       11.0      11.0      11.0       11.0
Lending Rates of Credit Instituios
State Mortage and
lvesteit Bank           5.0-18.0  5.0-2D.0  12.0-24.0  12.0-24.0  12.0-24.0  12.0-24.0  10.0-IZO
- DFOC                    16.0      17.0       17.0       17.0      14.0      14.0      14.0
- Nll;                    12.0      17.0       17.0       17.0      14.0      14.0      14.0
.f The rare charged by the Central Bk   advu     o                 for ther   poary  iu
purposes.
1/ Applicable March 31, 1986.



-50-                       Jfl~WA  4
Page 1 of 8 pages
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
Basic Data
1.   Date of Establishment                              1955
2.   Capitalization
Authorized and Paid-up capital : Rs100 million ($3.7 million
equivalent)
Major Shareholders aa of 31 March 1986
Per Cent
Government owned banks
- Bank of Ceylon                               19.5
- Peoples 3ank                                 19.5
FMO  - Netherlands Development Finance
Company (Netherlands)                        12.5
DEC  - German Finance Company for Investment
in Developing Countries (West Germany)       10.0
International Finance Corporation                    9.9
Hatton National Bank                                 4.0
Uni-Walkers Ltd.                                     3.4
Commercial Bank of Ceylon Limited                    3.0
Cyril Gardiner Limited                               1.0
786 other shareholders                              17.2
3.  Operations (Re Million)
1982/83   1983/84   1984/85  1985/86
Net Approvals:
- Foreign currency loans              27.0      37.8      97.1      363.0
- Local currency loans                23.2     216.4     218.1      287.0
- Equity investments                   5.9      12.4      13.7       10.1
Total Approvals                       56.1     266.6     328.9      660.0
Disbursements                        147.0    T34.3      2e3.0      408.0
4.   Profitability
(Rs million)
Year ending 31 March                1982783   1983/84   1984/85  1985(86
Gross income                          92.9     107.2     111.4      153,0
Expenses                              73.5      87.1      89.4    -134.9
Net income after tax                  15.0      14.4      16.7      28,1



-51-                        ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 8 pages
5.   Financial Position
(Rs million)
31_Marh1983                               1984      1985      1986
Asset
Current assets                       110.5     138.6       69.3     286.4
Loan portfolio, net                  506.8     556.8      735.6   1,088.4
-Other assets                          66.2      73.7       93.3     120.2
Total Assets                         683.5     769.       898.2   1,495.0
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities                   18.5      31.0       36.0      33.8
Borrowings                           521.4     584.8      699.2   1,267.0
Equity                               143.6     153.3      163.0     194.2
Total Liabilities and Equity         683.5     769.1      898.2   1,493.0
$ million equivalent                 25.3       28.5       33.3      54.4
6.   Key Performance Indicators (for FY1985/86)
Return on average equity                        9.9X
Interest spread                                 3.61
Earnings spread                                 3.91
Debt/equity ratio                              6.5:1
7.   DFCC's Lending Interest Rates  -  14 per cent for all categories



-  _5a-                        AINNEX 4
Page 3 of 8 pages
DFCC FINANCING OPERATIONS - PROJECTIONS (FY 85/86 - 90/91)
(Rs. Millions)
---Actual----  Estimate -------P r o j e c t i o n s -------
FY ended 31 March             83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87Z88  §8/89   89L90   22L91
GROSS APPROVAL
1. Large scale loans           238.6   261.7   273.0   305.0   350.0   403.0   463.0   533.0
2. Small scale loans            15.6    43.7    97.0   120.0   140.0   160.0   180.0   200.0
3. Working capital loans         -       8.0    84.0   150.0   200.0   250.0   300.0   350.0
4. Loans for leasing             -       -       55.0      -       -        -       -        -
5. Financial leases              -        1.8    25.0    60.0    81.0    93.0   106.0   122.0
6. Total (1 - 5)               254.2   315.2   534.0   635.0   771.0   906.0  1049.0  1205.0
7. Share Investments            13.0    13.7    10.1    25.0    15.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
8. Total (6 + 7)               267.2   328.9   544.1   660.0   786.0   916.0  1059.0  1215.0
COMMITMENTS
9. Large scale loans           208.6   233.9   239.0   274.0   315.0   363.0   417.0   480.0
10. Small scale loans            14.1    38.9    81.0   108.0   126.0   144.0   162.0   180.0
11. Working capital loans         -       7.0    80.0   150.0   200.0   250.0   300.0   350.0
12. Loans for leasing             -       -       55.0      -       -        -       -        -
13. Financial leases              -        1.6    25.0    60.0    81.0    93.0   106.0   122.0
14. Total (10 - 13)             222.7   281.4   480.0   592.0   722.0   850.0   985.0  1132.0
15. Share Investments            13.0    13.7    10.1    25.0    15.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
16. Total (14 + 15)             235.7   295.1   490.1   617.0   737.0   860.0   995.0  1142.0
anus=        sauna   nan.   nuns.  annum    nun    un        n
DISBURSEMENTS
17. Large scale loans           115.7   218.2   248.0   259.0   291.0   335.0   385.0   443.0
18. Small scale loans             9.7    24.0    56.0    92.0   115.0   133.0   151.0   169.0
19. Working capital loans         -       7.0    42.0   150.0   200.0   250.0   300.0   350.0
20. Loans for leasing             -       -       45.0    10.0      -        -       -        -
21. Financial leases              -        1.6    10.0    70.0    81.0    93.0   106.0   122.0
22. Total (18 - 22)             125.4   250.8   401.0   581.0   687.0   811.0   942.0  1084.0
23. Share investments             9.0    12.1      7.5    25.0    15.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
24. Total (22 + 23)             134.4   262.9   408.5   606.0   702.0   821.0   952.0  1094.0
WAM:ssh



DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON   (26 March 1980)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
(Rs. Million)
----Actual----    'stimate ------P r o j e c t e d-
For.year ended  31st Marcb                    1984      1985       1986       1987      1988       1989      1990       1991
Intenest Income - Large Scale Loans           78.1      81.6      106.4      135.0     159.0      182.0     199.0      215.0
Small Scale Loans           6.4        6.4      12.0       21.0      33.0       45.0      59.0       73.0
Working Capital Loans        -          -        4.6       16.0      35.0       52.0       67.0      81.0
LoaDs for Leasing            -          -        0.3        6.4       4.5        2.3        1.1       0.3
Net Dividend                                   4.8        5.0       5.4        6.3        7.3       7.8        8.3       8.7
Profit on leasing oiperations                   -         0.1       1.4       10.2      23.3       34.5      43.4       50.3
Interest on special reserve fund
Investments                                 2.2    ~ .G          2.4        1.8       1.6        1.8       1.8        1.8
Income on money market operations             12.8       12.2      18.0       32.5      32.5       34.1       37.4      42.2
Commitment charges/Front end fees/legal
fees                                        1.9       2.1        1.8        2.7       3.2        3.3       3.4        3.7
Income from Merchant Banking & LC operations  -            -        0.1        0.9       0.9        1.0        1.1       1.1
Rent Income                                           -              -         0.5       2.8        2.8        2.8       2.8
Comission on Insurance                          -          -        0.1        0.5        1.0       2.0        2.5       3.5
Other Incoae                                   0.9        1.2       0.5        0.5       0.5        1.0        1.2       1.3
107.1     111.4      153.0     234.3      304.8     369.6      428.0     484.7
Finance Charges
Bank of Ceylon loan interest                   1.6        1.1       0.8        0.5       0.3        0.1         -         -
Centrallank Refinance loan interest           28.0       27.2      27.4       24.1      .20.5      17.2       13.7       9.6
IDA/NDB-fl   II Refinance loan Interest        0.1       0.4        2.5        7.4      13.7       20.5      27.3       33.8
183 Loan Interest                              0.6        0.5       0.4        0.3       0.2        0.1         -         -
DPCC Development Bond Interest                  -          -       12.4       24.       24.0       24.0       24.0      24.0
IDA lot and 2nd Line Loan Interest             9.1        8.5       7.1        5.e       4.8        3.9        3.1       2.6      'U'
ADD 1st and 2nd Line Loan Interest            14.6       19.6      18.1       16.0       13.9      12.0       10.4       8.8         f
IDA 3rd Line Loan Interest (IDP-I)              -         4.6      18.0       30.9      34.5       34.5       33.2      30.5
PHD Line Loan Interest                         2.2        3.1       5.8        5.9       5.9        5.9        5.7       5.1
ADD 3rd Line Loan Interest                      -          -         -         6.6       19.9      26.5       25.4      23.2
DEG Loan Interest                                          -         -         3.3       10.1      13.4       13.4      12.8      ao
Interest on IDA/ADB & other foreign                                                                                               r
borrowinrs                  -          -         -          -        5.4       23.3       50.3      81.4
Interest on DFCC Bonds/Local currency loans   -                                6.0      13.5       19.5      24.0       24.0      0
Credit Guarantee Commission                     -         0.1       0.2        0.5       0.5        0.7        0.7       0.9
56.2      65.1       92.7     131.3      167.2     201.6      231.2      256.7
Gross Profit                                  50.9       46.3      60.3      103.0     137.6      168.0      196.8     228.0
2>bjsg 5p                                                      urn..      owl*= u11..         .souse     =.a.r nw..a



PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT   (26 March 1986)
(Rs. Million)
--- Actual ---    Esluate -     P  r  o j e c t e d -----
Por year ended 31st March                     1984       1985      1986       1987      1988        1989       1990       1991
Griss Profit                                  50.9       46.3      60.3      103.0      137.6      168.0     196.8      228.0
Oveo&ead expenses                              9.0       10.7      13.0       18.0       20.0       22.5       25.0       28.0
Loan interest written off                      8.9        3.9       4.5       10.0       11.0       10.0       13.0       16.0
Spfific provision for bad loans              12.5        9.3       7.1       10.4       12.2       13.3       15.6       15.0
Depreciation                                   0.4        0.4       2.7        3.0       4.3        4.3        4.5         4.5
Sotal expenditure                             30.8       24.3      27.3      41.4       47.5        50.1       58.1       63.5
Profit before taxation                        20.1       22.0      33.0      61.6       90.1      117.9      138.7       164.5
Less: Income tax                               5.7        5.3       4.9       12.0       18.4      25.2        31.5       40.8
Profit after taxation                         14.4       16.7     28.1       49.6       71.7       92.7      107.2       123.7
APPROPRIATIONSS:
Reserve for doubtful Loans                      -         -         7.4       12.0       16.3       25.2       31.6       4C.8
Dividend declared                             10.0       10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0        10.0       10.0       10.0
Building Reserve                               3.0        3.0       4.0       10.0       10.0        -          -           -
Retained Earnings                              1.4        3.7       6.7       17.6       33.4       57.5       65.6       72.9
14.4      16.7      28.1       49.6       71.7       92.7      107.2      123.7         ,
0....      W..s   . ... *mm  ..m          mm..        umw.ma 
0
WAM: sob
IPAss



DEVELOPMENiT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON         (26 Mrrch 1986)
BALANCE SHEET
(Re. Million)
---- Actual---       Estimate   -       P r   o 3 e   c     e d        -
As at 31st March          1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989        1990       1991
Loans - Large Scale (for fixed assets)    542.2         707.0       913.0    1102.0    1298.0    1499.0    1621.0    1753.0
Working Capital                        -          7.0       41.0      159.0      275.0      376.0      464.0       551.0
Loans for Leasing                      -          -         45.0       40.0       20.0       11.0        4.0         -
Small Scale (for fixed assets)       46.6       63.0       112.0      191.0      282.0      378.0      474.0      583.0
Leased equipment (at cost)                                 1.6       10.8       74.1      133.7      184.8      223.2      257.4
588.8      778.6    1121.8    1566.1    2008.7    2448.8    27b6.2    3144.4
Lesat eon. Provision for doubtful loans   11.4           16.5         -          -          -          -          -          -
Specific provision for bad loans    20.6           26.3       33.4       43.8       56.0       69.3        84.9       99.9
556.8      735.8    1088.4    1522.3    1952.7    2379.5    2701.3    3044.5
Share Investments (net)                       63.6       73.6        77.1       98.1      109.1      115.1      121.1      127.1
Special Reserve Fund Investment               15,0       15.0        15.0       15.0       15.0       15.0       15.0       15.0
Fixed Assets (net)                             5.2        13.4       22.0       32.0       37.2       33.4       29.4       25.4
Loans to staff                                  4.9        6.2        6.5        6.8        7.2        1.6        8.1         8.6
Current Assets
Debtors and deposits                          1.7         1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0
Accrued Income                               35.1       ,10.0       11.0       12.0       16.0       19.0       25.0       27.0
Motey market Investments                     70.0       40.0      250.0      250.0       250.0      275.0      300.0      350.0
Cash and bank balances                       12.4         2.7       24.4       20.3       22.7       25.9       20.9       26.3
119.2       53.7      286.4      283.3      289.7      320.9      346.9      404.3
Total Assets                                 764.7      897.7    1495.4    1957.5    2410.9    2871.5    3221.8    3624.9
*-Won      "wMs      ==nw       "=memo                "=Mae=    mmo-neww     Vwe=-===
VAm:sshum
N04A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
`4"AF4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G



DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON         (26 March 1986)
BALANCE SHEET                                   (Rs. Million)
- Actual---  Estimate -- P r o j o c t e d-
As at 31st March of :                      1984      .1985       1986       1987       1988       1989       1990       1991
Capital and Reserves :
Share Capital                           100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Special Reserve                           15.0       15.0       15.0       15.0       15.0       15.0      15.0        15.0
building Reserve                          13.0       16.0      20.0        30.0      40.0       40.0       40.0       40.0
Reserve for doubtful loans                 -          -        23.9       35.9       54.2       79.4      111.0       151.8
Retained earnings                        25.3       29.0       35.7       53.3       86.7      144.2      209.8      282.7
153.3     160.0       194,6      234.2      295.9      378.6      475.8      589.5
Long Term Liabilities :
Govt. of Sri Lanka Loan                   12.8       11.7       10.6       9.5        8.4         7.3       6.2         5.1
Bank of Ceylon Loan                        9.2       6.7        4.5        2.9         1.6       0.4          -          -
DFCC DevelopmentBonds (Ist&2nd Issue)   -              -      343.0      343.0      343.0      343.0      343.0       343.0
Central Bank Refinance Loans            227.0      219.7      243.8      221.9      200.8      186.0      137.5        96.2
IDA/NDB - SMI II Refinance loans          0.3        8.0       62.4      147.9      244.2      342.8      438.1      527.9
National Savings Bank Loan                 5.2        4.2        3.2        2.2        1.3       0.4          -          -
IDA lot and 2nd Lines of Credit         104.8       94.2       77.3       64.3       52.5       41.8       34.2       29.8
ADD lot and 2nd Lines of Credit          175.9     207.2       184.8     160.9      138.8      120.6       103.8       87.1
IDA 3rd Line of Credit (IDP-1)           13.2       86.8      273.6      345.0      345.0      345.0      318.5      292.0
PHO Line of Credit                       35.4       60.1       63.5       63.5       63.5       63.5       57.1        50.7
IBRD Loan                                  1.0       0.6        0.3        0.1          -          -          -          -
ADB 3rd Line of Credit                      -          -          -      137.5      275.0      275.0      252.1      229.2
DEC Line of Credit                          -          -          -       82.5      165.0      165.0      165.0       151.2
IDA/ADB & other foreign currency
Loans                                   -          -          -          -       108.0      359.0      648.0      980.0       , 
DPCC Bonds/Local currency Loans             -                            100.0      125.0      200.0      200.0      200.0   
584.8     699.2    1267.0    1681.2    2072.1    2449.8    2703.5    2992.2
_ ~~~~~-  -   o0
Current Liabilities
Provision for taxation                    2.4        0.5        2.0        4.8        7.4       10.1        12.6       16.3
Sundry Creditors                         14.2       28.0       21.8       27.3       25.5       23.0       19.9        16.9      X
Dividend payable  I/                     10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0        10.0       10.0
26.6       38.5       33.8      42.1       42.9       43.1        42.5       43.2
764.7     897.7    1495.4    1957.5    2410.9    2871.5    3221.8    3624.9
~Ib4      NA:  1/  A hixher dividend would be considered in the future.



DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OP CMON
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
-Actual-----  tstimate   -           P r o j e c t e d -------------------
1983/84   1984/85   .985/86   1986/87   1981/08   1988/89   1989/90   1990191
A) Profitability
1. Administrative Expenses
(excluding depreciation)/
Average total assets            (X)      1.23      1.26       1.08       1.04      0.92       0.85       0.82       0.82
2. Adminlstrative Expenses
(including depreciation)/
Average total assets            (M)      1.29      1.31       1.30       1.22       1.11      1.01       0.97       0.95
3. Net Income/Average total
assets                          (X)     1.97       1.98       2.33       2.87      3.28       3.51       3.52       3.61
4. Net Income/Average equity       (S)      9.48      9.79      15.14      23.13     27.05      27.48      25.09      23.22
5. Interest Spread 1/              (X)      5.0       2.8        3.6        4.8       4.8        4.7        4.5        4.5
6. Earnings Spread 2/              (X)      5.0       3.1        3.9        S.2       5.6        5.7        5.8        6.0
B) Liquidity :
1. Interest coverage ratio 3/
(Times)                 1.3        1.4        1.4       1.5        1.5        1.5        1.6       1.6
2. Debt/Service coverate ratio 4/
(Times)                 1.1        1.3        1.3       1.6        2.0        2.4        2.3       2.4
3. Collection ratio-interest 5/  (X)    67.2         67.1       83.3       86.0      88.7       90.1       89.0       89.1
4. Collection ratio-inatalment 6/(S)    63.1         71.4       76.9       86.5      87.0       85.3       83.0       81.8
S. Collection ratio-laterest &
instalments  (2)    65.1        80.8      82.9       87.2       82.7       87.1      84.9       84.0
C) Financial Position:                                                                                                              O
1. Debt/Equity ratio                      1:3.8    1:4.37    1:6.5        1:7.0     1:7.0      1:6.5      1:5.7      1:5.1
VAN: ssh



-58-
Page 1 of 5 pages
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Basic Dita
1.  Date of EatWUW4met                                               JWam7 1979
2.
huclwized capl: Re 2.000 zIllUn ($74 udllion equivat)
Paidp Capital   : Re  600 vOO  ($22 111lim equb.alt)
As of 31         MO81S
caitdm tic In               T o t a l
casnh    FPoixm    hat       imt        Per Cat
abezmmt of Sri La                400.0           -           400.0          66.7
Cwouumt~ badM
CWAul Bisk of Ceylo             25.0           75.0         100.0         16.7
-epl's Bek                      12.5           37.5          50.0          83
B a of Ceylon                   12.5           37.5         50.0           8.3
45X0.0         150.0        600.0         10.0
3.  Fkmcil Asststn  - Agmyals, Cmud           and DIAburewmte
*)et of 1a^lti )
UP to 31 Decwr 1986              Approvals      Caiudm i
Diret lan                             459.9             397.5            324.3
Equity lnvestaens                     .27.4             44.5             34.4
SreI and udmUweA  la Iusty
rf C    lOa                          102.0            102.0            38.0
625.3            544.0            396.7
$ i114, equival=                       23.2              20.1            14.7
4.  Pffi±abilt
(US mimi)
Audited                    uimzdited
1983                       1984
Cross inun                         98.5                      235.3
Emses                              82.8                      124.7
Neot I                           UK 7                        110.6



-59-                            AN=  5
Page 2 of 5 pages
5.  Facal Positmx
(Rs ndlflmi)
--  hdi|ted                 LJadie
31 Dec. 1984           3D f  198
Assets
Qxrent assets                                854                   601
Portfoljo, net                               801                 1,295
Otter assets                                  16                    10
Total Assets                            1.671
L4abIlties and Equity
Qzrrent liaiities                           114                   -
Borrudng                                     44 7                  689
Equity                                      1,109                 1,217
Totdl i4abilities and Eqty
$m 1iiewquiva1a                           61.0                 70
6.  Y(&-y verfonweec Indicutors
(As of December 31, 1986)
Returm On averc%e equity                 9 .2 per cent
Intecest spread                          6 .0 per cent
Faznings spread                         to .4 per cent
Debt/equity ratiD                          7:1
7.  NDBSL's Lendin Interest Rates (per cent peru
TAs of December 33, 1985)
Foreig, alr ,
Direct loan                           14.0
Saul and mediwa-sce industry
refinancing
Up to Rs l,000                    7.0
Ra 100,000 - Rs 500,000           7.0
Over Rs 500,000                   7.0
1i     t (Xirru'1cy
Direct loan                           14.0



F31W' FRM aS W                 "a 1985 T 1990
.__  _ _ .,_____.________________________ -   ,    ,  .. 1983  1984    1985     1906     1987    1988     1989     2990
Irtereat f&vm nvetment, of Surplus P#,ds            04.1    80.8    62.0    80.0   107.0   126.0   140.0  l12.0
Inami fra m2obt.t fUsanaim
Wan interast realised & due                         93.7   127.3   154.0   190.0  230,0          1.0   313.0   361.0
pieat FiPone LOWIs                                   -       2.3      8.0    16.0   20.0        24.0    29.0    33.0
odntmet 16s                                          1.4     1.8      2.0      2.0    2.0        3.0   -3.0       3.0
The     .1 --     IPLfnm ncnSagSd                    -        -       1.0      7.0   23.0       47.0    71.0    85.0
frot aid fee, Divid,. s9ndzy In=,,
Umenwiting, sycactn, Staff is etc                  3.1      6.1     4.0      4.0    4.0        5.0     6,0      6.0
ThonEO s{r h
Intarest - Sefinancd  an                            15.2    13,0    15.0    25.0   42.0         57.0    72.3     8.1
Grant fru Q       t1'SC                              1.0     4.0      1.0      1.0    1.0       1.0      i.0      1.0
btZIr                                              198.5   235.3   247.0   325.0  429.0    534,0   635.3   722.
tro   _s                                      13.6    16.1    19.7    22.6   26.0          30.0   34.0    39.0             g
FrorLsui for dmuubtl debts                          38.1    65.0    61.2    53.0   47.0         66.0   72.0    81.0
intert an G5. Loon  - AO                            6.6    11.2    17.0    22.0   22.0          20.0   17.0    14.0
1D (1401 CZ)                   -       1.3    10.0    20.0   26.0         27.0   24.0    21.0
Otbs (Pr aosd Line of
Credit-Direct Leding)        -       -       1.0    10.0   30.0         60.0   9S.0   134.0
SIUh (942C 0 1182 CE)         18.5    21.0    26.0    38.0   54.0         59.0   55.0    47.0
UKIMA C(Prqpud Lim of
credit Uef.nsnoe zllnug)     -       -        -       0.2    4.0        17.0    39.0    62.0
interest on   11 Dn* llefinac Lonons                4.7      S.8      7.0      8.0    9.0       11.0   13.0    15.0
Intrest o bomdnq frcu G*vt C oter CMr1al Sanks    -           -        -      20.0   52.0       85.0    99.0    82.0
pwvio forDptcatJc   of Thxd Aestm                    0.5     0.6      1.0      1.0    2.0         7.0    7.0      7.0         .>
L aI  w  F                                1.0      4.0      1.0     1.0    1,0         1.0     1.0     1.0         o 
ta epunitne                                         83.0   125.0   143.9   195.8   273.0        383.0   456.0   503.0         w
PrOfit Sofa  TA                                   1US.5   110.3   103.1   129.2  156.0          11.0   179.3    29.1          o
Add Pgf1it G1 e  fufimed                             1.3      0.6     2.3      3.6    4.8         6.0    7.8      3.1
Ad_jiuts A&VJ/s                                  0.2      0.4      -        -      -          --
tess hpfsla3istlma -   _9sezw.                      69.4    02.0    656       92.0 1n..0        114.0   1.o    179.0
-  widwx! 6W                    27.0    27.0    36.0    360    36.0          36.0   36.0    36_0
Prfit & Idm awedfooinrd                              02 *3            3.6      4.8    6.8        7.6     3.1      7.2
7,4.85_
7*4*0



98 52
a  a     P     s      Rm O SI IM
1R81D. BJMIM      W  AS AT 31ST         195LS - 1990 S   _TW  CU 1-L  8Asms
1983     1984     198s     1986     1987      298      1989    1990
_-   -                                                   .  .-=
DWm flW IUmaLD  - .             F
Pitnect loa  - not yet fallal I s                658.5    864.0   1111.0   1413.0   1724.0   2025.0   2364.0  Z7.440
PX. Fin. I    - not yet talsi dae                  7.1     30.3     92.3    131.3    165.3    190.3    228.3   263.3
ACMUiM4      x- not yet fta1     due               1.2      5.1      B.O      9.0      2.0      13.0    rS.c    I*o
(nvesaut in Sqiity - at  Kt                       23.6     57.9     81.9    100.9    121.9    144.9    170.9       7.9
P!oject Dsve1qu   tliUty AMwns.                    3.0      3.0      6.0      9.0      12.0    1S.0      18.0    21.0
SulMUUstary Pinancig Sd                            -        -       19.0     86.0    239.0    433.0    598.o  £65.0
Ar 8r - MWtabnxts                                 23.8     41.0      36.0     35.0     42.0     50.0     65.0    72.0
Arrests - Interest                                27.9     63.3     85.0    104.0    109.0    131.0    f4.0   i87.0
bta1l                                            745.1   1064.6   1439.2   1088.2   2424.2   3002.2   3593.2  4145.2
les Prowision for dIul debts eto                 (62.8)  (127.8)  (189.0)  (242.0)  (289.0)  (355.0)  (427.0) (W508.0
met                                              682.3    936.8   1250.2   1646.2   2135.2   2647.2   3166.2  3637.2
minmmw !w~z   - ASMMUYT1 emamm
capital l    c,.mt & Invstent Co mpq d             -       10.0     6.0    100.0    100.0 lO   I.0    100.0   100.0
ziwEMwv pmro  - gm  rim AMM
Retlamxma toms not of pmnliua                    123.1    104.0    191.0    43S.0    672.0        .O   1206.0  1169.0
Accrued Intotwt                                    3.6      3.1      3.0      5.0       9.5     13.2     17.1    19.0
126.7    107.1    194.0    440.0    681.S    910.2    123.1  188.0
nw_ni Mo - BN ;m
Banik.Depoeta                                    418.2    419.4    482.0    697.0    872.0   962.0   1069.0  2154.0
A*ormd Intereat                                   46*9     20*2     15.0     20.0      26.0     32.0     35.0    38.0
. -                                              L50.0      0O            -             -        -        -        -
Fin  Aset.
TOWaFi,s  Assts - not of Dwcat.al                  2.1      5.8     52.8     808    109.8    1038        97.8    91.8
NMt C0*5t Assets                                  26.9     20.0     11.6      13.0     14A5     27.5     19.9    21.1
Le Prq_os  Divid                                  .0)   (127.0)   (36.0)   (36.0)   (36.0)   (36.0)   (36.o)  (36.0)
Not                                               (0.1)    (7.0)   (24.4)   (23.0)   (21.5)   (l8S)   (16.1)   4.9)
1426.1   1642.3   2029.6   2961.0   3903.0   4756.7   557.0  6319.1 
0
7.4.85                                                                                             Vi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



NrMT!OL DJVEI0V?M PMK Cfi AU! IVWM                                            gOS2
,iA17M-M    Sam M AT An MB   195 - 199
2. SMIN! (U 8rE CPJ? g    . RV!  6 L  1   DE      R I=          213 MML AS=l5
1983   1984   1965   1986   1967   1968   199   1990
a' -ried siare oa'ital
20 Mlion shares of Re 100/- each
I,nitial. Ca$trtAM to SM    gWtal                                           600.0  600.0  600.0  600.0  600.0  6O00O  600.0  600.
!%     l General & Speci  We8Y6 ire lou5i  B*dity Fund                      395.8  453.0  518.8  610.8  78.8   42.0  990.8 1169.8
Ms3 Psofit & LOW Aumnt Dal                                          0.6    2.3    3.6    4,8    6.8    7.6    3.1    7.2
SKI Pund profit,                                                   29.4   54.3   54.3   H4S3   54.3   54.3   54.3   54.3
rotal                                                                       425.8  509.6  576.7  669.9  79.9  904.9 208.2 1231.3
7btal Shnvh3IeIu fund                                                      1025,8 1109.6 1176.7 1269    9.9 1549 1648.2 1831.3
ta,m TMtw
IDT/OL Loa  to SW pmd
Rpw Lon MOM (942 CE)                                                     204.3  22.6  220.0  380.0  100.0  130  200.0   70.0
Aoodd Inteest tberx at 9%                                                39.8   38.7    4.6    4.6    3.6    3.6    2.6    1.6
Rm  Loam  MsL (1182 CB)                                                   10.0   30.1  144.2  414.2  635,2  682,2  590.2  496.2
Acusd int        thsrec at 13, 110, 70                                     0.9    2.6    9.6   29.6   67.6   11.S   11.5    9.5
Prxoaed 005L Loan (SKI Fun)                                                -      -      -      3.0  109.O  373.0  738.0 1030.0
AoCrec I*tArast ta  at 7%                                                  -      *      -      0.2    4.2   21.2   60.2  122.2
A        Loan                                                                82.7  134.2  191.2  238.2  223.2  188.2  163.2  138.2
Accrued interest therem at 12  6 9t                                           9.4   20.6   37.6    6.6    6.6    6.6    S.6    4.6
tral Bank of OqYlon - RefUnue                                                50.9   52.5   56.5   64.5   77.5   93.S  232.5  133.5
XDM     Loan (1401 Ce)                                                      -      26,0  148.0  224.0  247.0  235.0  203.0  171.0
~Aed Interest  t*oxeo  at 11%                                                 -      1.2   11.2   31.2   57.2    7.0    6.0    5.0
Otbw   Foreigo Low                                                            -      -     23.0  154.0  395.0  694.0 1033.0 2405.0
AocuSd nterest  theXeon at 11%                                                -             1.0   11.0   41.0  11O  196.0  330.0
DowAng for GV_rsmet and othe CVac&al loon at 14%                                    - -    -    313.0  48.0  696.0  696.0  43S.O
Accrue Interesft tbomme                                                       -      -!     -      -       -               
Tatal tLdre PVd                                                             397.9  5Z.S  846.9  684.1 20.1 1332.8 3917.6 4353,8 ;
Qmnt MIFP                                                                     2.4    5.0    6.0    7.0    0.0    9.0    9.0    9.0 S
TO?L                                                                        1426.1. 1642.l 29.6 2961.0 3903.0 4756.75 57.0 6U.1 
70400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.  ,,-,   ,  .                     .,       o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
_7- .4_.8,,5"_.-x
7e4J1S                                                                                                eg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



_63_
ANNEX 6
SRI LANKA
PROPOSED SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance 1/
Institution/                                 Months'll Assistance   Costs 1/
Agency                Details               TA       Training    ($'000)
DFCC            Strategy Implementation         12                    120
Corporate Planning             12                     120
Corporate Banking              12                     120
Operational Upgrading          12                     120
Staff Training                 -                     (200) 2/
48                    480
NDB             Corporate Banking/
Planning Advisor               18                     180
Subsectoral Advisor            18                     180
Portfolio Restructuring        12                     120
MIS/Computerisat ion            6                      60
Training                       -          48           85
54         48         625
Trade and Industrial Policy
(MISA and MOFP)
Project Preparation            82 3/                  300
Facility (NDB)
Productivity Studies           20                     250
MIS/Signalling System          12                     150
Tariff Reform                   6                      60
Incentive Study                12                     120
132                    880
Contingencies
15
234         48       2,000
1/ Assignments would be negotiated within these time and cost limits.
2/ To be provided by ADB.
3/ Includes 48 months of local consultancy.



-64-
ANNEX 7
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP I1)
PROJECTED DISBURSEMENTS
($ Millions)
Credit        TA         Total          X
FY87
81                  0.7                       0.7          4
S2                   2.0         0.3          2.3         15
2.7         0.3          3.0         Ii
wa_         was          Saw         ur
IY88
Si                   0.5         0.5          1.0         20
82                   1.5         0.5          2.0         30
2.0         1.0          3.0          30
PY89
Si                   1.5         0.5          2.0         40
82                   1.8         0.2          2.0         50
3-.3        0.7         4.0          50
FY90
Si                   2.0           -          2.0         60
S2                   3.0           -          3.0         75
5.0           -          5.0         75
FY91
Si                   1.0           -          1.0         80
52                   1.0           -          1.0         8S
2.0           -          2.0         85
FY92
S1                   1.0           -          1.0         90
S2                  0.5            -         0.5          92.5
1.5           -          1.5         92.5
FY93
S1                  0.4            -         0.4          94.5
S2                  0.6            -         0.6          97.5
1.0           -          1.0         97.5
w=r          an          m==as w
FY94
Si                  0.5            -         0.5         100
S2                   -      -                  - 
TOTAL                18.0         2.0         20.0        100
,_= ~     ma m=s===s==



-65-
Annex 8
SRI LANKA
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP II)
Project Documentation
The Industrial and Financial Sector
1. Report of the Presidential Tariff Commission - March 1985.
2. Draft Report of the Special Committee on Export Incentives and Policies -
March 1986
3. Review of Public Enterprise Activities - 1984/1985
4. Policy and Targetting Analysis for Private Sector Development in
Sri Lanka - June 1985
5. Development of Capital Markets - October 1984
6. Report of the Debt Recovery Review Committee - July 1985
Project Reports
7. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations
8. Strategy and Policy Statement - DFCC
9. Operational and Financial Data - DFCC
10. Portfolio Restructuring Program - DFCC
11. Strategy and Policy Statement - NDB
12. Operational and Financial Data - NDB
13. Portfolio Restructuring Program - NDB
14. Reporting Requirements
DKGroves/dld
4-9-86



1BRD1727E
Ii*                             M~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY IOUl
SRI LANKA
INDUSTR.AL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JAFFNA
Notionol Co0ital
/                                                -- - - District Boundaories
_.  uagMULWT                                         Provincial Boundaries
NORTHERN L-
VAVUNWYA
MItNNAR                    .-
\ TRINCOMALEE
ANURADHAPURA                    /
AI/ORTH  CEAN/TRAI
[,<                              I PUTTALA                            POLONNARUWA
i               ~NORTH                        -           . 
f                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BATTICALOA
WES TERN
K *<URUNEGALA        j   !WATAlEASTERN
1 .<CENTRAL                                 V; 
GAMRAHA  J                       KA ND                                         AIAPARP
KEGALLA             A             )BADULLA  (J,VA
I
e  <   N  ~~    NUWARAUV                       J
-- ELIYA  %                 yMONERAGALA
Ž1~~~~~~~~~1
________________            KAtUTARA            Rr-:             '                                 -
| -'~~~~~~~~-   L- -.                                  \. l S"'
I ND IA                                 N-
I N D I A   1}     ~GALLE         I                      \HAM13ANTOTA
SOUTHERN
4ATARAa (                                                 1        e  1  30
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; _6 t                              E



