CREDIT NUMBER 1692 CE
DFCC Project Agreement
(Second Industrial Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
Dated                                 , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1692 CE
DFCC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT     SO    ION   hereinafter called the
Association) and DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
(hereinafter called DFCC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Asso-
ciation has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million four hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,400,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that DFCC agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DFCC, part of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to DFCC on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS DFCC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context shall otherwise require,
the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement,
the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. DFCC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its part of


﻿-2-
Parts A and B of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
investment standards and practices, and in accordance with the
DFCC Act, the DFCC Statement of Policy and the DFCC Strategy
Statement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, DFCC shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for autho-
rization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b) (i) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-
limit Sub-loan) to the Association for approval, DFCC shall
furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory
to the Association, together with a description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be financed
thereunder (including a description of the expenditures for
such Investment Project proposed to be financed by DFCC and
an appraisal of the Investment Project as specified in sub-
paragraph (ii) below) and the proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan including the schedule of amortization of the
Sub-loan, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request; and (ii) such appraisals will include an
assessment of the environmental impact of the Investment Project,
a calculation of the internal financial rate of return and an
evaluation of the economic viability established in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Each request by DFCC for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the expected economic rate of return) and the
terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
ProjeCt shall provide for an appropriate period of grace and,


﻿-3-
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(i) shall not extend beyond 15 years (including the grace period)
from the date of commitment by DFCC of such Investment Project or
of authorization by the Association to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account in respect of such Investment Project, whichever
is later; and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DFCC
shall not submit an application for approval pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section or a request for
authorization to withdraw from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, unless DFCC
is in compliance with the eligibility provisions set forth in
Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
(f) Except as the Association and DFCC shall otherwise
agree, DFCC shall submit applications for approval pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section and requests for
authorizations to withdraw from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section on or before
March 31, 1990.
Section 2.04. (a) DFCC undertakes that unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be
made on terms whereby DFCC shall obtain, by written agreement or
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and of DFCC, including, inter alia,
the terms and conditions and the rights set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
(b)   DFCC shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of DFCC; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the respective Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. DFCC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. DFCC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, DFCC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending,
abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) DFCC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) DFCC shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-loans, its part of the
Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects and
the administration, operations and financial condition of DFCC.
(c) DFCC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by DFCC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. DFCC shall duly perform all its obligations in
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at
the disposal of DFCC by the Borrower or its agencies or others
for relending, investment or management. DFCC shall promptly
inform the Association of any action which would have the effect
of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material
provision of, any such agreement.
Section 2.09. DFCC shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of DFCC under this
Agreement to the extent to which such obligations may be made
applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding upon
each of such Subsidiaries.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DFCC
Section 3.01. DFCC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with a Statement of Policy and a


﻿-5-
Strategy Statement satisfactory to the Association and sound
administrative, financial and investment standards and practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association and DFCC shall
otherwise agree, DFCC shall: (i) not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the
ordinary course of business; and (ii) take all action necessary
to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on opera-
tions and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of
its business.
Section 3.03. DFCC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. DFCC shall maintain procedures, records and
separate accounts adequate to monitor and record the progress of
its part of the Project and of each Investment Project, and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition and
shall enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records.
Section 4.02. (a) DFCC shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and   financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said


﻿-6-
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
Association   shall  have   reasonably   requested;
and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements,
records and expenditures, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(b) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, DFCC shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this
Agreement, separate records and accounts reflect-
ing such expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last disbursement from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, DFCC shall:
(a) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as
shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/equity
ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.04 of this Agree-
ment; and


﻿-7-
(b) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond DFCC's control,
be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as shall be
necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association and DFCC shall
otherwise agree, DFCC shall not incur or permit any of its
Subsidiaries to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the consolidated debt of DFCC and all its Subsidiaries then
incurred and outstanding would exceed seven times the consoli-
dated capital and surplus of DFCC and all its Subsidiaries. For
the purpose of this Section:
(a) The tern "debt" means any debt incurred by DFCC or any
Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
DFCC or by a Subsidiary.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement, on the date and
to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan con-
tract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Rupees debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful.
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
ol such valuation, obtainable in Sri Lanka for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of DFCC and all its Sub-
sidiaries" means the total amount of debt of DFCC and all its
Subsidiaries excluding: (i) debt owed by DFCC to any Subsidiary
or by any Subsidiary to DFCC or to any other Subsidiary; and (ii)
debt referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) and (iii) of this
Section.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of DFCC and
all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the total
unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of DFCC and
of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as
shall represent equity interests of DFCC in any Subsidiary, or of


﻿- 8 -
any such Subsidiary in DFCC or in any other Subsidiary; (ii) the
amount of the loans and credits extended to DFCC by the Bank and
the Association; and (iii) such amount of any other loan which
the Association may determine to be included in the consolidated
capital and surplus of DFCC.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association and DFCC shall
otherwise agree, DFCC shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than
deposits) having an original term exceeding one year.
Section 4.06. DFCC shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Rupees) used in its borrowing
and lending operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of DFCC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
DFCC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be deiivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For DFCC:
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
P.O. Box 1397
Colombo
Sri Lanka
Cable Address:                      Telex:
DELCEY                              21681 DELCEY CE
Colombo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of DFCC, or by DFCC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by its General Manager or such other person or persons as DFCC


﻿- 10 -
shall designate in writing, and DFCC shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, Unites States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    /
Regional Vice President
South Asia
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Terms and conditions specified in Schedule 3 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall apply.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DFCC shall
obtain, inter alia, in respect of Sub-loans, the right to:
(a) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b) require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased
in accordance with provisions of Schedule 5 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and (ii), such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such goods,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Pro-
ject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and docu-
ments;
(d) require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or instal-
lation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency
freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair
such goods;
(e) obtain all such information as the Association or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Project; and
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by


﻿- 12 -
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with DFCC.
3.    Commitments in any single industrial sub-sector shall not
exceed 20% of total commitments made by DFCC under the Project.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Eligibility Conditions
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, DFCC shall,
in order to maintain its eligibility to gain ar.cess to the
proceeds of the Credit, achieve:
(a)   a minimum cash collection* rate of 70% in **FY 1987
to participate initially, increasing to 75% in FY 1988 and
thereafter;
(b) return on average net worth of not less than 9%;
(c)  return on average total assets of not less than 1% in
FY 1987, and thereafter increasing progressively to 2% by FY
1990;
(d)   debt service ratio of 1.1:1 for FY 1987 and 1.2:1
thereafter; and
(e) debt equity ratio of 7:1.
*    Collection rates shall be calculated on a rolling quarterly
basis with the rate computed on the basis of aggregate
accounts due and aggregate amounts collected.
**   FY means the fiscal year of DFCC for the period of April 1
to March 31 each year.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


