Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAI. USE ONLY
Report No. 9538
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH
(CREDIT 1410-HA)
APRIL 29, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the CaribDean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Gourdes (G)
Appraisal (1983) - Gourde (G) 5.00 - US$1.00
PCR (1990) - Gourde (G) 5.00 = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCA         Agricultural Credit Bureau
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
FAC         Fund for Aid and Cooperation (France)
GTZ         German Agency for Technical Assistance
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
MARNDR      Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural
Development
ODN         Organization for the Development of the North
Development
RDF         Rural Development Fund
SEPRRN      National Roads Maintenance Service
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



ORo OFFcIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ok ni ofDucIteGnwal
Ope,aimn Iv4uaSIn~
April 29, 1991
MmORANDUm     THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TIE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report - Haiti: Second Rural Development
Proiect in tbe North (Credit 1410-HA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report - Haiti: Second Rural Development Project in the North
(Credit 1410-UH) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribboan Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operation. Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
Tsis document has a restricted distribution ant may be used by recipients only In the perfornce
of their official dutioa Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoriation.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH
(CREDIT 1410-EA)
Page No.
Preface   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
Evaluation Summary  .. .... . . .  . . . . . ....... 
Part I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity  . . .     ..........    .. . . . .  .           1
2. Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
3. Project Objectives and Description  . . . .  .  . .    .           1
4. Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     2
5. Project Implementation...                   . .  . . . .          2
6. Project Results  .     .   .  .  .  .  . ...    . . . . . . .     3
7. Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   .  .   .         8
8. Bank and Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     9
9. Project Relationships .....       .. ... .  . . . *              10
10. Consulting Services . .. . ....  . . .   .        .   . .  . . . .  11
11. Project Documentation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Part II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation and its
Development Impact on the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Part III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related IDA Credits  ....  .    ....      ...........  .          33
2. Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
3. IDA Credit and IFAD Loan Disbursements    . . . . . . . . . .    37
4. Project Costs and Financing  . .  .  .    .  .  . *    ...    . .   .. .. 38-39
5. Project Results  . . . . . . . . ..... . . . . . . . . .    40
6. Status of Covenants  .....................                        44
7. Staff Inputs and Bank Missions ... . . . ... . .    45
MAP IBRD No. 16788
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performauce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH
(CREDIT 1410-HA)
PREFACE
1.          This is tho Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Rural
Development Project 'n the North, for which IDA Credit 1410-HA in the amount
of SDR 17.7 million (US$19.1 million) and IFAD Loan 128-HA for SDR 4.65
million (USs5.0 million)V was approved on April 22, 1983. The credit was
closed on December 31, 1989, one and a half years behind schedule and final
disbursement from the credit account was on May 25, 1990. An amount in
US$20.6 million under the IDA Credit has been disbursed and SDR 35,706 was
cancelled effective May 25, 1990. An amount in US$5.2 million under the IFAD
loan has been disbursed. The higher disbursed amount is due to the fact that
the SDR appreciated vis-a-vis the dollar.
2.          The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Sector Operations
Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
3.          Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in March 1989, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit Agreement (DCA);
supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; interviews
with relevant project staff; and internal IDA memoranda.
i/ The IFAD Loan 128-HA was to finance agricultural development activities.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH
(CREDIT 1410-HA)
EVALUATION SUMHARY
Obiectives
1.        The project was IDA's second contribution to the rural development
of the northern provinces, this time with three co-financiers, IFAD, France's
FAC, and Germany's GTZ. Its objectives which were consistent with the goals
and strategy of the 1982-86 plan (para. 2.02), were to increase smallholders
dry-land and irrigated food production and to continue the improvement of
institutions and infrastructure initiated under the first project
(Credit 675-HA). It consisted of: (i) irriRatiOn rehabilitation, operation
and maintenance, as well as on-farm development in two locations;
(ii) extension, research and seed production for agricultural development in
selected areas; (iii) agriculture credit; (iv) rural roads rehabilitation,
construction and maintenance; (v) rehabilitation, construction and maintenance
of rural water supply systems; (vi) institutional strenathenina through
technical assistance, training, r- .,toring and evaluation, (vii) funding and
operating a Rural Development Funi (RDF), and (viii) three studies, one of
which was to be financed under GTZ Technical Assistance. The Organization for
the Development of the North (ODN) was to continue planning and coordinating
project activities (para. 3.01).
Imnlementation Expterience
2.        The DCA became effective on January 16, 1984, almost within
original deadline and closed December 31, 1989 after two extensions
(para. 5.01). Disbursements ran ahead of schedule until the political unrest
of 1986-87--a key factor inhibiting good project execution--brought the
project temporarily to a standstill (para. 6.17). Several project risks
influenced project design (para. 5.02). Technical assistauce was adequately
built into the project to meet the possibility of beneficiaries' lack of
response to the discipline of irrigation. Only a relatively modest scale of
infrastructure construction was included in the project, to mitigate the risk
of insufficient maintenance. Although it is too early to say, signs of
unsatisfactory maintenance are developing, in part due to the deteriorating
macroeconomic situation of the country. Insufficient rainfall and/or farmers'
indifference about improved practices did not turn out to be risks to rainfed
agriculture. Rather, the main failing was due to overestimating the
availability of technical innovations and the means to deliver them. The
institutional risk was underestimated, although the contributing political
risk was unpredictable.



-v -
3.        Actual project coot was US$33.4 million, about 15% overrun.  It was
met by higher Borrower's contribution and by IDA and International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) surplus funds resulting from an appreciated
SDR vis-a-vis the dollar. Road building and project coordination incurred
cost overruns while irrigation development, underruns. Procurement and
reort.na were satisfactory. audit reports were issued with variable delayw.
Except for defaults in training (covenant 4.08) and water charges (covenant
5.05(c)), covenants were met (para. 6.18 and Table 6).
4.        irrigation rehabilitation was a qualified success.  The
quantitativs rehabilitation targets--260 ha at St. Raphael and 200 ha at
Grison Garde--were met, as was that of land development (920 ha). Production,
thanks to effective technical assistance, has increased substantially and so
have farm incomes, albeit some 15% below expectation. It is uncertain whether
maintenance will be sustained because farmers have not been organized for that
purpose and only some 20% of water charges are collected (paras. 6.05-6.07)
S.        Rainfed acricultural development failed because extension was
unsatisfactory due to poor training, lack of suitable technology to extend,
and abrupt changes in orientation. Research trials were affected by changes
in approach, indecisions about topics and lack of follow-up. Thus, except for
land development trials and adaptation of certain varieties under irrigation,
research results were meager. The production and supply of seeds was also
unsatisfactory. These failures resulted principally from management
discontinuities, overestimation of institutional capacity and lack of clearly
drawn-up and agreed work plans. Positive achievements included ox-drawn
cultivation and on-farm drying facilities introduced in modest scale following
the recommendations of the FAC supported farm survey (paras. 6.08-6.09).
6.        The construction of roads (para. 6.02) and water supply facilities
(para. 6.04) exceed3d targets and reportedly the incremental traffic and
number of beneficiaries, respectively, met expectation. Maintenance is
already a problem in the case of water facilities and may develop in roads
(para. 6.03) due to chronic shortage of funds.
7.        The credit component did not perform well even though technical
assistance was provided to the Agricultural Credit Bureau (BCA) in the hope of
increasing its efficiency (para. 6.13). IDA suspended disbursements to BCA
on May 19, 1987, because it defaulted on the audit covenant. Disbursements
were not resumed for this component.
8.        The RDF financed 150 projects of which some 40% were completed
successfully. This mediocre performance resulted from insufficient staffing
and management input. Nevertheless, the RDF concept has potential, provided
it is well planned, managed and followed-up (para 6.14).
9.        Of the three studies proposed under the project, one was financed
by IDA and completed, i.e., a study on the strengthening of the accounting
capabilities of the ODN (para. 6.17). The other two studies, namely
feasibility of a dam for water storage and a study of irrigation water charges
for the project area (Table 6, covenant 5.05(b)) were financed by GTZ. It was
determined that no further study was required after completion of the first
phase of this study (para. 6.15).



10.       The institutional de"eloDment goals were generally not achieved.
The most obvious cause was institutional instability exacerbated by political
unrest. This undermined the work of technical assistance, which generally did
well under the circumstances, particularly in training. Yet, overall,
training was limited; the submlssion of a training plan was late and not
followed up. The role of ODN vis-a-vis line agencies was changed several
times and tensions with the Ministry psrsist. On the positive side, sound
financial control as well as monitoring and evaluation have been established
(parac. 6.16, 6.17).
11.       The rate of return of the agriculture component is estimated close
to zero, that of the roads component between 10 to 15%, provided maintenance
is sustained, and that of the overall project between zero and 5%
(paras. 6.19-6.25).
12.       The sustAinability of the project's pop.tive achievements cannot be
guaranteed unless infrastructure maintenance is improved. However, the
Government has begun to initiate major policy actions which promise to improve
the impact of future project interventions. In recognition of the
deficiencies identified, and the lessons learned in this PCR, the follow-on
project (forestry and environmental protection), now under preparation, would
focus (in the context of raising agricultural productivity and the provision
of agricultural support services) on the development of appropriate
technology, greater participation of NGOs, and in general, keep the project
small and manageable with use of pilot activities (para. 7.01).
Lessons Learned
13.       The following are the principal lessons from the project:
(a) The importance of clearly specifying the non-physical components of
the project, such as extension, research and technical assistance,
and of assuring the understanding and agreement of all parties
concerned should not be underestimated. Otherwise they are likely
to be affected by ad-hoc decision making and policy reversals;
(b) The capacity of executing agencies should be conservatively
evaluated. In a weak institutional environment, maximum use of
private agencies and NGOs (particularly to execute difficult
grasoroot activities such as extension or organizing beneficiarios
for a common purpose) should be made. In the context of those
activities reserved for the public sector, institutional building
should be pursued on the basis of well designed and followed-up
technical assistance anchored by well thought out and enforced
covenants;
(c) The matters under (a) and (b) above require a positive but time
consuming dialogue between the Borrower and financiers. Therefore,
appraisal cannot be rushed. If external funds are required to
maintain either the physical or institutional infrastructure built
under an earlier project, interim financial arrangements should be
preferred to advancing appraisal. Appraisal s. uld not precede the
availability of identified key studies;



- vi -
(d) The feasibillty of Borrower's obllgations under Intended covenants
should be investigated thoroughly in advance before negotiations
and if necessary should be adjusted to the circumstances. For
inatance, the prevalence of tenant farmers in the irrigation
perimeters makes the collection of water chargee unlikely;
different arrangjements are needed;
(e)  The ability ot Government to provide fund. to sustain or maintain
project achievements should be investigated at the macroeconomic
level. Existing meager budgetary resources are subject to
competing clalme and their expansion is a function of development
itself which in turn requlres a minimum of well functioning
infrastructure and institutions. Thus, until the fiscal base
attains a certain critical mass the only practical arrangement to
assuro. maintenance is to provide financing in follow-up projects;
(f) The RDF is a flexible and effective rural development tool,
particularly in difficult agricultural environments. It permite
tailoring small-scale development activltiis to the perceived needs
of the beneficiaries. However, it requires clear and sound
eligibility criteria as well as sufficient competent staff to
analyze and follow-up subprojects; and
(g)  When implementing a project through a unit that has a titular
ministry, coordination issues, and delineation of responsibilities
have to be carefully analyzed and addressed in advance. In this
project there were latent tensions between ODN and MARNDR,
resulting in frequent changes in policies and procedures.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH
(CREDIT 1410-HA)
PARTI I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Pro1ect Identity
Project Name:     Second Rural Development Project in the North
Credit No.:       1410-HA
RVP Unit:         Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:          Haiti
Sector:           Agriculture
Subsector:        Rural Development
2.        Prolect Background
2.01      Agriculture plays a major role in Haiti.  It accounted for about
381 of GDP between 1976 and 1981 but it has stagnated since 1980. Cyclical
shortfalls in coffee production resulted historically in erratic agricultural
growth. Domestic food production is insufficient to meet demar.d and is
complemented by sizeable imports (rice, maizo, beans and wheat) which are
accelerating as X result of population growth and urbanization. Soil erosion
is a basic, and, in the long run, perhaps the most serious constraint to
agricultural growth in Haiti. Infrastructure, particularly the status of
roads is a major agricultural constraint. Also, problems such as health,
nutrition and environment remain to be tackled.
2.02      The project was executed in the context of the agricultural
policies which are embodied in the 1982-86 five-year plan. Principally, they
call for: (a) increasing the output of food and export crops; (b) improving
infrastructure and support services; (c) expanding irrigated agriculture;
(d) promoting farmer's associations; and (e) preserving natural resources. To
implement these policies, one of the Government's strategies was to allocate
to the agricultural sector concessional funds from the main external donor
agencies. The project and the project components were consistent with
Government agricultural policy and strategy.
3.        Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.01      The pr  *ct objectives were to increase small-scale crop
production, bo.   rrigated and dryland, and to continue the improvement of
rural infrastructure and institutions initiated under the first project
(Credit 675-HA). It consisted of: (a) rehabilitation as well as operation
and maintenance of irrigation systems in St. Raphael (260 ha) and Grison Garde
(200 ha) and on-farm development on 920 ha; (b) redeployment of extension



services, diversification of agricultural research and expansion of seed
production for the purpose of agriculture development in selected areas;
(c) provision of short- and medium-term credit; (d) rehabilitation and
construction (116 km), as well as maintenance (200 km) of rural roadet
(a) construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of rural water supplv
systems; (f) institutional strengthening through technical assistance,
training, monitoring and evaluation; (g) support to small-scale development
activities by local communities through grants from a Rural Development Fund
(RDF) from the project; and (h) three studies, one of which was to be financed
under GTZ Technical Assistance. The Organization for the Development of the
North (ODN) was to continue planning and coordinating project activities.
4.        Project Design and Organization
4.01      The appraisal report defined with sufficient dstail and clarity this
relatively complex project to be co-financed by IDA, IFAD, France's Fund for
Aid and Cooperation (FAC) and the German Federal Republic's GTZ. Considerable
effort on the part of the IBRD/FAO CP, the Bank and co-financiers was spent
between 1979 and 1981 to complete preparation, based on the experience which
was becoming available from the first project. In the abstract, the
composition and organization of the project was sound. Success in the
execution of some components such as irrigation, roads and water supply, was
due to proper identification of issues arising during the first project. Yet,
surprisingly, some problems experienced during the first project reoccurred
during the project, chiefly in rainfed agriculture and, generally, in the
respective roles of ODN and line agencies. In part this was due to faulty
information in the case of rainfed agriculture, particularly to an
overestimation of the potential of agriculture techniques tested during the
first project. How.ver, exogenous factors also conspired against project
execution.  Thero were rumerous discontinuities in project management which
were exacerbated in 1985 and 1986 during the removal of President Duvalier.
An area of genuine misunderstanding between donors and Government, which
incidentally is rather frequent, concerned the roles of consultants
(para. 10.01).
5.        Project Implementation
5.01      Effectiveness and Implementation Period.  The DCA became effective
January 16, 1984, less than a month from the original deadline. It was closed
December 31, 1989 after two extensions to permit the completion of water
supply and road infrastructure, and carry sut studies for a possible follow-up
project.
5.02      Proiect Risks.  Three risks are explicit in the appraisal report:
(i) reluctance on the part of beneficiaries to abide by the discipline of
irrigation development; (ii) failure of infrastructure maintenance; and
(iii) insuff'cient rainfall for rainfed agriculture and/or farmer's
indifference to innovations. The first two risks were correctly identified.
The Technical Assistance built into the project was able to mitigate the risk
to irrigation development. It is too early to say whether the risk to
infrastructure has been avoided. It is likely that the third risk exists.
However, the main factor behind the failure of the rainfed component was a
technical misjudgment of the availability of technical innovations or of the
effectiveness to convey them. In the end, the major omission was the
institutional risk. The weakness and instability of the agencies involved was



- 3 -
predictable from the first project; it was exacerbated by unpredictable
political instability.
5.03      factors and Decisions that Affected Implementation.  A key hindrance
to the project was the political unrest. Other important factors were:
(i) latent tensions between ODN and MARNDR which resulted in frequent changes
in policies and procedures; (ii) starting-up the project before the FAC
supported study was completed; (iii) delays in deploying cert'   consultants,
particularly in irrigation; (iv) lack of a clearly understood e..a agrced upon
research and extension policy, illustrated by the repeated changes in emphasis
of sugarcane vis-a-vis other crops; (v) unplanned staff inflation of ODN which
increased cost without improving services, prompting IDA to decrease the
appropriate disbursement percentage, and which was only reversed following a
study requested by the donors; (vi) delays in arranging and submitting a
project training plan and failure to follow it up; (vii) failure to recognize
land tenure as a factor conditioning payment of water charges with
implications for future maintenance; (viii) lack of proper emphasis on and
follow-up of the soil conservation component; (ix) failure to provide for
technical assistance in the RDF component; and (x) acceptance of BCA as the
project credit agency. On the positive side, the donors and the Borrower were
able to agree on carrying out and implementing certain key studies such as one
on the financial procedures of ODii and another on its management.
6.        Project Results
6.01      The objectives of the different project components were achieved to
different degrees. Infrastructure components, such as, irrigation
development, roads and water supply, were close to or exceedcd targets. Other
components generally did not reach targets.
6.02      The road component, particularly construction, was satisfactorily
achieved. Contractors, hired in accordance with ICB, built 117 km of roads
(target: 116 km) in 13 sections compared with 16 planned. There were only
small delays in spite of some early bureaucrstic snags in organizing ICB and
later political unrest. Reportedly, in most sections built traffic has nearly
trebled as forecasted. Actual unit costs (between US$43,000 and
47,000 per km) were double appraisal estimates. These cost overruns were
caused principally by unexpected drainage problems and by the need to move
more earth in the hills. In addition, the bids were relatively high because
the job was small, resulting in relatively high unit mobilization costs.
6.03      The project provided for the maintenance of 200 km of roads,
including those built during the first project. To that end ODN entered into
a contract with the National Roads Maintenance Service (SEPRRN). Although at
the beginning SEPRRN suffered from occasional lack of funds, which was
somewhat resolved in mid-1986 by providing it with a revolving fund equivalent
to US$60,000, roads maintenance has been acceptable. Yet, historically, Haiti
has had difficulties funding road maintenance out of its own budget,
particularly secondary roads. Thus, it is uncertain whether the maintenance
of project roads can be sustained.
6.04      The targets of water supply construction were exceeded.  At the
closing of the credit, 28 village water supply systems had been completed and
three others were under construction, compared with a target of 21. Over
200 wells had been built or rehabilitated compared with 195 planned. These



-4-
facilities benefit at least the expected 128,000 people. However, repair and
maintenance continues to be a problem. It was estimated that at the end of
1989 about 60% of the pumps installed tinder the project were inoperative.
Clearly, not enough emphasis has been placed on motivation and training of the
beneficiaries, since they have not yet assumed the responsibility for system
maintenance, and have not been organized for that purpose.
6.05      Irrigation.  The rehabilitation of the St. Raphael System 260 ha
contemplated under the project was completed, with minor delays. This brought
the total area rehabilitated and developed for irrigation under the First and
this project to the planned 720 ha. Consequently, agriculture productivity
and production have increased considerably. It is estimated that during the
last five years in the rehabilitated area, the acreage under vegetables has
increased by 93%, paddy yields have doubled reaching 2.6 m ton/ha, the average
revenue per hectare has increased from US$400 to US$700 equivalent and the
demand for remunerated farm labor has increased considerably.
6.06      The financing and execution of operation and maintenance (O&M)
remains unresolved and irrigation maintenance is unsatisfactory. Users' labor
contribution to system maintenance through u.'ers committees has so far failed,
in part due to communities' lack of trust in external assistance efforts. The
system of collecting water charges established in 1985 is generally ignored
and yields only between 15 to 25% of the O&M cost. In fact, the recommended
water charges, based on a study, were not implemented after 1986 (Table 6).
Goverrment does not have the necessary funds and under these conditions the
systems rehabilitated under the project are already falling into disrepair.
The collection of water charges is a frequent problem in this type of project
due to lack of political will, unsatisfactory servi'es, cultural values, etc.
The problem in St. Raphael is exacerbated by the fact that about 40% of the
beneficiaries are precarious tenants.
6.07      The system at Grison Garde involved 200 ha of dilapidated
irrigation which the project intended to rehabilitate for intensive rice
cultivation. The DCA provided that the completion of certain hydrological
information was a condition of disbursement. This condition was not met and
IDA did not release the funds. However, the Borrower proceeded with
distributive urgent rehabilitation of some small structures such as a
diversion weir and distribution structures from the Rural Development Fund
(RDF) component, which allowed it to carry out eligible development activitieo
without consulting IDA provided the cost was less than US$20,000 equivalent.
At the completion of the project between 170 ha and 200 ha had been
rehabilitated for irrigation; this is equivalent or close to targets. The
total cost was well below original expectation because the quantity of works
had been overestimated. The adoption of intensive double crop rice production
on the part of beneficiaries is impressive. Reportedly in mid-1989, it
involved 170 ha and 80% of perimeter farmers. Paddy yields average around
3.5 m ton/ha and gross farm incomes attained US$900 per ha and per crop.
Demand for salaried work has also increased noticeably. Unfortunately, two
problems threaten the future viability and sustainability of this subproject.
As in St. Raphael, O&M remains an unresolved problem. In addition, successful
land development has created conflicting claims on water availability and
equitable distribution. Regrettably, IDA did not follow-up on the substance
of this requirement.



6.08      Agrcultural DeveloDment. As designed, this project component
involved activities which were key to stimulating agriculture production
increases and thus to the generation of project benefits. This was
particularly true in respect to rainfed agriculture which was expected to
create over half of the benefits. These activities were: agriculture
extension and soil conservation, research and development, and seed
production.
6.09      It was expected that under the project, the extension services
would be redeployed in the subareas of better agricultural potential and that
in close coord-tation with research, it would disseminate known and simple
improved production techniques. Except in the irrigated areas which were
relatively small and compact and which benefitted from close foreign technical
assistance, extension did not perform as hoped. An important cause was severe
discontinuities and abrupt changes in direction following the frequent changes
in project management. It is difficult to confirm that the number and
potential of extension services available, as well as their acceptability on
the part of rainfed farmers, was less than believed because the conveying
mechanism broke down. It is also difficult to assess the effect of the
limited training of the extension staff. At any rate, the effect on output
fell short of expectation (para 6.20). The soil conservation measures which
were supposed to be concurrently executed were minimal. They were confined to
the protection of 340 ha of hillside lands and the distribution of a limited
number of tree seedlings without any follow up; after 1986 this subcomponent
was virtually discontinued.
6.10      Agriculture research, for which continuity is critical, also
suffered from the frequent changes in management, which resulted in changes in
approach, indecision concerning the relative emphasis of on-farm field trials,
and impeded sufficient follow-up of the trials. The selection of research
themes was also inadequate (too numerous at the beginning), and subject to
changes in emphasis such as the sudden concentration and then abaaidonment of
sugarcane research between 1985 and 1987. Consequently, except for the
selection, adaptation and introduction of a few rice and vegetable varieties
the results were minimal. On-farm development trials under irrigation were
successfully carried out and disseminated in the irrigation perimeters.
6.11      ODN continued to produce basic seeds of selected varieties of
maize, beans, groundnuts, sweet potatoes, etc., initiated under the first
project. Finally, as envisaged, it contracted field multiplication with
farmers in 1985 but, for lack of support and control, the output was deficient
and the effort was terminated shortly thereafter. As a result the supply of
good seed, for which farm demand is strong, was unsatisfactory.
6.12      Pursuant to the findings of a FAC supported farm survey which was
not completed until atter appraisal, the project carried out some activities
not included in the DCA. These were ox-drawn cultivation, on-farm crop drying
facilities and input retail stores, all also supported by FAC. Although these
activities were in small scale and not fully evaluated, they show promise,
particularly the first two, judging by their acceptability on the part of
farmers. Ox-drawn cultivation was initiated in 1985 and by the end of the
project 76 units were in operation. Between 1984 and 1989 some 850 drying
facilities were built on project farms with resources from the RDF
(para. 6.14) after tests of the specifications, carried out in 1984.
Reportedly, these facilities were very beneficial to paddy growers. ODN



-6-
built, initially stocked and ran, input retailing facilities in three location
to serve as example to potential local entrepreneurs. The stores were not
able to procure the inputs either in the nature, quantity, and timing required
and therefore the experiment was not satisfactory.
6.13      A&ricultural Credit.  The expectation that with external assistance
BCA would prove an acceptable lending institution proved unfounded; it
remained inefficient and bureaucratic. ODN, which had handled credit
inefflciently during the first project, had been given the role of assisting
farmers to prepare credit applications and to organize mutually responsible
groups of borrowers. It did not perform this function satisfactorily either.
The relative success of some components, such as irrigation and ox-drawn
cultivation was in spite of, rather than because of, the credit arrangements
of the project. Farm credit was provided through 1987 when IDA suspended
disbursements because of a breaching in the audit covenant. In total BCA
extended 472 project loans compared with 1,700 planned for a total of about
US$400,00n as planned. Credit recovery 's poor at about 52x. Reportedly,
the appraisal mission recommended to channel credit through a private Bank but
the Government did not accept this.  Clearly, in the future, credit
arrangements ir. the project area should be different and at any tate involve
considerable technical assistance and training.
6.14      Rural DeveloRment Fund.  The project provided grants worth
US$1.5 million for RDF to finance small community projects which would be
technically and economically viable and which would involve beneficiaries'
labor in construction. At the closing of the project, virtually all the funds
had been committed to finance some 150 projects. About 401 of these are
estimated to have been completed successfully and to be in operation. ODN
assigned only one professional to this component who could not cope with the
workload. As a result, the capacity to analyze project proposals suffered as
did the subsequent supervision of their implementation. Overall, bowever,
this flexible mechanism of financing rural development has potential in an
environment like the project area. Demand for support of small viable
community projects is strong. However, successful implementation requires--in
addition to clear and sound eligibility criteria--an institution with
appropriate staff to analyze and follow-up projects and disburse the funds.
6.15      Studies.  Of the three studies proposed under the project, one was
financed by IDA and completed, i.e., a study on the strengthening of the
accounting capabilities of the ODN. The other two studies, namely feasibility
of a dam for water storage and a study of irrigation water charges for the
project area (Table 6, covenant 5.05(b)) were financed by GTZ. It was
determined that no further study was required after completion of the first
phase of this study.
6.16      Coordination and Institutional Development.  Pursuant to the
experience with the first project, the project was expected to be executed by
line agencies under the coordination of ODN, except in the case where line
agencies had serious limitations, such as, in research and development, seed
production, training, irrigation development, water supply, and monitoring and
evaluation. It also provided for institutional strengthening in the form of
technical assistance and training.
6.17      In general, the objectives of institutional development were not
met. The most obvious cause was the general instability in the country during



the project life. ODN had 6 Directors in 7 years and considerable staff
turnover. These changes neceessarily blurred the understanding of project
management in respect to the principles and agreements to govern the project.
Thus, shortly after project start-up, ODN took on progressively mote execution
functions and only in 1987, following the result of the accounting
capabilities study required by the donors, agreements were signed between ODN
and the MARNDR for the devolution of executing functions to line agencies.
The impact of the TA was also affected as consultants' duties and
responsibilities were often modified and this also undermined their ability to
train changing counterparts. On the positive side, a sound accounting system
designed by an international accounting firm was installed with the help of a
newly appointed expatriate financial controller; so far, however, it has been
utilized mostly to satisfy donors disbursement requirements rather than for
internal financial management. The project has established a sound M&E
system, based on a FAC financed base survey, which, unfortunately, the
frequent changes in management did not permit to fully exploit. The Borrower
issued the required training plan late and it was not followed. However, the
project provided training to project technicians in the form of short courses
and seminars under contract with the Middle Agricultural School at Dondon.
On-the-job training and field training to farmers was informally supplied by
consultants.
6.18       Credit Administration.  The final Rroject cost was, in dollars,
about 33.4 million some 15Z above original estimates. The costs of road
building and project coordination were about double and plus 302,
respectively, of appraisal estimates. Irrigation costs were less than
budgeted because less investment was required, particularly at Grison Garde,
and the fact that these costs were paid out of the RDF category.
Disbursements were ahead of schedule during the first two years but came to a
standstill during 1986-88 due to political unrest. They were completed in
April 30, 1990. Because the SDR appreciated vis-a-vis the dollar, IDA and
IAD disbursed in dollars 1.5 and 0.2 million, respectively, above original
estimates; they also cancelled about US$0.04 and US$0.( million, respectively.
Procurement proceeded satisfactorily.  Project reporting .   generally
punctuals good in infrastructure, poor on agriculture, and moot on prices and
economics. Some special reports commissioned from the M&E unit were very good
indeed. IDA received the audit reports required but with variable delays. In
1987 IDA suspended disbursements to BCA because it was in default of the audit
covenant. The status of covenants as of the credit closing date is in
Part III, Table 6. The defaults concerned training (covenant 4.08) and water
charges (covenant 5.05(c)).
6.19      Project Impact.  The physical and institutional objectives of the
project were expected to make a positive developmental impact by increasing
agricultural output and beneficiaries' farm incomes and by strengthening local
institutions to provide continuity, diversification and expansion of project
activities in the future. The quantifiable part of these benefits gave a rate
of return of 23% at appraisal. This rate embodied all projected costs and
benefits except water supply, which was justified by unquantifiable benefits.
The rate of return was subjected to a variety of sensitivity tests; this
section examines the changes of the key variables utilized in the original
tests and attempts to draw conclusions in respect of the likely ultimate
project rate of return.



- 8 -
6.20      Although the irrigation land development targets were met
(paras. 6.05 and 6.07), the impressive gains in output were not sufficient to
meet the ambitious targets. It is estimated that at completion, they were
lagging between 40 and 45x. Since maintenance is not satisfactory, barring
any drastic change, it would not be reasonable to assume that they will catch
up. Since the activities designed to increase output of rainfed agriculture
were generally not successful, the project-induced output from these lands was
minimal. The monitoring and evaluation services of the project estimated a
shortfall from appraisal targets of the order of about 911; virtually no
effect.
6.21      The project incremental output was expected to come to roughly 58X
and 421 from irrigation and rainfed cropping respectively. The sensitivity
analysis indicated a switching value of -202 of output in respect to the
opportunity cost of capital (OCC). Thus, the actual shortfalls in output
would make the ROR inferior to OCC and, if positive at all, small. This is
consistent with the barely positive (less than 11) re-estimated ROR at
completion calculated by the M&E services for the agriculture components.
Farm income, in irrigated areas, increased to 80% of target. The individual
shortfall in farm income is less than proportional to that of output because
beneficiaries' farms were larger than planned; 1/3 less farms benefitted from
irrigation development. No increase in rainfed farm income can be reported.
6.22      At appraisal, a separate ROR of 311 was estimated for the roads
component. The roads were constructed substantially as planned and with
little delays. Reportedly the traffic has increased in line with the original
expectation. Unit cost, however, was double that estimated. The sensitivity
analysis indicated that a doubling of costs would reduce the ROR of this
component to the level of the OCC. This is what seems to have occurred but
could be reduced if maintenance is not continued (para. 6.03).
6.23      The impact of the water supply component is likely to have reached
its expected impact as of the time of completion. Over the longer run, it
will depend on the level of maintenance (para. 6.04).
6.24      The impact of the RDF component was not estimated either at
appraisal or at completion. It is, however, reasonable to assume that the
impact of the RDF component would be about proportional to the number of
eubprojects successfully completed. Thus, it would be about 40% of the
original expectation (para. 6.14). Nevertheless, this component proved that
RDF can be an effective and flexible rural development tool, provided it is
properly planned and managed.
6.25      The institutional impact of the project was minimal.
6.26      The overall rate of return of the project is unlikely to be better
than zero to 5%.
7.        Sustainabilitv
7.01      Considering that the maintenance of those project components
satisfactorily completed, such as irrigation infrastructure, roads, and water
supply, is not adequate, and that the institutional component has fallen short
of expectation, it is difficult to be optimistic about the sustainability of
project achievements. It seems clear, however, that activities exist which



- 9 -
can be carried out effectively to benefit the target population. This would
require further external support including considerable technical assistance
and anchored by well thought out and followed-up conditions. The Government
has begun to initiate major policy actions which promise to improve the impact
of future project interventions. In recognition of the deficiencies
identified, and the lessons learned in this PCR, the follow-on project
(forestry and environmental protection), now under preparation, would focus
(in the context of raising agricultural productivity and the provision of
agricultural support services) on the development of appropriate technology,
greater participation of NGOs, and in general, keep the project small and
manag.-able with use of pilot activities.
8.        Bank and Borrower Performance
8.01      Between 1979 and 1982, the Bank together with the IBRD-PAO/CP and
donors, diligently carried out project identification and preparation in the
course of three CP missions and 19 first project supervision missions. In
general, identification work and preparation focussed on the right issues:
weak institutions, lack of qualified local staff, land tenure, unsatisfactory
availability of improved rainfed agriculture techniques, infrastructure
maintenance and cost recovery, water availability for irrigation at Grison
Garde, etc. Bank appraisal was competently carried out, generally following
up on the issues raised previously. The assurances recommended were
appropriate. On the downside, it could be argued that appraisal should have
awaited the completion of the FAC-financed survey (para. 6.12) and that the
potential of the rainfed "technical packages" wae overestimated. While the
tenurial problems on irrigable lands were fully appreciated, the effect on
cost recovery and on maintenance were not. Activities, such as extension and
research, were either poorly specified or else the agreements reached in their
regard with Government were not clearly understood by the parties concerned.
Supervision was frequent and generally focused on the right issues. The Bank
chould perhaps have pursued more vigorously the compliance with the spirit of
certain covenants, particularly those concerning the relative roles of ODN,
line agencies and consultants, infrastructure maintenance and cost recovery,
and submi.sion and execution of training plan. Of course the Bank could not
predict the political and institutional problems that prevailed during the
project life.
8.02      The performance of the Borrower was commendable in achieving many
of the physical objectives of the project under a most unstable environment.
Unfortunately, in spite of the efforts and motivation of project staff and
management, the developmental impact (paras. 6.18-6.25) and sustainability
(para. 7.01) of the project are in doubt. Experience shows that projects such
as this one, which are carried out in a challenging natural and human
environment are difficult to execute under the best of circumstances;
frequent changes in management and directions make it almost impossible.
8.03      Le"sons of the Proiect.  The following lessons from the project
apply, mutatis mutandis, to both the Bank and the Borrower:
(a)  The importance of clearly specifying the non-physical components of
the project, such as extension, research and technical assistance,
and of assuring the understanding and agreement of all parties
concerned should not be underestimated. Otherwise they are likely
to be affected by ad-hoc decision making and policy reversals;



- 10 -
(b) The capacity of executing agencies should be conservatively
evaluated. In a weak institutional environment, maximum uoe of
private agencies and NGOs (particularly to execute difficult
grassroot activities such as extension or organizing beneficiaries
for common purposes) should be made. In the context of those
activities reserved for the public sector, institutional building
should be pursued based on well designed and followed-up technical
assistance anchored by well thought out and enforced covenants;
(c) The matters under (a) and (b) above, require a positive but time
consuming dialogue between the Borrower and financiers. Therefore,
appraisal cannot be rushed. If external funds are required to
maintain either the physical or institutional infrastructure built
under an earlier project, interim financial arrangements should be
preferred to advancing appraisal. Appraisal should not precede the
availability of identified key studies;
(d) The feasibility of Borrower's obligations under intended covenants
should be investigated thoroughly in advance before negotiations
and, if necessary, should be adjusted to the circumstances. For
instance, the prevalence of tenant farmers in the irrigation
perimeters makes the collection of water charges unlikely:
different arrangements are needed;
(e) The ability of Government to provide funds to sustain or maintain
project achievements should be investigated at the macroeconomic
level. Existing meager budgetary resources are subject to
competing claims and their expansion is a function of development
which in turn requires a minimum of well functioning infrastructure
and institutions. Thus. until the fiscal base attains a certain
critical mass the only practical arrangement to assure maintenance
is to provide financing in follow-up projects;
(f) The RDF is a flexible and effective rural development tool,
particularly in a difficult agricultural environment. It permits
tailoring small-scale development activities to the perceived needs
of the beneficiaries. However, it requires clear and sound
eligibility criteria ae well as sufficient competent staff to
analyze and follow-up subprojects; and
(g) When implementing a project through a unit that has a titular
ministry, coordination issues, and delineation of responsibilities
have to be carefully analyzed and addressed in advance. In this
project there were latent tensions between ODN and MARNDR,
resulting in frequent changes in policies and procedures.
9.        Proiect Relationshios
9.01      In epite of the many issues that arose during the execution of the
project, the relationship between the Bank, the cofinanciers and the Borrower
were cordial and constructive. Project supervision was frequent and in the
course of the dialogue, the cofinanciers were able to persuade the Borrower to
focus on unexpected difficulties and to take corrective actions (para. 6.17).



- 11 -
10.       Consulting Services
10.01     The project cost provided for the hiring of 10 long-term
consultants. At the closing of the project, 85% of the monies provided for
these services had been spent. As mentioned before (para. 6.17), there were
some misunderstandings with the Borrower concerning the role of certain
consultants in spite of the clear definition of functions laid down in the
project documentation. The changes in management and directions also affected
the effectiveness of consultant services. For instance, between 1984 and 1986
the training specialist was actually assigned to do agricultural research in
the field. Nevertheless, by and large, consultants' services were effective;
part of the success in completing the project infrastructure as expected was
due to the interaction between consultants and local staff. The Borrower and
donors executed flexibly the consultant part of the project; certain studies
were commissioned (para. 6.17) and new specialists (ox-drawn cultivation) were
brought into the project as the need arose.
11.       Project Documentation
11.01     The appraisal report and the credit documents were clear and
comprehensive. Supervision reports generally addressed the key issues. As a
result of studies and surveys carried out by consultants and local agencies,
particularly the project's M&E services, abundant project literature was
produced which should provide a better informed basis for the future
development of the project area.



- 13 -
PR.OJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PPOJECT IN THE NORTH
(CREDIT 1410-HA)
PARTI II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower has completed a Full Project Completion Report (PCR).  Attached
io the unedited text of Borrower's PCR from which we have deleted the
descriptive portions of the report.  The Full PCR is available in LAC Files.



- 15 -
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.01        The North Plain, one of the regions in Haiti with most
agricultural potential, is an ideal place to attempt relatively high gaine in
both output and productivity. It is easily reached from the capital, Port-au-
Prince, by a paved highway. However, unlike numeroua other parts of the
country, it does not consist solely of small commercially oriented family
farmst there are also various large estates or plantations that use employed
manpower and comparatively nonintensive production methods (.9ugarcane,
livestock farming on the extensive system, etc.).
1.02        The project suffered greatly from the lack of any master plan for
rural development in the Departments of the North and Northeast. Numerous
uncertainties still affect everything to do with the future of sugarcane in
the region, plans for government-owned land, and the types of farmer on whom
efforts to promote agricultural development will be focused.
1.03        The project also suffered greatly as a result of the political and
social unrest that preceded and followed the fall of the Jean-Claude Duvalier
regime in February 1986, and was manifested principally in takeovers of land
by poor rural groups, numerous staffing changes in the Civil Service,
considerable smuggling, and a very significant drop in the price of food
products.
1.04        The Organization for the Development of the North (ODN), the
agency responsible for the project, bore the full brunt of the ensuing
political and social repercussions, the results of which included no fewer
than six changes of director in six years, partial temporary suspension of
activities between December 1986 and April 1987, several administrative
reorganizations, continual changes of focus and major time overruns in the
conduct of the agricultural segment of the project.
1.05        The lack of continuity in agricultural development activities was
also partly the result of IDA staff turnover: no fewer than three individuals
were responsible at different times for monitoring this component, the main
reference document available to them being an appraisal report that was
unrealistic as far as project goals were concerned and vague as to the
resources that were to be brought into play.
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
(B) Preparation and Appraisal
2.01        An initial preparation mission (FAO/CP) in May 1981 examined the
possibility of a rural development project without a sugarcane component. In
addition to its proposals on rural infrastructure, the mission concluded that
foodcrop development could best be promoted by using the traditional crop
association practices followed in the North but employing the improved
varieties selected during the First Rural Development Project in the North
(RDN I). Comparatively limited goals were set for extending irrigated areas,
given the difficulties encountered in this sphere during execution of RDN I.



- 16 -
It wa understood also that a second mission was to identify and describe the
series of problems associated with sugar production and sugarcane growing in
the North.
2.02        A second preparation mission undertaken a year later, in May 1982,
spelled out the objectives for the various components of the project:
infrastructure (roads and water supply), irrigation, water management, applied
research and seed production, extension, farm credit, institutional
strengthening, training for farmers and other personnel, etc. This mission,
too, concluded that a fuller range of information on sugar production in the
North was needed before a recommenlation could be made regarding a sugarcane
component.
2.03        A foreign consulting firm then commissioned to study the problem
of sugar production advised that the chief obstacle was the way the privately-
owned processing plant (the Citadelle mill) and cane collection were managed;
in addition, the ecological conditions under which sugarcane was grown were
not always the most appropriate (faulty drainage). The consequences of the
structural decline in world sugar prices (except for the quotas sold at
preferential prices to the US), and of the fact that the largest landowners
were absentees, appear to have been largely underestimated, however.
2.04        At the time of the IDA appraisal mission in September-October
1982, the sugar mill had just been bought up by Banque Natlonale de Cridir
d'HaXei, with assurances that everything would be done to rehabilitate the
plant, under a management contract, as soon as possible. As a result, a
sugarcane component -- designed to concentrate sugar plantations within a
relatively limited area and to rehabilitate them gradually with improved
varieties -- was added to the project late.
2.05        Generally speaking, the benefits of RDN I were largely
overestimated at the time of preparation and appraisal of the agricultural
component of RDN II. The chief misconception was the belief that it was
possible to increase tae production of rainfed crops rapidly merely through
extension work to disseminate simple technical messages (use of improved seed,
introduction of varieties selected during RDN I, etc.). The assumption that
the yield potential of the varieties traditionally cultivated would be the
chief limiting factor was at least arguable, given the very nature of rainfe
farming in a highly unpredictable climate. Furthermore, the studies and
research conducted as part of RDN I did not make it possible to predict the
impact of new grain and tuber varieties on smallholder crop-association
patterns.
2.06        The difficulties with irrigation and water management encountered
during the first project were assessed realistically, although the evaluators
nevertheless slightly overestimated potential increments in yield and output
from the rehabilitation of small irrigation networks during the second
project.
2.07        In the absence of any real classification of farms according to
type, it was impossible to predict how different groups if farmere would
behave or react to the technical practices advocated. The k'ey error was to



- 17 -
assume that all farmers would be interested in intensifying crop production
and possessed the means of increasing yields.
2.08        The reasons why ODN went considerably beyond its initial
coordinating/financing/planning function, becoming the executing agency at the
time of the first project, have been insufficiently analyzed, while the
beneficial influence such an entity was capable of exercising on the
development of national institutions was seriously overestimated. ODN's
assigned role as regards the agricultural component of the second project was
consequently formulated in ambiguous terms, in the sense that A real
distinction was not always drawn between actions where ODN shouid limit itself
strictly to a coordination function and those where it should attend to all or
part of the execution process.
III. EXECUTION
(A)   Intervening Period
3.01        Between the end of RDN I (December 1982) and actual start-up of
RDN II (October 1983), FAC -- Fund for Aid and Cooperation (France) --
continued to provide ODN with support by making two (and then three) experts
available to its Monitoring and Evaluation Division and R & D Division, so
that they could join forces on a study of the realities of the farm world in
the Departments of the North and Northeast. Such a study was warranted in
view of plans to extend ODN's jurisdiction to new districts, since collection
of detailed data on zones identified for future intensive development was
regarded as indispensable. Conducted between April 1983 and January 1984, it
covered 11 zones considered to be representative as far as farming practices
and agro-ecological conditions were concerned, revealing the diversity of
conditions under which smallholders farmed in the horth and drawing the
attention of agricultural specialists to the need to always take full account
of the interests and know-how that farmers brought to the exercise of their
occupation. When published in January 1984, it confirmed the generally
(correct] or mistaken nature of some of the recommendations made in the
Appreisal Report, enabling ODN to reformulate its technical messages and
redraw the boundaries of the districts that were to be priority targets.
Several of the messages selected at this time were thus implemented, with
varying degrees of continuity and perseverance, throughout the project period
(varietal improvement, small-scale irrigation, use of animal traction, input
supply systems, drying floors, etc.), while others were unfortunately given
only very sporadic attention (anti-erosion measures incorporated as part of
smallholder production systems, restocking of pig herds with hardy breeds,
etc.).
(B)   Proiect Start-up
3.02        The Credit Agreement was signed on September 9, 1983, although the
results of the study conducted during the intervening period were still not
available in fuil. However, since all the conditions for project
effectiveness incorporated in the Agreement had not been met at the time,



- 18 -
financial difficulties arose during the initial months and the project did not
really get under way until February 1984.
3.03        The late arrival of the civil engineering and irrigation
consultants led to some delays in start-up of work on rural infrastructure and
irrigation-system administration.
3.04        Activities in the agricultural arena (extension, R & D, seed
multiplication, farm credit, etc.) were begun despite the lack of any basic
strategy decisions or real coordination among the different entities
responsible. For a lengthy period, there were uncertainties about the
importance that should be accorded to training and about the content of
training curricula; the consultant who was to have been responsible for these
tasks was transferred at an early date to the R & D arena. The arrival in
1984 of the consulting expert on sugarcane enabled ON to revive its activity
in this arena, although, given the contents of the study made during the
intervening period, caution should have been a primary concern.
3.05        The massive employment of unskilled/underqualified personnel
(field agents, messengers, guards, typists, etc.), the difficulties
encountered in project administration, and the disorganization affecting most
service entities rapidly led the donors to suggest a study that would promote
the adoption of new management practices and procedures by ODN. Carried out
in December 1984 by an expatriate consulting firm, it did not lead to any
reorganization of the agency's management structure until August 1985.
(O)   Project Operations
3.06        The first change in the directorship of ODN was made in October
1984, following the appointment of a new Minister of Agriculture. It was this
new director who was to implement part of the administrative reform program
advocated by the consulting firm. The principal element in the program was
the creation of five new Divisions, for which highly qualified and highly paid
professionals were to be recruited. The Agriculture Division decided to
concentrate most of its activities in five operating zones, each of them the
responsibility of a qualified agronomist:
Zone I:     Grison Garde, Plaine du Nord
Zone II:    Quartier Morin-Bord de Mer-Limonade
Zone III:   St. Raphael
Zone IV:    Grande Rivi6re du Nord
Zone V:     Grand Bassin-Terrier Rouge-Quanaminthe
3.07        Expenses rose significantly because of increased salary costs,
coming on line of rural infrastructure, construction of new buildings
(offices, garage, sugarcane analysis laboratory, computing activities center),
purchases of equipment (tractors, drain cleaners, hothouses, etc.), and
execution of subprojects financed by the Rural Development Fund.
3.08        In 1985, the Ministry of Agriculture decided that the entire
responsibility for extension programs in the North was to be transferred to
ODN. Taken uni'Aterally, this decision was absolutely contradictory to the



- 19 -
Agreements signed in 1983 by the Ministry and ODN, which had stipulated that
the Ministry was to serve as executing agency.
3.09        The focus of farming development programs was changed sharply, as
a result of: almost complete suspension of agricultural research, coming into
operation of irrigation infrastructure at St. Raphael, slowing down of
farmer-support operations (animal traction, input supply outlets, drying
facilities, etc.), and the priority given to sugarcane. An especially
equipped area of the government-owned Madras Plantation was set aside for
production of cuttings of potentially high-yield and smut-resistant varieties.
A 177-m2 laboratory for analytical work was built on the grounds of the sugar-
processing mill. This degree of emphasis on sugarcane growing was largely a
result of the conclusions reached in a May-June 1984 study of the farming
sector sponsored by the World Bank. Mainly concerned with identifying
comparative advantages, it demonstrated that sugarcane production costs in
Haiti were low and that problems occurred mainly at the processing stage.
However, the error committed by its designers was to forget that smallholders
in the North Plain region who rely on the labor of their own families are
often more concerned to grow plantains or other fooderops. Large-scale
planters, even if they generally have capital to invest, are not necessarily
prepared to put a lot of it into agriculture when other activities (commerce,
real estate, etc.) can give better rates of return. Generally speaking, they
content themselves with production systems of the extensive type, which
require relatively low per-hectare levels of investment -- and sugarcane, for
instance, fits the bill, since plantations are still only infrequently
renewed. It was thus mistaken to believe that sugar planters would be
prepared to restock their land entirely in five years, so that their annual
harvests would eventually consist entirely of high-yield varieties -- a
mistake pointed up by the subsequent history of the project.
3.10        After the fall of the Jean-Claude Duvalier regime and inauguration
of a National Council of Government, an individual prominent in Cap Haitien
was appointed director of ODN in March 1986, in the hope this would lead to
achievement of some degree of consensus in the region. Despite certain
innovative ideas (specifically, on extension services and rehabilitation of
irrigation networks), the new director did not really succeed in imposing his
authority. Delays in budget preparation soon resulted in failure on the part
of the Government to transfer counterpar: funds to the agency.  The drastic
shrinking of cash flows, ODN's excessive administration costs and a fuel
shortage throughout the country were all factors that contributed to the
slowing down of ODN activities which began in May-June 1986. The hiring of an
internal auditor in September 1986 did not result in a return to orderly
financial management, and the director himself was dismissed on December 15
following a demonstration by agency employees.
3.11        After a brief period of management by three of the agronomists
representing the Ministry of Agriculture in the North, ODN was temporarily
shut down between December 31, 1986 and February 4, 1987, the date ahen a new
director was designated. The agricultural development and clean water supply
components of the project were the most seriously affected by this situation
to a particular degree, although it proved possible nevertheless to continue



- 20 -
with some activities, thanks to FAC financial support and ongoing German and
French technical assistance.
3.12        When ODN resumed its operations, the fourth director, acting on
repeated recommendations by the World Bank, began a reorganization of ODN,
whose functions were henceforward limited to general responsibility for the
project and coordinating action programs. Particular components were
entrusted on a contractual basis to different executing agencies: to the
Ministry ,f Agriculture, activities in the farming arena; to the TPTCs, road
building; to SEPRRN, road maintenance; to SNEP, water supply works; to a
foreign contracting firm, the construction of main roads; etc. As of April
1987, project activities began to gather speed again. In the farming arena,
priority was assigned to rehabilitating irrigation networks and developing
farm plots at St. Raphael and Grison Garde. The programs associated with
sugarcane production were gradually abandoned. A study commissioned by the
Ministry of the Economy and Finance, (funded by the World Bank and published
in May 1988) was to conclude that sugarcane was an underlying cause of the
very low creation of value added in the agro-ecological and socioeconomic
conditions existing in the North Plain region. The sugarcane plantations set
up to provide planters with shoots of high-yielding varieties disappeared
completely in February 1989, following the occupation of Madras Plantation by
poor smallholders.
3.13        Cooperation arrangements with the French authorities came to an
end in December 1987, the date initially scheduled for completion of the
project; the cost of th-i technical assistance made available under them was
taken over partly by ODI0, with funding from the World Bank. The closing date
of the IDA Credit war fA.rst extended to June 30, 1988, and subsequently to
June 30, 1989 (with disbursement possibilities available until December 1989).
3.14        New appoiriLnments to the ODN directorship were made in July and
November 1988, but caused little interruption ir the continuity of agency
operations. The clean X -ier program was virtually completed in the second
quarter of FY88/89.  The  ontractors responsible for building 116 km of rural
roads completed their contractual obligations in November 1988; the
maintenance program for rc ds built during RDN I was certified as completed in
September of the same yea-; and the rehabilitation of irrigation systems at
St. Raphael and Grison Gat:Ve was virtuelly completed by July 1989.
3.15        As far as the agricultural development component of the project is
concerned, however, we are forced to note that the objectives in view were a
long way from being achieved. While remarkable progress was made by a small
number of farmers in the irrigated sectors of St. Raphael and Grison Garde,
the same was not true of rainfed crop districts, where the project never
really came up with any appropriate technical recommendations. Rapid
productivity grins would have been possible in the districts devoted to
sugarcane and to livestock farming on the extensive system, except that land
redistribution became a factor in the picture.



- 21 -
IV.    RQJECT CMOMPOENTS
(A)   Irriaation
4.01        Rehabilitation of the St. Raphael irrigation area continued as
planned, and the area now irrigable in the dry season totals 725 ha. Thanks
to better water management and to the plot development techniques advocated
through the project, the total irrigated surface area under vegetables
increased very considerably (by 93% over 5 years), paddy yields more than
doubled, and farmer incomes increased on average by $400-700/ha/year.
Advances with such labor-intensive crops as rice, vegetables, and tobacco
increased the demand for hired labor significantly, which was met from the
large reserves of manpower available in rainfed and hilly farming areas.
4.02        For lack of any prior arrangement with IDA, rehabilitation of the
Grison Garde irrigation area was undertaken in conjunction with the Rural
Development Fund in a succession of small tranches of less than US$20,000
e%ch. Accompanied by an intensive plot development and R & D/training effort,
i'rrigation has allowed an area of approximately 170-200 ha to be devoted to
intensive ricegrowing (two crops a year).
4.03        Water management, payment of water charges by irrigators, and
organization of users for system maintenance have continued to pose problems
at both St. Raphagl and Grison Garde. Although ODN has proposed new
mechanisms for solving them, there is no real indication that this will be
enough to keep irrigation at an optimum level in the future.
(B)   Agricultural Development
4.04        The agricultural component of RDN II was designed initially to
facilitate general dissemination of the technical messages which were believed
to have been finalized during the course of RDN I. On the subject of
extension services, preparatory project documentation indicated that messages
to smallholders would be simple, and that progress in cropgrowing achieved
through the project would mostly be a matter of using good seed of varieties
selected for yield and hardiness. According to the Appraisal Report,
extension services were to cover 8,000 ha of rainfed cropland and 920 ha of
irrigated cropland; one third of the 20,000 full-time farmers in the region
were to be targeted, on a basis of one extension agent per 260 farms. Very
significant increases in yield were anticipated for food crops (grains,
tubers, food legumes, plantains, etc.), vegetables, tobacco, sugarcane, cocoa,
and fruits.
4.05        It quickly became apparent at the outset of RDN II that the legacy
of technical messages from RDN I was very small. The most available at that
time were some results from work on varieties: irrigated rice CICA 7 and
CICA 8, cassava CMC 40, smut-resistant sugarcane, etc. Diagnostic work done
in the interval between the two projects had produced a number of suggestions
for new extension messages (animal traction, drying floors, input supply
outlets, restocking of pig herds, etc.); however, since local data on these
areas of interest left much to be desired, it was considered advisable to
conduct trials with local farmers first. While ODN's R & D Division was



- 22 -
intent initially on working up the kinds of material suggested by the
diagnostic study, its Extension Division recruited numerous field agents to
promote not always appropriate techniqu,e (composting).
4.06        As a result of the general reorganization of ODN in 1985, its
extension services and R & D efforts as such were swallowed up in a huge
"agricultural component" that was supposed to include varietal selection, seed
multiplication, beekeeping, cultivation of fruit trees, irrigation, plot
development, etc. The priority action zones were reduced in number to five,
and emphasis was put on extension at the expense of R & D. A beginning was
made with disseminating a number of new messages (animal traction, drying
floors, etc.). Others, however, required fine-tuning, which meant organizing
numerous on-farm demonstration trials -- each with a threefold purpose:
experiment with a new technique, introduce it to farmers, and provide the
necessery training in it. Demonstration trials thus became the vehicles for
gradually refining techniques and disseminating them rapidly among farmers --
techniques of plot development, for instance, and the technical "packages" now
successfully used to provide instruction in growing rice and market-garden
crops on irrigated plots developed for the purpose (St. Raphael and Grison
Garde).   These are complex technical "packages," use of which tends to spread
spontaneously, through imitation, to interested farmers, and not the simple,
standard messages that had been envisaged initially.
4.07        It must be recognized, however, that the progressive approach
(i.e., associating R & D closely with training and farmer participation) did
not always prevail in the various project zones. Cut off from the processes
of research and on-the-job training, extension was often irresolute and not as
determined and persevering as necessary. This was the case, for instance,
with beekeeping (where regular follow-up was neglected), or tree crops (where
little importance was given to working with smaliholders), or sugarcane (a
crop, however, in which few farmers were actually interested). Agricultural
development was also very adversely affected by the rigidities in the
Agricultural Credit Bureau's procedures and practices for granting loans, by
the frequent. disruptions in the supply and availability of inputs, and by the
lack of coordination between field agents and the service units located on
Grand Pr6 Plantation (nursery, seed multiplication, varietal research, etc.).
The agronomists responsible for managing the project zones never had the
financial autonomy (i.e., the necessary working capital) to manage day-to-day
operations, while any measures they took were undermined by bureaucratic
complications (problems with fuel, repairs, overtime payments, etc.). The
over-centralized decision process and the lack of any real delegation of
responsibility down to the project-zone level deprived both zone managers and
field agents of the necessary flexibility in doing their job&.
4.08        The number of farmers who benefited in 1989 from the various
facets of the agricultural component definitely did not exceed 5,000, or 80%
of the number initially foreseen, once the project had settled into its normal
operating pattern. Various crops for which a full-scale extension effort was
planned finally received only scant attention: tobacco (probably as a result
of the withdrawal of the Comme I1 Faur company from the North Plain),
plantains (despite their importance on the humid plains), cocoa trees (except
for distribution of young plants), and certain food legumes. The most



- 23 -
neglectrid zones appear to have been Quartier Morin, Grand Rivibre du Nord and
Camp Louise (abandoned in 1985).
(C)   Pam Credi
4.09        The farm credit program was also seriously affected by the
rigidity and slow pace of Agricultural Credit Bureau procedures. Only 472
loans were made to 285 applicants, for a total of US$620,260. Of this amount,
861 was approved for short-term loans and 141 for medium-term financing.  Most
loans were made for agricultural purposes (food-crops, livestock, animal
traction) and the beneficiaries were small and medium farming enterprises.
The rate of recovery has never been any more than poor (52S).
(D)   Rural Roads
4.10        The goal to build or rehabilitate 116 km of roads was achieved,
with the 13 sections in which work was completed actually totaling 117 km.
The roads appear to have helped significantly in opening up the zones where
they are located. One 25-km section, leading to Vallieres, which was not
provided for in the initial project designs, was built over a less than ideal
route and therefore still carries a very low volume of traffic.
4.11        Road building costs proved considerably higher than the figures
anticipated at the time of project appraisal: US$43,400/km instead of
US$21,760 for roads crossing plains and US$46,700/km instead of US$25,680 for
mountain roads. Road maintenance is an ever-present problem and is not always
adequately monitored.
(E)   Water SUD21V
4.12        Numerical goals for the project's water supply component were
accomplished, despite some delays: 22 village water-supply systems were
completed and three others were under construction by July 1989; 91 new wells,
62 of them deep, were sunk and 116 old ones rehabilitated. However, a major
problem has proven to be the types of well and equipment (hand- or motor-
pumps) chosen, exacerbated by shortcomings in maintenance and repairs; as a
result, numerous users are without running or drinkable water.
(F)   Rural Development Fund (FDR)
4.13        A wide range of subprojects was carried out with FDR resources,
although most involved the creation of community-based infrastructure:
markets, schools, social centers, bridges, public squares, solar power
systems, etc. However, directly productive investments were rare, and many of
the subprojects, of little interest from the development standpoint, were
undertaken for reasons of prestige. In the agricultural sphere, too little
advantage was taken of FDR potential: some fishery units and livestock
facilities were certainly set up, but they were few and far between; little
importance was given to restocking farms with hardy aative breeds of pig; soil
conservation operations went ahead in a haphazard fashion, and some were no
more than pretexts for local people to earn wages. In all, over a six-year
period, FDR disbursed US$474,000, but the resulting impact on the economic



- 24 -
development and welfare of beneficiary groups was not on the same scale. The
responsibilities of the principal (ODN) should doubtless have been more
clearly separated from those of its various agents, while stricter procedures
for monitoring and taking eventual delivery of subprojects should have gone
hand in hand with the use of very precise statements of contractual conditions
and specifications.
V.   ]gQLE AND EVOLVEMENT OF INSTITUTIONS
(A)   Institutional DeveloDment
5.01        One of the effects of the project not measurable in terms of
figures was to be the positive influence it would have on the development of
the country's institutions, at both the regional and national levels. Sound
performance by ODN would serve as a model for other development programs,
whether on the North Plain or in other regions:  for instance, one of the
project goals was to strengthen the management and maintenance capabilities of
entities responsible for irrigation.
5.02        As a result of the difficulties encountered in the course of
RDN I, it vas agreed that ODN's major function during RDN II would be to
finance and coordinate the various executing agencies (Ministry of
Agriculture, SEPRRN, SNEP, the TPTCs, etc.), with which subcontracting
agreements were to be signed. However, this principle was not adhered to from
the outset in the agriculture sector, and ODN soon formed its own research and
extension teams, thus showing up this type of arrangement as a fine example of
how not to run a rural development venture. Cumbersome to manage and expected
to disburse considerable sums in a very short time, ODN proved incapable of
steering either efforts or investments toward the kinds of activity likely to
be most productive and most useful to the community. Its chief shortcoming
was that it was never able to limit its role to that of a mere financing and
coordinating agency in the agricultural arena. The situation improved
somewhat after a subcontracting agreement was signed with the Ministry of
Agriculture in 1987, although ODN never disbanded its own group of development
agents, whose functions remained ill-defined in many instances.
5.03        RDN II suffered the ill-effects of real laxity in the conduct of
agricultural operations, and also in the allocation of human and financial
resources, which did not always coincide with the requirements of production
and profitability. The hiring of a very large number of poorly qualified
employees was more indicative of a concern to create wage-earning
opportunities immediately than to achieve effectiveness and prompt program
execution, but ODN became the foremost employer in the North. Significant
sums were also swallowed up in building programs (offices, garages,
laboratories, hot houses, computing activity center, erc.) or purchases of
equipment (automobiles, tractors, office equipment, etc.), the economic and
social utility of which was a long way from being satisfactorily demonstrated.
The management structure proposed in 1985 by a foreign consulting firm did not
put an end to red tape. The creation of new upper-level management positions
and the recruitment of highly-paid personnel led more to an increase in
expenditure than to anything else, while ODN's excessively high administration



- 25 -
costs quickly absorbed the meager counterpart funds available. Hiring of an
internal auditor, reorganization of ODN in 1987, and the emergence of the
Ministry of Agriculture as executing agency helped improve the situation
somewhat, although not all problems were eliminated. Under very considerable
pressure to spend the sums allocated to the project budget, ODN did not always
choose the most productive investments, particularly with FDR. What is
apparent here is a defect inherent in almost all projects where major sums are
to be spent within a short time period: it is quicker and easier to have
buildings constructed, buy heavy equipment and recruit an over-large staff
than to draw technicians and farmers gradually into a research/development
approach. However, the experience gained from this very project demonstrates
that it is this second option which is the most fruitful as far as
agricultural development is concerned. With hindsight, there is no escaping
the fact that the few operations that produced results during RDN II
(intensive irrigated ricegrowing on smallholder plots specifically developed
for the purpose, input supply outlets, use of animal traction, etc.) were
precisely those where efforts and expenditure were kept to a steady pace --
without overstaffing or overambitious building.
5.04        RDN II was put at a great disadvantage by the numerous changes of
director and the juggling of staff they almost inevitably involved. The very
size of the project budget could not fail to attract the attention of
politicians in the situation of general instability that prevailed between
1984 and 1989, so that the various ministerial reshufflings were almost all
accompanied by changes in the orientation of the project. Changes in
appointments affected not only Haitian civil servants and staff members but
also expatriate staff, whe were not always able to play the part initially
assigned to them in training local cour.terpart personnel and strengthening the
country's institutions. This largely explains the withdrawal of FAC in 1987,
and the wish on the part of GTZ to see the St. Raphael operations managed as
an increasingly independent subproject. Similarly, short-term missions did
not always have the anticipated impact, since their conclusions were not
necessarily passed on to, or shared by, the different senior management teams
that succeeded one another.
5.05        Except for the steps taken to improve management and mainten&ace
of the St. Raphael irrigation area, RDN II did very little to foster the
emergence of smallholder organizations capable of taking their own affairs in
hand and themselves managing development programs. Instead, the fact that
employment opportunities were created for the rural population in such an ill-
considered manner made smallholders less accountable in numerous spheres and
reinforced their dependence on the public coffers. At the same time, the
instability prevailing in government circles pointed up the urgent need to
entrust most development programs to local authorities, NGOs, producer
associations and user committees.
5.06        Project accounts were always maintained correctly.  However, the
accounting system was useless for project management purposes. Organized to
fit in with the presentation to donors of monthly applications for payment of
cumulative expenses (technical assistance) and reimbursement of expenditures
incurred, the classification of expenses had no connection with the activity
categories used in operating plans and periodic progress reports. Accounting



- 26 -
terminology covering allocation of budget funds by activity was settled once
and for all in 1985, but the operations engaged in subsequently did not always
correspond with those envisaged iritially; this meant that they had to be
designated by terms that had little connection with the facts, simply so that
they would fit in with accounting conventions. For instance, expenses
associated with the development and dissemination of techniques of intensive
irrigated ricegrowing were posted at St. Raphael to the category "Plot
Development," while at Grison Garde the same types of expense were posted to
"Varietal Improvement." This type of muddle, needless to say, did absolutely
nothing to facilitate management and guidance of the project.
5.07        The input and processing of accounting data previously verified by
the Internal Audit Division presented no great problem, although numerous
instances of having to carry forward from one document to another made the
whole process quite cumbersome. It would doubtless be wise to develop a
computerized system for processing accounting data which is founded on data
bases that allow primary information to be classified by various methods for a
wide range of users:
-     classification by categories of expenditure and posting, for the
general balance;
-     classification by categories of administrative and activities
expenditure, for cost accounting purposes;
-     classification by categories of donor expenditure;
-     etc.
Such a system should help ODN to carry out its coordinating and
control functions better, provided careful thought is given beforehand to
definition of tasks and delegation of responsibilities.
(B)   Personnel Training
5.08        Beginning in 1987, considerable emphasis was placed on continuing
practical training for project staff working in ODN's areas of action, and
particularly on how to program and evaluate their own work. A large
proportion of their more formal training was subcontracted out, beginning in
July 1987, to the Ecole Moyenne d'Agrlculture at Dondon (EMAD). Following a
survey among agents who received this type of training, it was decided to
institute a monthly three-day seminar there, which became a fairly regular
feature. The chief subjects dealt with were seed multiplication,
fertilization of irrigated rice, conduct of demonstration trials, calculation
as applied to agriculture, etc., the idea being to associate training in
technical matters with training in the general discipline of thinking. Staff
working in input supply outlets also received training -- in how to advise
farmers on methods of employing the products sold (fertilizers, plant health
products, etc.). It is regrettable that the project agronomists did not take
a more active interest in training their own agents for the extension goals
they themselves set, instead of leaving it to the Training Division for the



- 27 -
most part. The agents often regarded these training seminars as welcome
intervals in their working life.
5.09        Retraining sessions were also organized for the group of
agronomists, often taking the form of organized "chats" on subjects of general
or special interest. Great emphasis was placed on filling in and relying on
the monitoring protocols developed for the interpretation of demonstration
trials. It became clear th4ii this activity, since it takes place at the point
where research and developmen- meet, can contribute greatly to the self-
training of supervisory staff, provided the processes of observation and
interpretation are conducted with strict scientific rigor.
5.10        Considerable effort was put into drawing up and publishing
documents likely to contribute to the ongoing training of both agronomists and
extension agents, although still wider use could be made of them. Many of the
results of RDN II have also been incorporated into a textbook intended for use
in the Faculty of Agricultural Science and Veterinary Medicine at Damien.
(C)   Monitoring and Evaluation
5.11        ODN's Monitoring and Evaluation Division experienced a greater
degree of continuity throughout the project than any of its other
organizational units. Division responsibilities remained the same at all
times: to keep project managers and donors advised of progress with project
operations and of problems encountered during implementation; and to evaluate
the real impact of the project on rural development in the region and on the
welfare of its population. Although the purpose of monitorlng and evaluation
was to facilitate "steering" of the project through the execution process, the
numerous changes that occurred at different levels (Government, donors,
directorship and divisional management of ODN, etc.) frequently meant that
full use was not made of the findings generated.
5.12        Monitoring consisted mainly in issuing regular progress reports on
the full range of project components, for the benefit of project management
staff (internal distribution) and ministries and donors concerned (external
distribution). Description of key achievements, and comparisons against
quarterly and annual planning schedules, provided the basis for assessing
progress with both physical and financial execution. One difficulty Wvs that
staff members directly responsible for project operations were frequently late
in filing their reports. They appear to have been reluctant to respond to the
concerns of the Monitoring and Evaluation Division, believing its chief
function to be the tracking of staff performance, although many of them also
wondered how accurately the operating data they provided would be interpreted.
This type of resistance was particularly strong among the group of university-
trained agronomists, who had never previously been required by their
supervisory ministry (Agriculture) to engage in this type of exercise.
Ultimately, of course, the quality of monitoring/evaluation work done depended
on the quality of project staff members and their commitment to the soundness
of the project.
5.13        Not enough attention was paid to the kind of data that might have
indicated benchmark points in the ongoing analysis of change in the rural



- 28 -
environment. Some indicators gave a picture of technical, economic and social
changes that were direct consequences of project operations, but these were
only rare observations and measurements providing any regular intelligence on
changes related indirectly or quite unrelated to the project (prices, wages,
employment, marketing, etc.). Market prices for agricultural products have
been monitored regularly since RDN I, but the data compiled has not been
processed so far. It is thanks entirely to the many evaluations of specific
subject areas made at project start-up and throughout the execution process
that any analysis of change in the rural world has been possible at all.
5.14        Numerous studies and surveys were undertaken, mainly at the
request of the Finance Division, to asses the real impact of particular
project operations on rural development. Numerous short, good-quality
memoranda on the more elaborate materials of this kind were produced, and
frequently based on careful examination of the Appraisal Report dating from
the inter-project period. Evaluation of agricultural development operations
appears to have been the chief concern, although there is an almost complete
absence of studies on the programs that were seriously interrupted:
sugarcane, fruit trees, soil conservation, beekeeping, etc. Assessment of the
impact of access roads on agricultural development, although planned, did not
eventuate; today, the resulting gap seriously limits the possibility of
evaluating the overall impact of the project with all its components.
5.15        The Monitoring and Evaluation Division gradually assembled a
collection of project or project-related documents. In time, this became the
"imemory" and library of the project, very quickly proving to be a vital
resource in view of project staff turnover and organizational changes,
especially after it was reorganized to improve user access to its contents.
Although it may not yet be everyone's first impulse to consult the many
project documents available, it is nevertheless clear today that much remains
to be done to classify the scientific and technical gains achieved through the
project and to make information on them accessible to the greatest possible
number of interested individuals.
5.16        The computerization process (equipment and training) was fully
successful. The system is used mainly in processing survey data and setting
up programming schedules. Various data bases were put together from the
records of the Monitoring and Evaluation Division (e.g., irrigation-system
water users, borrowers of ODN funds through the Agricultural Credit Bureau,
etc.), most of which were made available to the service entities concerned.
5.17        Although the Monitoring and Evaluation Division itself was
consulted as such on only very few occasions by the directors of ODN and their
advisors regarding questions of general project focus, they had the benefit of
numerous informal consultations. For lack of any real determination to define
explicit objectives and delegate responsibilities accordingly, the planning
function within ODN was never really put on any formal basis; each director
simply followed his own policy, as circumstances dictated. In the end, this
meant that the results of quantity surveys and other measurements of project
impact could not be judged against any standard other then the general project
objectives as set out in the Appraisal Report.



- 29 -
5.18        IDA supervision missions were very regular and helped to limit --
to some degree -- the effects of the changes of direction and other upheavals
that affected the project, even though the political environment during the
implementation period was very unsettled. IFAD kept a very low profile during
RDN II, leavir3 the task of supervision to IDA.
VI.         FINANCIAL RESULTS
6.01        In order to facilitate payment procedures and rapidly give ODN
adequate working capital, IDA and IFAD advanced sums to it in the form of
deposits with the Bank of the Republic of Haiti. In 1984, they made an
initial deposit of US$478,143, replenishing it on three occasions in 1985 and
1986, to the point where it totaled US$940,628. Drawings against these
deposits were matched by applications for reimbursement addressed to IDA and
IFAD.
6.02        The contribution from the Government of Haiti, estimated initially
at US$1.6 million, had risen to approximately US$2.523 million by March 1989,
or 582 more than had been anticipated. This contribution was made chiefly in
the form of salaries paid directly by the Treasury to civil service staff
assigned to the project; from 1987 onwards, it was increased by the basic
salaries of the employees of ODN's Coordination Bureau. The Government was
also responsible for the counterpart contribution to such expenditure
categories as its share of the maintenance of water supply systems and its 22S
of the SEPRRN invoice for road system maintenance. The pattern of government
spending on the project was quite irregular, with a very marked peak in
1984/85, a period of very heavy recruitment, and a very significant trough in
1985/86, during the events which preceded and followed the fall of Jean-Claude
Duvalier. The overrun in the Government's contribution was mainly the result
of its meeting salary costs during the two years by which the project
execution period was extended.
6.03        Cooperation arrangements with Germany and France (through GTZ and
FAC, respectively) involved grants which financed a major proportion of
technical assistance costs. Although estimated initially at US$2.238 million,
the GTZ contribution rose to approximately US$3.1 million between October 1983
arid March 1989, an overrun very largely due to the fact that technical
assistance from this quarter had to be continued beyond the originally
scheduled project completion date. FAC's contribution was limited to the
US$1.5 million initially estimated, its place being taken by IDA/IFAD from
January 1988 onwards.
6.04        The Appraisal Report estimated total project cost at
US$29,152,000. As of March 31, 1989, actual project expenditure totaled
US$31,934,000, a very slight overrun (9.5Z) due mainly to payment of salaries
and technical assistance costs during the period by which the project was
extended.
6.05        Expenditure on ODN coordination, personnel training, and monitoring
and evaluation exceeded the original estimate by US$4.2 million, an overrun of
103Z, and represented over 25% of all expenditure incurred. Two thirds of



- 30 -
this sum was absorbed by payroll and technical assistance costs. Consultants
alone accounted for approximately 302 of the "Coordination" category, only
half of which was financed from grante.
6.06        Activities associated with agricultural development (extension,
R & D, plot development, etc.) accounted for 23% of total project expenditure,
with an overrun of 502 above initial estimates; over half was absorbed in
payroll costs, to which was added technical assistance financed entirely from
grants. Roughly half of all the Ministry of Agriculture expenditure on the
agricultural development component was spent on seed multiplication and tree-
crop promotion, although with little impa t at field level.  More than
anything else, this reflects the propensity of the project to commit to
expenditure on government-owned plantations (Grand Prd, Chabert, Madras, etc.)
without too much thought for the question of subsequent benefit to
smallholders. Activity to promote sugarcane as a crop (limited to
distribution of some 400 metric tons of young plants) alone cost US$669,000,
or 9.12 of all expenditure on agricultural activities (although it is true
that technical assistance, financed under a grant, accounted for 432 of this
figure). In contrast, activities associated with the sale of inputs from tbe
outlets set up by ODN accounted for only 6% of all expenditure on agricultural
development, despite the importance of the outlets in enhancing the value of
irrigated areas and the expectations among smallholders that outlets would be
expanded and improved.
6.07        The irrigation and water supply budget was executed almost in its
entirety for the original estimate, without any cost overruns. On the other
hand, final expenditure on rural road construction and maintenance exceeded
Appraisal Report estimates by a very wide margin of 65.72.
6.08        The Rural Development Fund, endowed with US$1.5 million, was
utilized entirely, despite the slow pace at which loans were granted early in
the project period. Nearly half of RDF resources (48%) were disbursed in just
15 months, between January 1988 and March 1989.
6.09        Expenditure on farm credit did not reach 55% of the sum initially
estimated. More than anything else, this attests to the cumbersome nature of
Agricultural Credit Bureau procedures, since demand for loans is invariably
very heavy during crop seasons in the North and Northeast.
6.10        Beginning on April 15, 1988, the donors started gradually taking
reimbursement for the deposits that had provided working capital. Since the
project had committed to some expenditures that were not eligible for
reimbursement from the donors (especially prior to FY87), this move caused
cash-flow difficulties in the stages. Payroll costs were met as best they
could be, but agricultural activities could not be carried on normally during
the last months of the implementation period.
VII.        ECONOMIC EVALUATION
7.01        Since it was not possible during the actual course of the project
to arrive at a precise assessment of the impact of all its components on



- 31 -
agricultural output and economic development in the region targeted, there is
also difficulty today in evaluating its overall effect, although this may
correctly be regarded as clearly falling short of initial expectations (see
Annex 8).
7.02        Projections of increased output from rainfed crops were notably
unrealistic, since the only increments in this output traceable to the project
came mainly from distribution of certain types of healthy seed (Jacmel haricot
beans, cassava, CMC 40, etc.), and they remain limited all the same. The
impact of the project on irrigated agriculture is much more significant, given
the very appreciable increases in market-garden produce and rice output at
St. Raphabl and Grison Garde. For lack of any regular follow-up data on the
fate of young plants distributed to farmers, it is difficult to say whether
tree-crop output (fruits, cocoa) is significantly higher than would have been
the case without the project.
7.03        Farm incomes, predicted to triple in the project area, failed to
do so. On a per-farm basis, incremental income is 562 less than the projected
figure. The gap is much greater in rainfed cropping areas (-91Z) than in
irrigated areas (-18Z).
7.04        The fact that the internal rate of return on the agricultural
component was not much above zero (0.65Z) demonstrates that, taken as a whole,
it was not cost-effective. Calculation of this figure was based on domestic
market prices for products not suitable for interuational trade (fresh
vegetables, cassava) and on border prices for all other products. Hired labor
was assumed to have an opportunity cost of nil, since the largely under-
employed rural labor force resorts to the labor market only after completing
necessary work in its own gardens. Skilled laborers and administrative
personnel were estimated at their market cost. Technical assistance financed
with grant funds was excluded. Only the direct effects of the project were
taken into account, all possible indirect or induced effects being excluded.
7.05        Calculated by the same method, internal rates of return for
irrigated areas are much higher: 22.5% at St. Raphael and 252 at Grison Garde
-- better than the opportunity cost of capital. Net discounted benefits
amount to US$1.98 million and US$0.42 million for St. Raphael and Grison Garde
respectively, using an interest rate of 10%, and to US$0.8 million and
US$0.2 million respectively, using an interest rate of 15%.
7.06        Since rural road construction costs were higher than projected and
traffic loads significantly lighter on some stretches, the internal rate of
return of the road component is likely to be lower than anticipated initially
(322).
7.07        The water supply component of the project was not subjected to
economic evaluation since it was regarded as a source of social benefits.
These are very obviously inferior to what was expected, however, since many of
the facilities created are now in poor condition for lack of maintenance and
spare parts.



- 32 -
VIII.       CONCLUSIONS
8.01        The Second Rural Development Project in the North has not had the
expected effects in the economic and social arenas. There are four main
reasons for this: a flawed initial assessment of the then prevailing
situation (particularly ae far as rainfed farming was concerned), the lack of
any master plan for development of the North and Northeast, abrupt changes in
project focus as a direct result of the political upheavals of the period, and
a style of project activities management that was much too bureaucratic in
nature.
8.02        RDN II has nevertheless created a number of valuable assets in the
form of rural roads and irrigation systems (intensive ricegrowing, market-
garden crops). It has also led to better knowledge of the specific realities
of the region and of its problems, besides resulting in the working up of new
methods of assistance for the rural world that involve a combination of
research, training and development.
8.03        It would be advisable to enhance the value of these assets still
further through a possible third project focused on intensive cropgrowing in
small irrigated areas and on a close linkage of research, training and
development measures in parts of the country where productivity gains can
reasonably be envisaged (government-owned land, certain hilly zones, etc.).
However, experience gained through RDN II demonstrates that it is absolutely
necessary to make the management of project activities more flexible by
drawing a very clear distinction between the responsibilities of the principal
(0DN) and those of its agents (government departments, local authorities,
private enterprises, NGOs, etc.), and by providing the latter with substantial
cash advances or working capital funds on condition that they undertake to
abide by very precise contractual conditions and specifications subject to
coordination, monitoring and evaluation by ODN itself.



HAITI
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH
(Credit 1410-HA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Related IDA Credits 1/
Year of                I
Projects               Purpose      Approval      status                                  Comments
First Rural Development          Rural          1977        Closed      The project faced implementation problems from the outset
Project in the North         Development                               and vas classified as a problem project nearly half of the
(Credit 675-,9A)                                                      implementation period.  The project encountered serious
problems of social, agricultural, and technical nature by the
weaknesses of the regional services. Agricultural targets
were not met, irrigation underwent substantial reformulation
during implementation, however, infrastructure components were
carricd out as targeted. ODN failed to provide an analysis
and a   management overviev of implementation and issues.
Excess tur.over of directors and technical staff.
Post-Hurricane Agricultural  Agriculture        1981        Closed      Project appraised under abbreviated procedures, experienced
Rehabilitation Project                                                 major delays during the various implementatiou stages.
(Credit 1106-ha)                                                      Limited capacity of the implementation agency DARNDR to absorb
financial assistance, but no reasonable alterLatives available
to the urgent need to rehabilitate agriculture in the eff4cted
areas.  The   operation was not succesful and confronted with
-Imitation of counterpart funds, serious institutional
constraints of DARNDR to manage the project, and BCA for
delivering and control credlt operations.
The project was simple and well defined in scope, however,
Pilot Forestry Project          Forestry        1982        Closed      expectations for the "Foret des Pins* management   plan were
(Credit 1257-9A)                                                      too optimistic due the population pressure on the land and the
difficulties in controlling illegal logging. The project
succeeded in setting-up a Forestry Bureau. The project has had
no inpact on the overall wood and forestry situation in Haiti,
since it vas basically a pilot operation. Has had a reasonable
impact on the development of human resources, has made limited
contribution to improve physical environment, erosion control,
and slowing down the destruction of the natural pine
forests. KARNDR's performance was not satisfactory due to its
weak managerial capacity, lack of timely counterpart funds,
and excessive turnover in management and staff.
11 Approved before the Second Rural Development Project.
nb
-'.4



- 34 -
Part III
Tablo 2
Page I of 3
HAITI
SECOND RUA.AL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH
(Credit 1410-HA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Prolect Timetable
Item                   Date                Date               Date
Planned             Revised            Actua&,
Identification FAO/CP                                                03/79
Identification FAO/CP                                                08/80
Preparation FAO/CP                                                   08/81
IDA Appraisal                                                        09/82
Credit Negotiations                                                  05/83
Board Approval 1'                                                 08/23/83
Credit Signature                                                  09/20/83
Credit Effective           01/19/84                               01/16/84
Credit Closing             06/30/88             06/30/89          12/31/89
Project Completion         12/31/88                               06/30/90
IFAD Appraisal                                                       09/82
Board Approval '                                                   04/22/83
Loan Signature                                                    09/09/83
Loan Effective                                                    01/06/84
Loan Closing               06/30/88             06/30/89          12/31/89
Project Completion         12/31/88                               06/30/90
Identification
-     financing of studies for project preparation;
-     slower project implementation of the first phase project that
prevented verification of some assumptions made in the first
phase;
-     availability of national quality staff;
I/The Executive Project Summary was issued on June 17, 1983.
2/ The Executive Project Summary was issued on March 23, 1983.



- 35 -
Part III
Table 2
Page 2 of 3
land tenure (lack of clear ownership titles and excessive
fragmentation of plots);
credit disbursements to farmers estimated to be slow and based on
their voluntary participation to group themselves in to SAC's
(Societe Agricole de Credit); and
marketing and price policies (the small producers count on local
traders, agents and exporters).
Preparation
-     weak performance of the first project prevents the financing of
the second phase;
-     limited availability of technical agricultural packages;
-     land tenure;
-     financing of project total costs;
-     project very sensitive to economic rentability;
-     extended sugarcane cultivation in the project area;
-     the project rural roads will be faced with construction problems
(technical studies not available);
-     irrigation water charges not yet envisaged; and
-     limited availability of agricultural credit to farmers.
ADpraisal
-     agricultural credit (BCA may not be expected to become financially
viable during project implementation);
-     retroactive financing (a number of small technical studies should
be completed before the start of the second project);
-     cost recovery in irrigation (it is unlikely that investment costs
can be fully recovered due to the conflicting water legislation
and the unwillingness of farmers to pay); and
-     lack of agricultural packages, agricultural actions would focus
only in seven zones, farms in the outside zones would be included
if they show adequate potential; and



- 36 -
Part III
Table 2
Page 3 of 3
institutional weaknesses and adequacy of ODN's staff and
accounting system.
Negotiations
counterpart funds for O&M of roads, and water supply and
irrigation systems; and
water charges in project irrigation systems (a provisional
irrigation water charge will be introduced until a new system is
in place).
Cost Effectiveness
-     transfer cf ODN's first project credit portfolio to BCA;
-     execution of working agreements between the agencies participating
in the project;
-     employment of a financial adviser for ODN; and
-     establishment of a Special Account.
Credit Closina
-     collection of maintenance costs in the St. Raphael irrigation
system has improved, but the overall percentage is still a mere
151;
-     some agricultural activities in the St. Raphael irrigation scheme
such as seed multiplication, fruittforestry trees propagation,
soil conservation, animal traction and apiculture have been
hindered by lack of resources and support of DARNDR and ODN
management;
only 401 of accepted subprojects to be financed with the Rural
Development Fund had been achieved, by deficiencies on execution
and investments and the lack of an adequate monitoring system;
project credit funds were used by farmers through BCA, but the
lack of control and low recovery from the farmers, resulted in the
loss of capital;
agricultural production in zones not assisted by foreign
specialists had not improved, because of the deficiency of
DARNDR's organization, low quality and experience of local
extensionists, and the limited comprehension of illiterate
farmers.



- 37 -
Part III
Table 3
HAITI
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH
(Credit 16410-RA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Credit and Loan Disbursements
.. . . .. . . ... I..... ...
(US$ million)
_____._  _____.__............. 0........................._.___.___.___................_. .............___._.   __............
Fiscal Year (FY) 1/
Items                  1984  1  1985       1986  1  1987  1  1988  1  1989   j  1990    Total
Appraisal Estiate               I         I
IDA                               0.7 j    2.3        4.6       5.0       6.5         0.0       0.0      19.1
IFAD                              0.6 |    1.0        1.1       1.1       1.2         0.0       0.0       5.0
Actual
IDA                               0.7       2.6       4.7       5.1       3.8         2.3       1.4      20.6
IPAD                              0.0       0.7       1.2       0.6       0.9         1.3       0.6       5.2
Actual as X of Appraisal
Estimate
IDA                               100       113       102       102        58                     -       108
i FAD                               0        67       109        50        75           _         _       104
Date of Final Diabursements  May 25, 1990
Cancelled at closing
IDA                          US$39,000
IFAD                         US$364,820
1/ Dank FY (July let to June 30)



- 38 -
Part III
Table 4.
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH
(Credit 1410-HA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A. Project Costs 11
@.._..._...........
(US $'000)
_._...._.____....................._ _ ...............__..._.,_,.....................___.._.._____..
Appraisal      Actual      Actual as I
Category                   Estimates  |      as        lof Appraisal
USS 2/   | 05/31/90  | Estimate.
1. Civil Works
(a) Part A, D and E                           7,526        10,683             142
(b) Part B, C and C                             161           233             145
2. Vehicles and Equipment
(a) Parts A, D and E                         1,803         1,488              83
(b) Part. B, C, G and I                        635           780             123
3. Consultant Services
(a) Parts A, D and E                         4,038         2,515              62
(b) Parts B.2, C and H                       2,637         2,331              88
(e) Part J (iii) and (iv)                      162         1,024             632
4. Local Salaries
Parts B, C, G, and H                         2,046         3,689             180
5. Adn4nistration and Vehicle Operation
(a) Parts A, E, and F                        1,145         3,305             289
(b) Parts B, C, G, and H                     2,482         2,923             118
6. Agricultural Credit
Part C                                         344           341              99
7. Maintenance of roads
Part D                                       1,580         1,723             109
8. Maintenance of Water Works
Part E.3                                      397           393              99
9. Rural Development Fund                        1,303         1,634             125
10. Project Preparation vorks                      302           299              99
11. Special Account                                497             _               0
12. Unallocated                                  2,093             .               0
Subtotal                                 29,151        33,361             114
1/ Exchange rate 1US$ a SCrds for local currency
2/ Exchange rate at the time of Appraissal I SDR n 1.0798 US$
Exchange rate at the time of IFAD Loan approval ISDR - 1.0753 USS



HAITI
SECOInD RURAL DYEIV.OIEUT PROJECT. IN S8Z WORT
(Credit 1410-H)
PROECT COnPLMC" REPRET
S. Project Fina0ct8a
Appraisal  Estimates                                                Actual                               tul  f
Category               Il    I 1J          RFA   | FAC         WV      Total     IDA       IFAD   RIVA   |              WV        Tota l     tffatl
6  P                                                                            narts      an  1f4i  1,?0    11,49  log  6699              14i812
2. Vehicles    and    Vehicle
,M rato         eF          '65      13i                             9       8651i      76    1,7884      214      230       53       2925           i8t]
lei ferrtiuT EVS   M  Crdi       1970       247                                      4        0        29___                                  319
3. Consultant Serviees
7.  :ritean  o rods           1,1991                                                                                   3 _     80,8  ,4         7   ,2     0
8.    ktn :c3   of Waten Wrk_05            _                          1921    43971    2126                                      81339
9.  Burl  eveopentFud      40        03             _58_ 1,206                              114 21                  _        _
1.PoetaPeprt    to Jok           30          _         _an_                      30        29          01 _               _         _       299             n
4. Localal aries
Parts  , c, C, and               756       753                   _      537    2,046       970       926         -              1,793     3,689           I8O
S. Administration and Vehicle
Opration
Z xsnr  te                                                                                                   14                 531 e:3 ortULa   prvl1Q-105   S
19  Er     G,              'MVad   "t  1,381                      496   1i:9i    21Ug    178Z            4d        230                              i!290,
6. Anricultural Credit         aL
art C97                                   24.7        ---                       344       102       239         -        -         -       341            99 
7. Maintenance of roads
Part 01,199                                 -         --               381    1,580    1,34.4         0         -         -      379      1,723           109
8. MaLnteu8r   ofWaer9ok
rart. r   fWtrWrs              205         -         --               192       397      212         0         -        -       181        339
9. Rural Development Fund            400       903         -                  -    1,303       1.40    1,194         -        -         -      1,634           125
10. Project Preparation works        302         -         ---                        302      299         0         -        -         -       299            9
11. Special Account 31               400        97         ---                       497         0         0         -        -         -         0
12. Unallocated 31                 1.620       1.73        --    2,093                           0         0         -        -         -         0
Subtotal                   i9,13-   5,000    2,238       1,20     1,600   29,151   20,612U   5,236-  3,099-   1,530    2,884-   33,361  1-----Z
1    csnie rate at the time oa   ariasallD      09   S
2ilxhsnl  raes tthe  imeOk IA  a oaaporoval zAua9c  YS.753 Y155
31 und Gerse udyt tuseedtan app ied to te a orresponding categories of expenditures.
l b 
o    -
0b



- 40 -
Table 5
Page 1 of 4
HAITI
SECOND DEVELOPNENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH
(Credit 1410-HA)
PROJECT COMPLETIO1I MEORT
A. Direct Benefits
A,oraisal
Comonents and Key Indicators             Eatimate          Actual Results
1. Irrigation Rehabilitation
(i)    St. Raphael (ha)                260              260
(i4)   Grison Garden (ha)              200          170-200 upgraded
(iii)  On-farm Development (ha)        920              920
2. Rural Roads
ci)    Construction and Rehab.(km)    116                117
(ii)   Maintenance (km)                200              200
3.  Water Suuulv
(i)   Village water supplies (No.)       21               28
(ii)  Shallow wells (No.)               195             200
4. Agriculture Develooment
(1)   Redeployment of Extension
staff to:
(a) 920 ha of developed
irrigated lands                               Done
(b)  8000 ha of rain-fed-land                   Incomplete
(il)  Soil conservation (ha)           300            Negligible
(iii) Research and Development
(a)  Testing various crop
varieties                                  Incomplete
(b)  Testing and applying
improved on-farm
irrigation practices                          Done
(iv)  Seed production                                 Negligible
5. Anricultural Credit
(i)  Volume (US$ 000)                   400               400
(ii)  Operations (No.)               1,700                472



- 41 -
Pat III
Table 5
Page 2 of 4
6. Institutional Development
(1)   Hiring long (324 m/m)
and short term (66 m/m)
consultants                                Achieved with some
exceptions but
effectiveness
hampered by
institutional
instability
(ii)  Design and implementation                       Done
of accounting systems
(iii) Trainingt
(a) preparation and implemen-
tation of a training plan              Delayed and not
followed-up
(b) Staff training formal and
in-service                             Partially achieved.
In-service hampered
by instability
(c) Overseas training                      Not Done
(d) Parmers training                       Done in the irriga-
tion perimeters.
(e) Development of a Monito-
ring and evaluation
system                                     Done
7.  Rural Develovment Fund                            Of about 150 sub-
projects, 40Z
estimated suc-
cessful
8.  PreDaration of follow-up Pro1ect                  Studies in progress
at closing time.



- 42 -
Part III
Table 5
Page 3 of 4
B.  Economic Impact
APRraisal
Estimate
1. Incremental Farm Income
(i)  Irrigated farming (Z of target)                   80
(ii) Rain-fed farm farming                         negligible
2. Economic Rate of Return (X)
1.  Entire Project                        23          Between 0 and 5.
2.  Agriculture Component                 20          Close to zero if
positive at all
3. Rural Roads Component                  31          Expected 10 to 15
provided main-
tenance sustained.
C. Policy Impact
1. Dialogue between borrower and
IDA on implementation of
positive lending rate                                Done
2. Desing and implementation
of a water charges system                           Incomplete
D. Studies
Studies                                             Status
Study on strengthening                (IDA
of the accounting capabilities        financed)        Completed
of the ODN
Study of irrigation water             (GTZ
charges for the project               financed)        Completed
area



- 43 -
Part III
Table 5
Page 4 of 4
Studies                                                  Statue
Feasibility of a dam for                 (cTZ
water storage                            financed)          Completed



- 44 -
RAITI                                                  Part III
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPHMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH                             T;bl; 6
(Credit 1410-HA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Status of Covenant:
COVENANT                   SUBJECT                      COMPLISACZ                    STATUS
4.02     The Borrower shall employ consultants   By January           Although consultants were
whose qualifications, experience and    1984 and the         paowLded by the Freach (FAC)
te=3  and conditions of employment         following         and the ConG n  (CTZ) Tecbnioal
shall be satisfactory to the              years.            Assistance grants, the consultant
Association,                                                 for the road component was not
hired.
4.06 (b)   The Borrower shall review the              Every year        Credit operations of WCA were
adequacy of interest rates referred                          limited in the project areas
in Schedule 4, paragraph C.1 of the                          and interest rates were not
Credit Agreemnt.                                            modlfied.
4.06 (c)   The Borrower shall review yearly the    Starting             SCA audit reports were provided
performance of BCA with the               December 31,       to the Association until FY86.
Association*                               1984.             For non compliance with the
presentation of the Audlt
Report, the Association
suspended dlsbursements to BC&
in May 1987.
4.08     The Borrower shall furnish to the          As soon as        ODN decided not to train abroad
Association for its approval, the          available.        any candidate because of the
train4ng programs and candidates                             excessive turnover of staff
proposed for training abroad.                                experienced in thu previoue
project.
4.10     The Borrower shall exchange views          By May 1984       Although the Borrower complied
with the Association in May of each        and every year   with the provision of
year, starting May 1984 on the            thereafter.       counterpart fund., in some
proposed budget allocations for the                          years tuads were not
project and prior to September of                            suffLel ntly and timely
each year on the adequacy thereof.                          provided.
3.01     The Borrower shall cause ODB to have    Every YarT,          Audlt reports were delivered to
its accounta and flnanclal statements   but not later    the Association with delays of
for each fiscal year audited ia           than four         one to four months.   Auditor's
accordance with appropriate auditiag    months after        reports bad always Indicated
principles conclstently applied, by       the end of        deficienciee in handling
lndependent auditors acceptable to         eeah fiscal      project Lnventories.
tbh  Association.                         year.
3.05 (a)   The Borrower shall start the               Not later than   ODN started collecting water
collection of reasonable water            January 1,        charges only in February 1983.
charges from the users of the              1984.
Irrigation systetm of the project.
3.05 (b)   The Borrower shall prepare and             Not later than   ODN finished and sent to the
furish to the Association, for            December 31,      Association the study on water
acents, a study of on adequate             1984.            charges only on Aprll 19, 1986.
system of lrrigation charges for the
project area.
5.05 (c)   The Borrower based on the                  not later than   Because of the political unrest
recoreondations of the study referred   Deeamber 31,         la i aiti and the *ezeesive
La paragraph (b) of this Section,          1985.            turnover of Government
put into effect a system of water                           Lminsters and OD's management,
charges la the project area.                                recommended .aater charges were
not implemented after 1986.
5.06     The Borrower shall establish and           Not later than   Complied in February 1986.
maintain a mechanls  for the 01K of       June 30, 1985.   However, after 1987 OlE was not
the irrigation systems tn the project                       continuously made due to the
area.                                                       country's politlcal unrest.



- 45 -
"Ain                                        part III
SECOND RuRAL DVLOoMT    JECT SN TU  IOlTl                      Table i
(Credit 1410-HA)
PROJECT CO"PLETSON ''nS
USE Of SANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs
.._..._......
(staf tweeks)
FT               Preparation  Appraisal   Negotiations  Superviston            Other         Total
i.. .... 0 _e ........   ------,-0........ ..  .. ,................................... ..,:I......... -- -------  ----------  --------------. -------  --. .........
1978                      5.1                                                                     5.1
1979                     81.1                                                        0.1         81.2
1980                     14.5                                                                    14.5
191                     28.9                                                                    28.9
1982                     32.8                                                        0.1         32.9
1983                     14.5          40.2           3.3                            9.1         67.1
1984                                                  1.7             12.7           2.8         17.2
1985                                                                  13.7           0.8         14.5
1986                                                                  12.8                       12.8
1987                                                                  20.*4                      20.4
1988                                                                  14.8                       14.8
1989                                                                  11.4                       11.4
1990                                                                   4.4           4.1          8.5
1991
Total        176.9          40.2            5.0            90.2           17.0       329.3
B. Bank missions
.......... .......______........ ................... ............ .............................. .............. ........._.__
Stage of Projcct           Monethi   Number of        Daye in    Specializatton  Perfoiag   Type of
Cycl                 Year         Pereone        Fild       Repreesnted 1/   Rating        Problems 3/
Status 21I
... .... ____............. ..............................__._.._............  ...........  _.._....
Through Appraisal
_._....._______..
Identification FAD/CP             Ili8           6             21      a*2b.d,2h,ioj
Identification FAO/CP            3/79            6             27       a,b,c,d,j,k
Preparstion FAO/CP                5/81           5             21       a.b,d,c,j
Appratsal Through Board
Presentation
__ ........__.....
Apprisal Bank                     9/82                         30       a*b,c,e,f,g
Supervision
Supervision 1                     1/84           2             16            cod              1
Supervision 2                    5/84            1              3              d              I             U
Suprvisino  3                     7/84           2             10            c,d              I             U
Supervisiou 4                     10/84          1              5              d              1             M
Supervision 5                     2/85           2             12            cod              1            Not
supervlsion 6                     11/85          2             10            c,d              2            M I
Supervision 7                     5/86           2             11            c,d              3           u.F.l
Supervision 6                     10186          1             11              d              4          * U.ItP
Supervision 9                     4/87           2              7            c.d              3          F,H,1,P
Supervision 10                    9/87           2             11            c,d              3           t,I,7
Supervison 11                     3/88           2             10            c,d              2           i.1.)
Supervision 12                    9/88           1             11            c,d              2           ?,M,I
Supervisom 13                     3/89           1              8              t                          I..M,
..... ........ _._.....____............ .w_@69. ................................ _.. _____....................___......._.________.
1/ a    mission leadr; b * economist or agricultural economist
c - civil oginteer or hydraulic engineer; d a agriculturalistl
a*  finanial anlyst; f u road consultant  g  mission assistant
h   f forestert I a forest consultant; j   s soil conservation
k    nuctitto  specialst
2/ 1 * problms free; 2 - moderate problemst 3 a serious problms.
3/ P * Political; I * Financial; M * Managemen, I * Institutional



AN.-Ak\ I98, 
HI A   I T  I
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTH
0
ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.
/l 'l                                                                           '
/ ~       '                    %                             ,jCod /
;.f~~                  ~     ~~    I                                f           -                           m~.- 
::,,-             --    '-rar/                                                                   ~'~ 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                  .        / (   j  -  ...s.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ''                               . ' ! /  /          ! -
h                       \      |   >     - /                                              -      .
/a                                                                    --i. -.
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ kee  Y  .;' e,  .......  ' .....R r...l
K~ ~~ 71                      '"  "A                            ,A.Wva .-rr'



