Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                           -L.OOP 
Report No. P-3519-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF
SDR 17.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 17, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Gourde (G)
G 1.00 = US$0.20
G 5.00 = US$1.00
G 1 million = US$200,000
The Gourde has been tied to the US Dollar at the ratio of
five Gourdes to one Dollar since 1919.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                      British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                   =  3.281 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)            =  35.32 cubic feet (ft3)
264.2 gallons (gal)
6.290 barrels (bbl)
1 kg                          =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t; metric; 1,000 kg)  =  1.100 short tons (sh. ton)
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - Septembet 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCA     -  Agricultural Credit Bureau
CIDA    -  Canadian International Development Agency
DARNDR   - Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and
Rural Development
EDH     -  Electricite d'Haiti
FAC     -  French Assistance and Cooperation Fund
FAO/CP  -  Food and Agricultural Organisation of the United
Nations/Cooperative Program
GOH     -  Government of Haiti
GTZ     -  German Official Technical Assistance Organization
IDB     -  Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD    -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF     -  International Monetary Fund
KfW     -  German Reconstruction Loan Corporation
ODN     -  Organization for the Development of the North
RDF     -  Rural Development Fund
SAC     - Agricultural Credit Association
SNEP    -  National Water Supply Company
UNCDF   -  United Nations Capital Development Fund
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Haiti
Amount:              SDR 17.7 million (US$19.1 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:         The project would focus on the improvement of crop
production by small farmers in Haiti's Northern region
and support the following activities for this purpose:
(i) Rehabilitation of two irrigation systems
(460 ha in total), improved maintenance and related
on-farm development (920 ha); (ii) Agricultural
development including the strengthening of the regional
extension service, diversification of agricultural
research and expansion of seed production; (iii)
Provision of credit (short and medium-term) for small
farmers; (iv) Rehabilitation and construction of 116 km
of rural roads and strengthening of road maintenance
for another 200 km of existing roads; (v) Construction
of 21 community water supply systems and 100 wells,
rehabilitation of 95 existing wells, and strengthening
of rural water supply maintenance; (vi) Institutional
development of the Organization for the Development of
the North (ODN) including technical assistance, studies
and training, and (vii) the establishment of a facility
(Rural Development Fund) to support local community
development activities. Substantial contributions to
project costs are expected from the International Fund
for Agricultural Development, the Federal Republic of
Germany and France.
Benefits:            Almost all of the project area's population of 775,000
would benefit from the project, though in varying
degrees. The agricultural development component would
directly involve 6,250 farm families and result in
substantial incremental production of foodcrops. The
roads and water supply improvements would affect
135,000 and 128,000 rural dwellers, respectively.
Important benefits would also accrue from the improve-
ment of the employment and health situation in the
project area.
Risks:               Experience with on-farm development and rational water
management is limited, and the introduction of new crop
varieties and technologies may occasionally face
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
problems of adoption. Components focusing on rainfed
agriculture may be affected by the erratic rainfall
pattern in the project area. However, these risks are
considered manageable. ODN, which has gained valuable
experience under the first IDA project and improved its
ability to deal with project implementation problems,
and frequent IDA supervision missions would monitor
project implementation carefully in order to initiate
corrective measures as soon as delays or other critical
problems should arise.
Estimated Costs: a/                               -----       US$'000----------
Local     Foreign        Total
Irrigation
St. Raphael System                900       1,370        2,270
Grison Garde System                510         190          700
Subtotal                     1,410       1,560        2,970
Agricultural Development
Extension                          695         800        1,495
Research and Development          820       1,890        2,710
Seed Production                   480         240           720
Subtotal                    1,995       2,930        4,925
Agricultural Credit                  290         350          640
Rural Roads                        2,865       2,055        4,920
Water Supply                       1,710       2,375        4,085
Institutional Development
Project Coordination            1,135       1,305        2,440
Training                          250         475           725
Monitoring and Evaluation          120         480          600
Preparatory Studies                300          -           300
Subtotal                    1,805       2,260        4,065
Rural Development Fund             1,050         450        1,500
Base costs                       11,125      11,980       23,105
Physical contingencies               880         755        1,635
Price contingencies               2,495        1,920        4,415
TOTAL PROJECT COST               14,500      14,655       29,155
a/   Cost estimates exclude taxes and duties, from which this project is
exempt.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                               ------------US' 000 -----------
Local    Foreign         Total
IDA                        10,010       9,105        19,115
IFAD                        2,875       2,125         5,000
Germany, F.R. of                -       2,240         2,240
France                         15       1,185         1,200
Government                  1,600           -         1,600
14,500      14,655       29,155
Estimated
Disbursements:                            -------------US$' Million---------
IDA FY                1984    1985   1986    1987   1988
Amount                  0.7     2.3    4.6       5.0    6.5
Cumulative              0.7     3.0    7.6    12.6   19.1
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4369b-HA, dated June 16, 1983.
Rate of Return:   23 percent for components, excluding rural water supply,
which account for 82 percent of total costs.
Maps:              IBRD No. 16788 attached.



I                                                                                                                                                                          A 



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR A SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
development credit of SDR 17.7 million (US$19.1 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to the Republic of Haiti, to help finance a Second
Rural Development Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Haiti, distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 25, 1982, was Report No. 3931-HA entitled "Economic
Memorandum on Haiti". Its main findings, updated and complemented with
findings of recent missions to Haiti, are summarized below. Relevant
social and economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti's GNP per capita stood at US$270 in 1981, the lowest level
in the Western Hemisphere. Its dire poverty is reflected in 1977 data
showing that almost 75 percent of the population lived under conditions of
absolute poverty; the rate of infant mortality was about 115 per thousand
live births; average life expectancy was 53 years; there were low nutrition
and sanitation standards (malnutrition and gastro-enteric diseases account
for over half the deaths in the country) and the adult illiteracy rate was
almost 80 percent. Extreme rural poverty, high pressure on agricultural
land (400 inhabitants per sq km) and the lack of development of other
sectors resulted, in recent years, in an acceleration of migration within
and out of the country.
4.        High mortality and migration have so far slowed population growth
(1.7 percent per annum during the 1975-80 period), but the natural desire
on the part of the Government is to improve health conditions. Thus,
health improvements and growing difficulties imposed on emigration to
neighboring countries will aggravate the already unfavorable relation of
resources to population. Efforts are currently under way to promote modern
methods of contraception through community organizations and other groups
in collaboration with various national and external public and private
agencies.
5.        Haiti's GDP expanded at an average annual rate of 4.4 percent or
2.7 percent per capita during the 1970-80 period. The pattern of growth,
however, was subject to cyclical fluctuations, influenced by the
performance and weight of agriculture, which is subject to the vagaries of
weather and external markets. Manufacturing and construction have shown a
more even performance.
1/   Reprinted substantially from PR No. 3395-HA of March 3, 1983 for an
Urban Development Project.



-2-
6.        Between 1970 and 1980, agriculture provided employment for about
65 percent of the labor force, contributed on average 35 percent to GDP,
and grew at an average annual rate of 1.7 percent. The sector--which pro-
vides most of Haiti's exports--is characterized by extremely low product-
ivity. Furthermore, the rapid disappearance of Haiti's forests and the
resulting soil erosion are reducing the availability of wood, the country's
prime source of energy, and leading to a shrinkage of productive land. In
an effort to halt these trends, the Government has recently initiated
erosion control and forestry programs. It also has initiated programs to
introduce improved grain varieties, rehabilitate coffee plantations,
restore the major irrigated systems and develop agro-industries.
7.        Since 1970, manufacturing industries, construction and public
utilities have emerged as the most consistently dynamic activities with
average annual growth rates of 7 percent, 14 percent and 9 percent respec-
tively. The manufacturing sector owes much of its expansionary drive to
the export processing industries--which have a potential for further
development-- and to a rapid increase in output of construction materials.
Growth of locally manufactured products, other than construction materials,
for the domestic market was necessarily limited by the thinness of this
market. Construction, on the other hand, was fueled by public investment
in infrastructure.
8.         While gross investment represented only 11 percent of GDP in
1982, its share had steadily risen from 10 percent in 1970 to 13 percent in
1981. This progress was entirely attributable to the public sector, whose
share of total investment has increased from one-fifth in 1970 to over 50
percent in 1981, as a result of an average expansion rate of 10 percent per
year in real terms. The Government's investment strategy, as stated in its
two Five-Year Development Plans (1972-76 and 1977-81), was geared to the
decentralization of economic activity in favor of rural areas and provin-
cial towns.
9.       The mobilization of domestic resources for investment is hampered
by a low average income level and institutional weaknesses in the capital
market and in public finance. During the 1980-82 period, gross domestic
savings amounted to only 1.6 percent of GNP. Foreign assistance, there-
fore, plays a major role in supplementing domestic savings; some two-thirds
of public investment is financed by foreign aid.
10.       As regards public sector savings, the Government of Haiti has
undertaken during the period 1979-81 a major reorganization of fiscal
management. All tax revenues have been integrated into the Government
budget; the Treasury now handles all Central Government expenditures; tax
collection is being consolidated and parafiscal functions have been removed
from the Regie du Tabac (State Trading Monopoly); sound accounting proce-
dures are being established; customs duties have been consolidated and
rates on luxury goods have been raised; new taxes have been imposed and the
income tax law was amended to improve equity and elasticity of income taxa-
tion. While there were significant gains towards achieving the goals of
the fiscal reform, large extra-budgetary expenditure authorizations in 1980
and 1981 raised the public sector deficit from 7.9 percent of GDP in 1979



- 3 -
to around 11.3 percent in 1981 and increasing recourse was made to central
bank financing. The public sector deficit was reduced to about 9.5 percent
of GDP in 1982.
11.       Haiti could not escape the negative effects of world recession.
In addition, the 1981 coffee crop was particularly poor. This, coupled
with a drop in its world price and a decline in bauxite export revenues,
resulted in an overall decline of Haiti's merchandise exports of 28 percent
as compared with the level achieved in 1980. These low export revenues and
the demand pressures generated by the domestic financing of the fiscal
deficit generated a foreign exchange crisis.  Furthermore, Haiti's drawing
rights under an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) established with the Inter-
national Monetary Fund (IMF) for the period 1979-81, were interrupted as
ceilings on net domestic bank credit to the public sector and on net
domestic assets of the monetary authorities were exceeded. As recession
continued during 1982, export revenues did not improve despite record
bauxite exports and some increase in assembly industry sales in the US
market.
12.       Economic activity would have declined again during 1982, were it
not for agriculture, where a relatively good crop allowed overall GDP to be
level with the one of 1981. The assembly industry, the most dynamic sector
in the recent past, showed some growth again during 1982 in spite of the
world recession. Stringent monetary and fiscal policies restrained both
public and private expenditures. The foreign exchange constraint led to an
accumulation of commercial arrears of US$20 million, and official foreign
reserves dropped. As the foreign exchange situation became critical, the
Haitian Authorities signed a Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF for the
period June 1982 to September 1983. Under the conditions of this Arrange-
ment, public expenditures and the arrears in the payment for vital imports
are being reduced and a new general sales tax was approved. Also, measures
are being taken to improve tax collection and an in-depth audit of the
Central Bank is presently under way. Up to the date of the present report,
the conditions of the Arrangement had been fully met.
13.       The continuing high proportion of grants and concessionary loans
extended to Haiti has helped the country maintain its debt-service ratio at
an estimated 7.5 percent for 1982. The rising level of private foreign
investment and of supplier's credits, however, will bring with it larger
factor payments in the form of dividend repatriation and interest payments.
14.       The ability of Haiti to maintain an acceptable growth rate in the
future will depend on successful efforts to improve substantially the
productivity of the agricultural sector and to continue diversifying the
economic structure, especially into export-oriented industry. Because of
the limited capacity to generate adequate levels of savings, Haiti will
have to continue relying heavily on foreign savings to finance a high
proportion of the costs of carefully selected development and institution
building projects. Moreover, such external assistance should continue
being extended on very concessionary terms in view of Haiti's low income
level, modest prospects for overall export growth and increasing dependence
on imported energy. But the terms, size and timing of the external
assistance will depend very much on Haiti's own efforts in exercising



-4-
fiscal and monetary prudence, in mobilizing domestic resources and putting
them to good use.
15.       The Association and the IMF are closely involved in Haiti's
effort to improve fiscal performance and economic management in general.
The Association, at the request of the Haitian Authorities, established a
subgroup within the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Develop-
ment. IDA is also extending assistance to the authorities in the prepara-
tion of longer term plans to mobilize the country's scarce resources for
economic development, including the priorities of public investments,
identification of bottlenecks in project execution and, more generally,
institution building efforts.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI 2J
16.       The Bank Group began its operations in Haiti with a loan for a
highway project in 1956. Since then, IDA has extended 18 credits and IFC
has made one investment (US$1.5 million) for an integrated poultry
project. As of March 31, 1983, the total of credits outstanding was
US$205.2 million, of which US$93.3 million were undisbursed. Annex II
includes a summary statement of Bank Group operations and IFC investments
in Haiti and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Bank Group loans
and credits have financed six transport projects mainly serving the
Northern region; three power projects helping to increase the country's
electricity generation and distribution capacity; three education projects
emphasizing primary school construction and qualitative improvements at the
primary level; one water supply project for provincial towns; one rural
development project in the Northern region; one agricultural rehabilitation
project designed to help compensate damages caused by a severe hurricane;
one port development project improving international port facilities of
Port-au-Prince and small coastal port installations all around the country;
one industrial credit facility; one pilot forestry project; and an urban
development project, including sites and services schemes in three cities
and the upgrading of the Port-au-Prince central market.
17.       Overall, project implementation and disbursement performance are
satisfactory. However, on several occasions, lack of counterpart funds has
delayed disbursements. The establishment of working funds in recent pro-
jects has brought improvement in this respect. Nevertheless, the Associa-
tion is carefully monitoring the capacity of absorption of the country for
externally assisted development investments. The Government of Haiti (GOH)
has requested the major external aid agencies to finance temporarily a
larger share of local costs of projects. In case the major agencies should
agree to the Haitian request, a larger number of high priority projects
could be continued without delays or reductions, or started as planned, and
the country would still be able to satisfy the conditions of the fiscal
stabilization program agreed with the International Monetary Fund in order
to help overcome the present economic difficulties.
2/   Reprinted substantially from PR No. P3395-HA of March 3, 1983 for an
Urban Development Project in Haiti.



- 5 -
18.       Many public and private aid agencies are active in Haiti.  Among
the most important are the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) and the assistance agencies of the
Federal Republic of Germany and France.
19.       IDB retains a diverse program in Haiti both regionally and
sectorally. In addition to transportation, agriculture and energy,
projects in health, education, industry, urban improvement, water supply
and port improvement are now being implemented or planned. The USAID
program is largely implemented in collaboration with private volunteer
groups and is concentrating on agricultural production, improving rural
infrastructure, conservation and restoration of natural resources, health
care and the strengthening of public and private development institutions.
The sale of foodstuffs to the GOH, supported with long term, low interest
credits, is also important. CIDA had been supporting a rural development
project in the Southern Peninsula and is now undertaking a review of its
country lending strategy. CIDA is participating in the second IDA power
project and remains committed to supporting the institutional development
of public and private organizations within Haiti. This objective is
reflected in training and technical assistance projects now underway with
the Ministries of Education and Agriculture and the National Institute of
Administration.
20.       The Federal Republic of Germany is providing technical and finan-
cial assistance for urban development in Port-au-Prince, for a rural devel-
opment project in the Gonaives Plain and for power sector development all
over the country. Together with France, Germany has been providing sub-
stantial technical assistance for the First IDA Rural Development Project
in the Northern region. Likewise, the co-financing of water supply and of
the IDA port development projects is included in the German program.
France has financed road construction and currently sponsors two integrated
rural development projects, educational planning and research, a multitude
of training programs and a maritime lighting project. Also France is
financing components of the Third IDA Power Project and may become engaged
in forestry development and further power projects.
IDA Strategy
21.      Originally, Bank Group lending to Haiti was heavily supporting
infrastructure improvement (power, transport) but as Government priorities
changed, social sector investments (education, urban development), rural
development and reforestation gained in importance. The present lending
program reflects the priorities of the national development plans and
attempts to establish a balance between the continued need for
infrastructure investments benefitting export-oriented industries and the
equally necessary enhancement of the quality of rural living and immediate
increase in agricultural productivity. As in the past, IDA projects will
include substantial institution-building components and have regard to the
current and future programs of other bilateral and multilateral assistance
agencies. Co-financing of IDA projects by these agencies is very active
and appears to keep a good potential for the future.



-6-
22.      Under the current IDA program, the ongoing Pilot Forestry Project
provides for the preparation of a second large-scale erosion
control/reforestation project which will reduce the loss of valuable top
soil and improve the supply situation for firewood. In the context of the
power expansion program supported by the major assistance agencies, Haiti
has requestee IDA to support an increase of the thermal generation capacity
of the Carrefour power plant, and in 1985, the Guayamouc hydroelectric
scheme which would at the same time substantially reduce siltation in the
Peligre reservoir, the country's largest existing hydropower scheme. High
priority investments needed in the water supply sector have recently been
brought to the attention of IDA by Government, and in the education sector,
primary and vocational education would require further IDA involvement.
Sector reviews are being undertaken or will start soon in agriculture,
industry, education and population, and are expected to lead to the
identification of projects in these fields.
23.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and
outstanding came to 23.8 percent as of October 1, 1982. The Bank Group's
share of external public debt service was about 3.7 percent and will
decrease during the coming years.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
24.       Haiti lies in the tropical zone.  The country occupies the
western third of the island of Hispanola, with an area of 27,750 Km2 and a
long and rugged shore line of 1,530 km. The interior of the country is
mountainous with 40 percent of the land above 500 m and 63 percent lying on
slopes of 20 percent or steeper. Depending on available sources, estimates
of cultivated areas range from 700,000 to 1,400,000 ha. These are limited
land resources in relation to a population of over 5 million (1981), giving
an average density of 185 persons per km2, or 400 persons per km2 of arable
land. While less than one-fifth of the land is classified as best suited
for field crops, the acreage actually cropped covers over one-third of the
land, reflecting the high-degree of over-utilization. Rainfall varies
widely, from over 3,000 mm on slopes exposed to the trade winds to less
than 600 mm in marginal areas, especially the drought-prone Northwest
peninsula. The southern part of the country is subject to frequent
hurricanes.
The Rural Sector
25.       Agriculture plays a major role in Haiti's economy.  Over the past
years, it provided 65 percent of employment, accounted for about 35 percent
of GDP and over 50 percent of merchandise exports. Cash crops (coffee,
sugar cane, cocoa, sisal, cotton) account for 34 percent of total value of
agricultural commodities; food crops (rice, corn, plantain, beans, millet,
sweet potatoes) for 56 percent and livestock production for some 10
percent. Most farmers keep a few heads of livestock. Pigs are most
important as a source of animal protein and as a vehicle of savings;



- 7 -
followed by beef cattle. African swine fever has recently dramatically
reduced the pig population; restocking is being planned with external
assistance (IDB, USAID). Agricultural sector growth is uneven due to
periodic fluctuations in coffee production and frequent droughts and
hurricanes; since 1980, agricultural growth has been stagnant. Haiti needs
substantial imports of basic foodstuffs such as maize, beans, wheat and
rice. Imports of wheat (20 percent of overall cereal consumption) are
growing at 15 percent annually as a result of changes in consumption habits
in expanding urban areas, rapid population growth, and fluctuation in the
supply of local staple foods.
26.       Over two-thirds of the rural population is estimated to earn
annual per capita incomes of US$100 or less (1981), about one-third of the
country's average.  Heavy demographic pressure on arable land,excessive
tree cutting for firewood, overcultivation and lack of soil conservation
have resulted in deforestation and serious land erosion (irreversible in
some areas). However, land distribution in Haiti is not overly
unbalanced. A high proportion of farmers own their land, although titles
are often disputed because of complex family ownership and laws
regulating entitlements to the inheritance. In one region (Artibonite), a
eadastral survey is underway and the Government intends to expand this
effort, which will require many years for full implementation, to the rest
of the country. About 46 percent of the farms have less than 2 ha of land;
73 percent less than 4 ha and only about 8 percent are larger than 10 ha.
Larger holdings occupy the most productive flatlands primarily devoted to
the cultivation of sugar cane. Smaller holdings are normally fragmented
with an average of three parcels per farm. Wage labor in agriculture is
common in some parts of Haiti and many small landowners/farmers try to
improve their cash income with earnings from other activities.
Agricultural Constraints
27.       The most important constraint is the low level of production
technology, which translates directly into low yields of the main crops.
It imparts to Haitian agriculture one of its main and most paradoxical
characteristics: the under-utilization of the productive lowlands and the
overutilization of the marginal uplands with resulting erosion. The five
major areas of technical problems are: (a) use of low yielding varieties;
(b) poor crop management; (c) inadequate use of water resources; (d) insuf-
ficient soil and water conservation; and (e) endemic pest problems. How-
ever, with external assistance, progress has been made over the last 20
years with the introduction of improved varieties of sugar cane, cotton,
rice and corn.
28.       Weed control generally is insufficient, and use of purchased
inputs (fertilizers, pesticides) is limited (most often justifiably, since
local varieties would not give an economic response). Coffee and sugar
cane growing are little more than picking or cutting exercises, with little
or no management. Land preparation by hand is relatively poor in quality.



-8-
29.       Some 226,000 ha  of soils would be suitable for irrigation if
sufficient water were available; 66,000 ha are under some form of
irrigation and another 11,000 ha could be irrigated without major
additional investment. However, only a few thousand hectares benefit at
present from full water control. The irrigation infrastructure is old and
has been damaged by seasonal floods and is not well maintained. Water
intakes and canals have silted up as a result of erosion. Drainage is poor
as well, and lack of land levelling, the presence of scattered trees in the
fields, and inadequate organization of water distribution limit the
efficiency of irrigation.
30.        Soil erosion affects most areas of Haiti; it results from heavy
population pressure on land and forests, scarcity of flat or moderately
sloping land, and over-utilization of soils, especially in the productive
valleys and plains. According to FAO estimates, the country loses some 15
million cubic meters of soil yearly, corresponding to 6,000 ha of land.
Though most of the eroded land is still usable, especially for tree
planting, productivity is declining. Other erosion effects are: (a) poor
retention of water because of excessive runoff and higher fluctuations of
the underground water supply, causing shortages of irrigation water in dry
areas; (b) disruption of irrigated agriculture; and (c) rapid siltation of
the Peligre reservoir, the country's major hydroelectric scheme.
Institutional Constraints
31.       The general weakness of agricultural support services has been a
major constraint to improving agricultural performance. The most important
support elements are the various services of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development (DARNDR) whose efficiency, however,
is hampered by insufficient funding and staffing. Its present, though
increasing, share in budgetary allocations still compares unfavorably with
the sector's important contribution to the national economy. The field
structure of DARNDR is weak. Only 5 percent of its operational budget is
reserved for field expenses and of 400 technicians in DARNDR's services,
only about 200 are assigned to the districts. Duplication of effort, poor
coordination and lack of effective programs aggravate the situation.
Likewise, the activities of the various technical assistance and voluntary
agencies are not always coordinated, which often results in poor
utilization of resources and programs. The recently enacted Law of
Decentralization (August 1982) is opening ways and is providing means for
shifting important development functions to the regions.
32.       Another important aspect of the institutional framework relates
to the lack of an effective community structure. The Haitian farmer is
strongly individualistic, with no active cooperative tradition. Different
informal organizations, however, exist among rural neighbours and might be
developed to become instruments of rural change. A number of agricultural
credit associations and community action groups have been created to secure
credit and ensure collective guarantees and community improvement (road
repair, maintenance of irrigation works, school building and maintenance)
through self-help.



- 9 -
Agricultural and Rural Development Policies
33.       The strategy proposed in Haiti's five-year plan (1982-86) calls
for increasing food and export crop production, improving of infrastructure
and agricultural support services, more investment in irrigated
agriculture, stronger reliance on and promotion of farmer's associations,
and, generally, the preservation of natural resources. During the plan
period, annual increases of 2 to 6.8 percent in food crop production and
overall increase of up to 60 percent for industrial and export crops are
envisaged. To reach these objectives, the Government intends to allocate
US$250 million equivalent - mostly concessional funds expected from the
main external donor agencies - to programs for (a) food production; (b)
animal production; (c) conservation and management of land resources
(including erosion control and reforestation); (d) agricultural research;
(e) organization and promotion of rural life; (f) integrated regional
development, and (g) institutional strengthening. While the objectives of
the plan are considered to represent the highest investment priorities, its
size may be too ambitious in relation to the volume of external resources
that in effect will be forthcoming and Haitian institutional constraints
(paras. 31 and 32 above).
34.       In implementing its agricultural and rural development
programs,Haiti is receiving and will continue to receive in the future,
substantial external support. The present bilateral and multilateral aid
program is very diversified and more than 50 percent of the funds received
for agriculture are allocated to integrated rural development. The
programs, spread over several regions of the country, try to stimulate an
improvement of economic and social conditions in rural areas by
simultaneous actions in several sectors (education, health, water supply,
transport, housing). Other externally supported programs range from
irrigation, coffee improvement, rice development, forestry and soil erosion
to agricultural credit and research.
The Project Area
Location and Physical Characteristics
35.       The project area encompasses the northern plain of Haiti, the
northern mountain range and a small section of the central plateau. It
borders the Atlantic Ocean in the north, and the Dominican Republic in the
east covering about 4,200 km2. In administrative terms, it includes the
northern and northeastern districts. The area's population (1981) is about
775,000, giving a density of about 185 per km2. Eighty five percent of the
population are rural dwellers; the rest live in urban clusters; Cap Haitien
with 65,000 inhabitants being the largest.
36.       The area includes five main watersheds draining into the
Atlantic. Average rainfall varies widely, from 800 mm in the northeast
(St. Raphael, Central Plateau) to over 2,000 mm in the highlands. In the
plain, it generally increases from east (1,000 to 1,200 mm) to west (1,900
mm). Main rainy periods are September to January and March to June, but
seasons are not very stable and precipitation fluctuates widely. About 40
percent of soils in the project area are suitable for agriculture (classes



- 10 -
I to IV of the land capability classification of the US Soil Conservation
Service). Some parts are subject to flooding and erosion has increased
over past years, especially of soils in limestone areas.
Land Use and Farming Systems
37.       Although there are no detailed statistics available, it is
estimated that out of a total of about 186,000 ha of regularly cultivated
land in the project area, 11,000 ha are used for sugar cane (major cash
crop), 64,000 ha for food crops (rice, sorghum, beans, cassava) and about
20,000 ha for plantains, fruit trees, coffee, vegetables, tobacco and
cocoa. Some 70,000 ha are used for mixed cropping on small plots, and some
10 percent of the land is in fallow or not cultivated for a number of
reasons (floods, droughts, absentee ownership). Livestock production is of
secondary importance (10-20 percent of farm income). Mixed cropping is the
usual practice, except for rice, part of sugar cane, and irrigated
vegetables.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
38.       There are about 100,000 rural families in the project area with
total annual per capita farm incomes (1982) of about US$90 equivalent. The
majority of farms are small (1.25 ha in the plain; 0.5 ha on the hillsides)
and fragmented. In the plains, land tenure is different: 25 percent of
farms around St. Raphael are larger than 13 ha, and in the plain near Cap
Haitien, one-third of the good land is occupied by farms larger than 25
ha. Typically, the farm owner, often assisted by other members of the
family, raises a wide variety of crops and holds one animal (usually a
pig). Some 20 percent of the land is cultivated by tenants and
sharecroppers.
Infrastructure
39.       A main asphalted road connects the Northern region and the
project area with the capital and the Central region of the country. The
rural road system has been partly improved by the First IDA Rural Develop-
ment Project but two-thirds of the roads in the western and eastern
sections are in need of rehabilitation and better maintenance. Water
supply, i.e., access to safe water is an important constraint although, in
selected areas, the first IDA project has successfully changed the situa-
tion. There are 16 public health centers and 29 dispensaries unevenly
scattered over the project area and there is a hospital in Cap Haitien.
The provision of basic education reaches the national average. Many
external non-governmental organizations are supporting the expansion and
operation of health and educational facilities.
Previous IDA Involvement in Agricultural and Rural Development in Haiti
40.       IDA has been supporting three operations in agriculture/rural
development in Haiti. In 1976, the First Rural Development Project
(US$10.0 million) was approved. It included the improvement of agricul-
tural output by developing better crop varieties, irrigation, strengthening
of extension services, provision of credit and the strengthening of infra-
structure (rural roads, water supply, marketing facilities). Also, a



- 11 -
regional development agency - the Development Organization for the North
(ODN) - was set up. After initial delays in recruiting international and
national staff, difficulties with counterpart financing, and inadequate
knowledge of the physical and human environment, the project took off
actively and will be concluded during CY83. Appraisal goals were exceeded
with respect to water supply and adaptive research, and fully met for the
roads component, but performance fell short of expectations for irrigation,
credit and extension. These results, however, were finally achieved only
after the completion of a series of additional studies and surveys, and the
subsequent introduction of several adjustments during project implementa-
tion.  Additional studies brought better knowledge on crop patterns and
population distribution, while climatologic, soil, drainage and water man-
agement, and hydrogeological studies provided important insights into the
physical conditions of the project area.  An intensive study of the sugar
economy of the area led to decisive action by Government to improve the
efficiency of the local sugar industry. The adjustments in project design
affected mainly the irrigation component for which the organizational con-
ditions (in particular maintenance capability) were weaker than expected,
the volume of agricultural credit (lower demand than expected) and the
sugar component (sugar industry less efficient than expected). Also, a
revolving fund was established half-way through the project which resulted
in a very marked speedup of project activities and disbursements.
41.       The proposed project would attempt to consolidate and expand the
development activities initiated under the First Rural Development Pro-
ject. It would greatly benefit from the experience gained, but even more
so, from the existence of a now well functioning project implementation
institution (ODN), a more developed infrastructure, newly available tech-
nical packages to improve agricultural output (primarily for rainfed
crops), a network of field stations built up for trials in the main ecolo-
gical zones, and a group of trained technical and administrative specia-
lists and support staff. Some of the auxiliary implementation agencies
(extension service; rural water supply system; road maintenance) have been
strengthened and some parts of the project area have been declared "inten-
sive development zones", ensuring substantial technical and financial
support.
42.       The other two IDA operations in the Haitian rural sector are an
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (FY81; US$3.2 million) and a Pilot
Forestry Project (FY82; US$4.0 million). The Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project was an emergency operation to alleviate the damage to the
agriculture of the southern region caused by Hurricane Allen in 1980. The
project includes the provision of fertilizer and farm tools, and the estab-
lishment of farm service centers and nursery programs (coffee). Initial
difficulties and delays in project implementation occurred due to the lack
of experience of the counterpart agencies with the organization of emer-
gency operations and with IDA procurement procedures. Again, however,
after a certain learning period, the project took off well and is now
almost fully disbursed and will be completed during CY83. The Pilot
Forestry Project will develop approaches to later large-scale reforestation
schemes, train forestry personnel, reorganize the Forestry Bureau and
improve the management of the remaining public forests. It has recently



- 12 -
become effective and all main activities are being initiated. The
Government strongly supports the project in view of the growing dimensions
of the erosion problem and scarcity of fuelwood in Haiti.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       The proposed project was identified by the Cooperative Program
of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO/CP) between March 1979 and
August 1980 and prepared in May 1981. IDA appraisal took place in
September/October 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
May 31 to June 3, 1983, and the Haitian delegation was led by Mr. Claude
Weil, Minister of Planning. A staff appraisal report No. 4369b-HA of June
17, 1983, is being distributed separately.
Project Objectives
44.       The project would help implementing the Government's rural
development policies in the Northern region of Haiti. It would focus on
crop production and concurrent improvements in rural infrastructure and
rural living conditions, affecting - in varying degrees - a target
population of about 135,000 rural dwellers. A concerted program of all
development agencies operating in the project area would provide more
efficient technical packages and strengthen agricultural support services.
Substantial contributions to project costs are expected from IFAD, the
Federal Republic of Germany and France.
Project Description
45.       The project would include the following components:
(a) the rehabilitation of two small existing irriga-
tion systems with a total irrigated area of 460 ha
and on-farm development and maintenance on a total
of 920 ha;
(b) agricultural development, including the strengthening of the
regional extension service, diversification of agricultural
research and expansion of seed production;
(c) the provision of credit (short and medium-term) for small
farmers;
(d) the rehabilitation and construction of 116 km of rural roads
and strengthening of road maintenance for another 200 km of
existing roads;
(e) the construction of 21 community water supply systems and
100 wells, rehabilitation of another 95 existing wells and
improvement of the rural water supply maintenance system;



- 13 -
(f) further institutional development of the Organization for
the Development of the North (ODN), including technical
assistance, studies and training; and
(g) the establishment of a facility ("Rural Development
Fund"-RDF-) to support small-scale local community
development activities.
Detailed Features of Project Components
46.       Irrigation: The project area includes several smaller irrigation
schemes built or rebuilt in the 1930's and 1940's. These schemes, through
the action of time, floods, and neglect of maintenance have deteriorated
and are urgently in need of improvement. The project would rehabilitate
the remaining areas (260 ha) of the St. Raphael system not improved under
the first IDA project, as well as the Grison Garde system (200 ha). At
St. Raphael, during the initial two years, emphasis would be placed on on-
farm development and efficient operation and maintenance of the irrigated
land rehabilitated under the first IDA project. Only thereafter, would new
civil works investments follow (Schedule 1, para. 4(c), of the draft Credit
Agreement, Conditions of Disbursement); consisting of improvements on
critical sections of the main canal lining, on 12 intakes and control
structures, on secondary canals and 35 distribution structures. Likewise,
the drainage system would be improved involving about 6 km of secondary
drains and 50 other structures (drops and culverts). Also, a service road
of about 10 km would be built and on-farm works (improvement of irrigation
and drainage ditches, farm levelling, smoothing) undertaken for about 400
ha. Bilateral technical assistance services (36 man-months for irrigation,
and 48 man-months for on-farm development) financed by Germany (GTZ)) would
assure technical guidance, supervision of the rehabilitation and expansion
of works and the training of local personnel for maintenance functions.
Furthermore, under this component, initial local salary support for
technical staff and vehicles for field activities and a contribution to
their operation and maintenance would be provided.
47.       For the Grison Garde system, serving primarily for intensive rice
production, a new distribution and headwork control structure, 5 new other
control structures and 3 km of rehabilitation of the main canal are
envisaged. The distribution system would be expanded by about 5 km and a
total of 25 control and other structures (drops and culverts) would be
added. For drainage, about 5 km of secondary drains would be constructed
and several natural collectors and other structures (15 drops and culverts)
improved. On-farm works would include irrigation and drainage ditches and
smoothing on 100 ha, and a service road of about 3.5 km.  As in the case of
St. Raphael, major civil works investments would only commence after two
years when further stream flow data have been collected and evaluated
confirming the availability of sufficient supplementary water for an
expanded irrigated area (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft Credit
Agreement, Condition of Disbursement). During negotiations, the Government
has given assurances to undertake a comprehensive irrigation water charges
system study following terms of reference reviewed on the same occasion.
The aim of the study would be to define a system which would gradually
increase water charges to a level allowing the recovery of the largest
possible share of operation and maintenance costs. The recommendations of



- 14 -
the study would be implemented not later than by the end of 1985 (Sections
5.05 and 5.06 of the draft Credit Agreement) and in the meantime (effective
January 1984), the Government is committed to introducing a provisional
water charge of US$ 10 equivalent per ha and year as well as to raise this
charge to no less than US$ 15 equivalent one year later. With respect to
the provisior of counterpart funds for irrigation operation and
maintenance, the Government would make appropriate arrangements (Section
5.04 (a) of the draft Credit Agreement) and has submitted at negotiations
detailed budget estimates for the implementation period of the project and
accepted procedures for periodic consultations with the Association in
order to ensure the adequacy and timely availability of counterpart funds
(Section 4.10 of the draft Credit Agrement).
48.       Agricultural Development: This component would consist of three                    4
related sub-components-Extension and Soil Conservation, Research and
Development, and Seed Production. Currently, there are 30 extension agents
assigned to the project area mainly in activities initiated under the first
IDA project and covering about 50,000 ha of cultivated land. Under the
proposed component, the extension network would be reorganized in order to
improve intensive crop production programs on 920 ha of irrigated and some
8,000 ha of rainfed land. Working closely with the seed supply and credit
services, the extension staff would promote the use of improved varieties
that have been tested under the first project (irrigated rice and
vegetables, rainfed sugarcane, corn, cassava, plantains and beans).
Furthermore, the planting of fruit trees (mangoes, citrus, avocado),
particularly on hillsides, and of trees for timber or firewood on
non-arable land, and the rehabilitation of smallholder cocoa plantings
would be supported. For more efficient soil conservation, the component
would include simple conservation measures such as contour strips of grass,
planting of hedges around farm plots, strip cropping, contour bunding, and
mulching which were promoted on a pilot scale during the first project and
which have been well received. Also, gully control work (partly financed
by the "Rural Development Fund", see para. 54 below) would be supported.
After redeployment, each extension worker would assist about 260 families
operating with the help of local contact farmers. For better mobility and
intensity of farm visits, the component would also provide extension
workers with appropriate motorcycles and support their operating
expenditures; for the conservation measures, tools would be procured.
49.       In Research and Development, farming systems surveys and on-farm
trials mainly dealing with the introduction of improved crop varieties
would be supported.  The existing network of six field trial stations would
be expanded by another seven, and for the improvement of sugarcane quality,
a small control laboratory would be established. An important aspect of
research and development work would be the introduction and monitoring of
improved on-farm irrigation practices (land levelling, furrowing, irriga-
tion scheduling). In Seed Production, the seed multiplication program
started under the first project would be continued and expanded. Also, the
production of fruit and local varieties of timber tree seedlings as well as
cuttings for the renovation of sugar cane plantations would be supported,
primarily through the promotion of small village nurseries in cooperation
with several private volunteer groups active in the area. As the key ele-
ment of the proposed project, Research and Development would be an
important recipient of technical assistance services; 108 man-months in



- 15 -
total, financed by France (48), IFAD (45) and IDA (15). Seed processing
and storage facilities, initial local salary support for technical staff,
testing and harvesting equipment, vehicles (including operation and
maintenance expenditures) as well as farm inputs (fertilizers, pesticides,
seeds) would be provided.
50.       Credit:  The proposed project would include a small credit
component to compensate for the limited access of project area farmers to
institutional short and medium-term credit. Short-term lending would be in
kind and/or cash primarily for seed, fertilizer, pesticide purchases and
seasonal labour; medium-term credit (three to five years) would finance
tree crops, animal production, equipment and on-farm development for
irrigation. For better efficiency in terms of reduced costs and improved
loan recovery, short-term credit operations would be handled by credit
associations (Societes Agricoles de Credit-SACs), organized and supervised
by the Cap Haitien regional office of the Agricultural Credit Bureau
(BCA). SACs exist in the project area since several years and have proved
useful as efficient and reliable borrowers; extension agents would provide
technical assistance for loan applications. Interest rates and other
charges would be those applicable to BCA's nationwide lending program
(presently 12 percent interest annually plus an initial commission of 2
percent). So far, BCA has attempted and succeeded to achieve positive
interest rates (1982 inflation rate = 8 percent). This policy would be
continued and strengthened with IDA assistance by reviewing once a year
with BCA the onlending rates in order to maintain their adequacy with
respect to inflation, cost of funds in the market, and operating costs
(Sections 4.06 (a)-(c) and Schedule 4 of the draft Credit Agreement). BCA
would closely cooperate with ODN which would supervise and refinance, on a
grant basis, the credit component. Should a borrower desire a credit in
kind, ODN would procure or make available from its stocks, the materials or
implements required. However, direct supervision of the individual credit
accounts would be the task of BCA, and ODN would transfer the credit
portfolio it still holds from the first project to BCA prior to credit
effectiveness (Section 7.01(g) of the draft Credit Agreement).
51.       Rural Roads: Difficulty of access to different parts of the
project area has been a major obstacle to agricultural development. As
under the first IDA project, an important rural roads component is proposed
to expand the transport improvement program for the wider project area. It
would consist of the rehabilitation, improvement or construction of 15
sections (116 km) and maintenance support for four years for these as well
as the roads built under the first project (200km). Basic design for all
roads was completed under the first project and generally, these roads
would measure 5 m in width and have good surfaces and adequate drainage for
year-round traffic.  The Government shares the concept of IDA that labour
intensive methods should be applied for all road construction whenever
advantageous and possible (Section 4.07 and Schedule 5 of the draft Credit
Agreement).   In addition to construction and maintenance, the rural road
component would include local salary support for incremental technical
staff, the procurement of spare parts, fuels and lubricants, a staff
training program, and 48 man-months of international technical assistance
services for training as well as operation and maintenance. The Government
would also make adequate arrangements for the provision of a road



- 16 -
maintenance budget (Sections 4.10 and 5.04(b) of the draft Credit
Agreement), and during negotiations has given the same assurances for their
adequacy and timely availability as outlined in para. 47 for the irrigation
component.
52.       Water Supply: During the first project, 23 village water systems
and 135 wells were established. The proposed project would expand this
activity by adding another 21 village water supply systems and 195 wells.
Most of the village water systems would be gravity, springfed type, and
water distribution would take place through communal standpipes. Wells
would be fitted with solid handpumps. As for the installations under the
first project, Community Action Committees - with the technical support of
the National Water Supply Company (SNEP) - would operate and maintain
systems and wells. About 128,000 village dwellers would directly benefit
from this component and the Government is willing to make long-term tech-
nical assistance and budgetary arrangements for the maintenance of all
water supply systems provided under the proposed and the first project
(Section 5.04(a) of the draft Credit Agreement). In order to ensure proper
maintenance, this component would also create a basic stock of spare parts
and provide 50 percent of the incremental salaries for maintenance
personnel. Germany (GTZ) would provide international technical expertise
(30 man-months).
53.       Institutional Development: In view of the complex nature of the
proposed project and in order to coordinate the various participating
agencies, a technically competent and well administered project implementa-
tion agency is an essential prerequisite. ODN, created for the purpose of
the first IDA project, is the most indicated choice for this function.
While still in need of a helping hand for specialised tasks (including
financial management and accounting), it has matured over the past years
and begun to perform well, particularly with respect to organizing research
and seed production and certain maintenance functions. ODN is increasingly
gaining the recognition and political and financial support of Government
as a semi-autonomous regional development organization, a role it is
expected to perform fully after the conclusion of the proposed project. In
order to strengthen ODN in performing its present and future mandate, 56
man-months of international technical assistance services would be provided
by IDA, and France (FAC) would add another 56 man-months for monitoring and
evaluation. Furthermore, France would provide 48 man-months of
international technical assistance services for the establishment of a
training unit designed to train farmers, project staff and workers, in
cooperation with other training institutions in the area. Equipment, the
renovation of existing buildings for training purposes, partial local
salary support, training expenditures and a limited number of scholarships
(5) for in-service training abroad would complement the assistance granted
to ODN.
54.       Rural Development Fund: The project would include a special
facility (mainly financed by IFAD) to support community based actions to
improve rural infrastructure or agricultural production. Typically, these
actions would include flood control measures, small irrigation schemes,
road improvement, innovative local development programs (for example pisci-



- 17 -
culture), beekeeping and cottage industries. ODN would appraise the commu-
nity proposals which are expected to cost individually between US$5,000 and
US$20,000 equivalent. Funds for community action projects would be grants
and IDA/IFAD would review and approve proposals with a cost exceeding
US$20,000 equivalent (Section 4.09 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing, Retroactive Financing
55.       The total project cost is estimated at US$29.2 million equiva-
lent, net of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of US$14.7 million,
or about 50 percent of total project costs. The proposed credit of US$19.1
million would cover 66 percent of total costs and finance 62 percent of the
foreign exchange component and about 69 percent of local costs. IFAD, the
Federal Republic of Germany and France would finance the remainder of
foreign exchange costs and another 20 percent of local cost. The balance
of local costs would be contributed by the Government. Prior to credit
effectiveness, the Government intends to undertake preparations for irriga-
tion investments, initiate studies and strengthen the accounting system of
ODN. Expenditures in this respect not exceeding US$0.3 million equivalent,
incurred after January 1, 1983, are proposed for retroactive financing
(Schedule 1, para. 4(a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
56.       Cost estimates are based on April 1983 prices and a detailed
analysis of quotations received at that time, as well as on actual costs of
similar items procured under the first IDA project. Physical contingencies
have been estimated at 20 percent of base cost for roads built under labour
intensive methods, 15 percent for other construction and 10 percent for
equipment and materials. Prices for imported equipment, scientific
equipment, vehicles, general supplies and materials, and services are
expected to grow 8 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985
and 6 percent thereafter. Local costs are uniformly expected to grow 12
percent per annum during the project implementation period.
57.       In total, 119 man-months of international technical assistance
for the rural roads component, research and development and project
implementation are provided under the proposed IDA project, at an average
man-month cost of US$11,000 (including base costs, assignment allowances
and customary overheads). This cost is considered reasonable in view of
the highly specialized nature of the services required and the large amount
of short-term assignments. Technical assistance specialists would be
contracted in accordance with the "Guidelines for the use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency" of August 1981
(Section 4.02(a) of the draft Credit Agreement). IFAD, Germany and France
would add another 311 man-months of specialist services to the project,
procured,and administered under their own guidelines.
Co-Financing
58.       The contribution of IDA and the Government to the project would
be substantially complemented by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD), the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ) and France
(FAC). The respective amounts totalling US$8.4 million equivalent would be
US$5.0 million; US$2.2 million equivalent and US$1.2 million equivalent.



- 18 -
IFAD would finance important shares of the RDF and agricultural development
and project execution costs; Germany would provide consultants and tech-
nical assistance for water supply, irrigation and sugarcane production,
while France would support consultants for research and development (in-
cluding a group of volunteers), and training. Both bilateral contributions
are foreseen as full grants; the IFAD loan (administered by IDA) would be
for 50 years (including 10 years of grace) at 1 percent interest per
annum. The conclusion of all necessary governmental action to make the
IFAD loan agreement effective as well as the notification of Germany (GTZ)
and France (FAC) that all conditions to the disbursements of their grants
have been fulfilled would be conditions of effectiveness (Sections 7.01 (a)
(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Procurement
59.       Contracts for irrigation works (except for small structures
totalling US$0.6 million equivalent in remote areas of the St. Raphael and
Grison Garde systems for which negotiated contracts or force account
arrangements may be required) and road construction exceeding US$0.5
million equivalent (totalling US$5.1 million) would be procured through ICB
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. For road
construction, wherever possible and advantageous labour-intensive methods
would be applied in line with principles and techniques already established
under the first project as well as under road components of former and
ongoing IDA transport projects. Contracts of smaller volume ranging
between US$0.05 million and US$0.5 million equivalent (totalling US$0.6
million), would be procured through local competitive bidding following
procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts for less than US$0.05 million
(totalling US$0.2 million) may be procured by direct negotiations, provided
all terms and conditions are satisfactory to IDA. Local bidders for civil
work contracts would receive a margin of preference of 7.5 percent. All
contracts for the supply of vehicles, equipment and materials exceeding
US$0.1 million (totalling US$2.7 million) would be procured through ICB,
and contracts between US$0.05 million and US$0.1 million (totalling US$0.2
million) through local competitive bidding. On contracts for the supply of
equipment and materials, the local preference would be the lower of 15
percent or the applicable customs duty. Contracts for the purchase of
equipment and materials for less than US$0.05 equivalent (totalling US$0.6
million) may be procured through direct shopping, locally or abroad.
Approval by IDA of tender evaluation documents for all contracts above
US$0.1 million equivalent would be required prior to the award of all such
contracts. All other contracts would be reviewed in the field by IDA
supervision missions.
Disbursement
60.       The proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  100 percent of total expenditures for civil works with
respect to irrigation, water supply, roads and ODN; vehicles
and equipment for irrigation, water supply, ODN; consultants
for roads and ODN, and training for water supply (US$13.0
million);



- 19 -
(b) 78 percent of total expenditures for road maintenane (US$1.2
million);
(c) 54 percent of total expenditures for water supply mainte-
nance (US$0.2 million);
(d) 30 percent of total expenditures for vehicles and equipment
as well as operating costs for extension, research, seed
multiplication, agricultural credit, training for agricul-
tural development and irrigation, and monitoring and evalua-
tion (US$1.0 million);
(e) 30 percent of total expenditures for civil works with
respect to research, agricultural credit; and local salaries
for irrigation, extension, research, seed multiplication,
ODN, training, and monitoring and evaluation (US$1.3 mil-
lion);
(f) initial deposit in Special Account (US$0.4 million); and
(g) unallocated (US$2.0 million).
Project Implementation
61.       Since the proposed project to a large extent represents an expan-
sion and consolidation of activities initiated under the first project and
ODN would again serve as project implementation agency (see para. 53
above), full project execution could start immediately after credit effec-
tiveness. ODN would directly be responsible for central procurement,
vehicle maintenance, irrigation and water supply systems construction,
research, seed production and the organization of training. Functions such
as road and water supply system maintenance as well as agricultural credit,
however, would be handed over (although remaining under the general coordi-
nation of ODN) to other agencies created or strengthened for this purpose
during the first project. As the project proceeds, ODN would increasingly
assume its role as a regional development agency and not merely act as a
project unit.
62.       In order to define the mutual obligations of all participating
agencies towards the project, the Borrower would conclude an agreement with
ODN, and ODN with all the other agencies, prior to credit effectiveness
(Sections 4.01(b) and (c) and 7.01(e) and (f) of the draft Credit
Agreement), and the efficiency of the working relationship between ODN and
DARNDR would be subject to special periodic reviews (Section 5.03 of the
draft Credit Agreement). Furthermore, in order to ensure that at all times
the project management would be in the hands of competent professionals,
any appointments or changes in the positions of the Director General and
the Administrative/Financial Managers of ODN would require prior
consultation with IDA (Section 5.02(b) of the draft Credit Agreement); the
hiring of a financial adviser would be a condition of effectiveness
(Sections 4.02(b) and 7.01(d) of the draft Credit Agreement). The Project
is expected to be completed by December 31, 1987.



- 20 -
Project Working Fund/Special Account
63.       Since experience with other projects in Haiti has shown that bud-
getary constraints limit the capacity of Government to pre-finance expendi-
tures to be reimbursed under IDA credits, a working fund of US$0.5 million
equivalent (including US$0.1 million from IFAD), to be established and
maintained by withdrawals from the credit accounts, would be set up in a
special account opened in an appropriate bank. IDA would commence recovery
of the initial deposit when the total unwithdrawn amount less all special
commitments to commercial banks has reached the level of US$ 1.0
million (Sections 2.03(a)-(f) and 7.01(c) of the  draft Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Auditing
64.       All entities involved in the project would keep separate accounts
and, with the assistance of ODN, would establish and maintain appropriate
accounting systems (Section 5.01(b)(i) of the draft Credit Agreement). All
accounts would be inspected regularly in accordance with Haitian standard
procedures for the control of development investment expenditures. In
addition, all project accounts would be audited annually by external
auditors whose qualifications are acceptable to IDA and their reports and
relevant statements would be forwarded to IDA not later than four months
after the end of the Haitian fiscal year (Section 5.01(c) and (d) of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Economic Analysis
65.       A detailed economic and financial analysis for all components of
the proposed project (except for the rural water supply) was undertaken.
For the agricultural components, all quantifiable benefits and costs (over
a horizon of 20 years) such as incremental production of food crops,
on-farmactivities, services improvements, infrastructural and irrigation
investments were assessed and taken into consideration. The rural roads
component has been subject to a separate analysis, based on surveys of 15
roads, undertaken during 1982 by ODN and the Ministry of Public Works,
supported by expert consultants. The overall rate of return of the
agricultural components (including institutional costs) is about 20 percent
and not very sensitive to changes in the main benefits and costs. It would
require a decrease in all agricultural benefits by 20 percent, or an
increase in on-farm costs of 83 percent or a substantial delay in the
project schedule (two years for instance) to reduce this rate to about 12
percent. The overall rate of return of the road component is estimated to
be 31 percent (the analysis brought out rates of return varying between 23
and 100 percent for individual road links) and the analysis of switching
values shows that benefits could be reduced by one-half, or costs be
doubled, before the rate of return would fall to 12 percent. A one year
delay in project implementation would depress the rate of return of the
road component to 24 percent. The combined results of the economic
analysis show an overall rate of return of 23 percent for the agricultural
development and rural roads components which account for 82 percent of
total project costs.



- 21 -
Environmental Impact
66.       Deforestation and excessive cultivation of sloping land contri-
bute widely to Haiti's erosion and floods and siltation in the plains.
Since the proposed project would expand the pilot soil conservition mea-
sures started under the first IDA project and in addition promote tree
planting, the environmental impact would be favorable. All agricultural
programs would foster the improvement of varieties optimally adapted to the
ecology of the project area.
Benefits and Beneficiaries
67.       Almost all of the project area's population of 775,000 would
benefit from the project, though in varying degrees. The agricultural
development programs are designed for a direct participation of 6,250 farm
families (about 44,000 persons) and apart from the expected increase in
farm family income, a demand for about 318,000 farmhand man-days annually
would be created for low-skill labour at harvest times and for more
permanent work on farms. The incremental agricultural production arising
from the project (in 1983 prices, after full implementation) is estimated
to reach some 12,000 tons of food crops and vegetables annually,
representing a value of about US$ 4.6 million equivalent. Cash crops
(tobacco, cocoa, sugar cane) would generate another US$ 1.7 million
equivalent. The rural roads component would directly improve the surface
transport and communications situation of 135,000 rural dwellers and the
construction and maintenance requirements would generate a demand for about
21,000 man-days of low-skill labour annually.   The water supply component
would also have a very beneficial impact: 128,000 area dwellers would
receive potable water and a visible improvement in health (particularly
child health) is expected. Since women play an important role in farm
labour and trading activities, several components of the proposed project
directly benefit them as members of the labour force and in their family
roles.
Risks
68.       Experience with on-farm development and rational water management
is still limited and the introduction of new crop varieties and
technologies may occasionally face problems of adjustment. Components
focusing on rainfed agriculture may be affected by the erratic rainfall
pattern in the project area. However, these risks are considered minor and
of short-term impact only. Under the first project, farmers were generally
receptive to change and improved crop varieties. ODN, which has gained
valuable experience under the first IDA project and improved its ability to
deal with project implementation problems, and frequent IDA supervision
missions would monitor project implementation carefully in order to
initiate corrective measures as soon as delays or other critical problems
should arise.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Haiti and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are
being distributed separately.
70.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III of the report.  Conditions of Effectiveness would be (i) the
conclusion of all necessary governmental actions to make the IFAD loan
agreement effective; (ii) the notification by Germany (GTZ) and France
(FAC) that all conditions to the disbursement of their grants have been
fulfilled; (iii) the establishment of a Special Account; (iv) the hiring of
a financial adviser for ODN; (v) the execution of working agreements
between the Borrower and ODN, and ODN and all other agencies participating
in the proposed project, and (vi) the transfer of the ODN credit portfolio
to BCA (Section 7.01(a)-(g) of the draft Credit Agreement).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 17, 1983
Washington, D. C.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                    Page I of 5
TABLE 3A
RAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RAITI                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIG TED AV  GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'-
TOTAL             27. 8                               MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      13.9              1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAX  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  90.0       110.0    270.0                    1902.0                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF C A, EQUIVALENT)      34.Z        32.7      63.3                   1259.9                    610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 3630.0       4235.0   5009.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.6        19.9      27.5                     65.7                     28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       7.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        13.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACRED                 2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      130.8       152.6     177.3                     35.2                     54.7
t                    PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    305.0       293.1     352.8                     92.5                    129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.9        42.9      43.4                     39.7                     46.0
15-64 YES.                         55.2        53.4      53.1                     56.1                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.9         3.7       3.5                      4.2                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.6         1.5       1.7                      2.4                      2.8
URBAN                              4.1         4.0       4.9                      3.8                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     38.8        37.1      35.5                     31.4                     47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.5        16.6      13.8                      8.4                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0         3.0       2.4                      2.1                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..      16-1/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..       5.0/c
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         104.0       100.0      89.0                    110.0                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   91.4        86.8      92.1/d                  108.4                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          48.7        47.0      50.1Jd                  66.0                      54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       16.8        16.7      17.7/d                   34.0                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     46.5        29.1      18.1                      5.6                     23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.4        48.9      53.2                     64.2                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOVSAND)                          182.0       142.6     114.6                    64.2                     118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      14.0/c                   65.6
URBAN                               ..          ..      38.0/c                   78.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       7.0/c                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                     59.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                     75.3
RURAL                               *-         1.0        ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          9230.0     10609.2   5936.3/d                  1617.3                   4185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4021.8      3077.4   2936.9/d                  1063.5                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1567.4      1194.6   1218.9/d                  477.4                    1036.4
tURBAN                           298.0       470.9     583.41d                 679.8                     430.8
RURAL                               *       5075.8    3309.7/d                 1903.4                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         3.6       4.4/c
URBAN                               ..         2.2       4.2/.c
RURAL                                                    4 4.3  4.5/c
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.9
URBAN                               ..         2.0
RURAL                               *          1.9
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         4.1       2.9/e
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 24 -                                               ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                               Page  2  of  5
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV EaAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
M)ST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE TNCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0         51.0      62.0                     104.3                      83.3
MALE                  50.0        57.0         ..                    106.4                      96.1
FEMALE                42.0        46.0         ..                    103.3                      80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  4.0          6.0      15.0                     41.3                       15.3
MALE                   5.0         8.0       16.0                     40.4                      19.4
FEMALE                 2.0         4.0       13.0                     41.8                      11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  21.4          19.0       8.0/c                    33.7                       4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            42.9         52.3      41.2/d                   29.9                       38.6
SECONDARY                          12.7         18.0      27.0                     16.7                       23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0        23.3       23.0                     79.1                      35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.3          2.7       4.0/c                   42.8                       31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.8         19.6      20.5                    270.5                       71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.5          2.6       3.0                    107.7                       17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERFST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  10.5         18.7       6.9                     63.7                       19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        1.21d                    2.7                       0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1970.9       2102.4    2375.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   47.6         47.0      46.1                     24.4                       36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              80.0         74.2      73.5                     31.3                       56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.4          7.2       7.2                     23.9                       17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                54.3         49.6      47.4                      33.6                      37.0
MALE                                  58.4        54.3       52.5                     50.4                      46.9
FEMALE                               50.4         45.2      42.6                      16.8                      27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8         0.9        1.0                      1.3                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
BIGEEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     169.0/d                      ..                     507.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     144.0/d                  184.1                      200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
LURBAN                               ..           ..      82.0/d                  518.0                     523.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      73.0/d                  371.1                     203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0/d
RURAL                                ..           ..      78.0/d
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
Ic   1976; Id 1977; /e 1975.
May, 1982



- 25--                                                          ANNEXi
mITsuooon famUCl                                                          Fa-ge  3o f 5
Noost Aoh..0 o. dom oo 4r   O       -a 00  ---U V o 19 .o90  00.0 .000 -th-fotto. .0.  -tol., Ltb- oho.1  m .. ho t..  that thoy sy 00t 00  otot-
moolemoly o.bIobo-          .0 o. look of  Oado4 4.010040. sd  -oop-o -o.4 by 41100.-0  onor0 -              00l E.1o       tOo. dt...  000 dot 0g  mo
t0.00,, ,ooofil to dd,sofb. 00d.. of 00900100=  Mlct.ol  tonfo. 50d oO.00tt,oOoo  ortoth m1-.dff 0.0.0. bOt-on  o-oto00o.
r00 -&-tOo  poop. -t  (1) 0100  -0  -0000  fOOP of t00 o00j..t  -0000  A0. (15 o  -u?00  a ..p olob  h0,,9. a000-0   -.9.og  bo-. o0-  t.o      -oooto  goop
of t0. .00)00  00-00  (-0..F. 00-  "9101  lo00.   Oi. foooor           oP 00000 't00441o I0.0. 000010 4011. 004 0041. &Wol La 000.0 bo-so   of .oooo
oool-Ootat"l .000it00).  10 000 00000,00  poop 40t0 tho 0000090  000 P.P.Iti.. 00000,4 -t.00 t0010  -a090 fo- .00  00d0000  00  b1-. oly .0
moodyof tOo oo-oo0  L. . 50-p9 b.. d.00  fo- thot iodOooo-  Si..0 0h0 ---Oo. of --foolo  o.-I tho1000, dopoodo no 110 OoOlblitOy of 4.0.
.04 J. 000 -t-u,p.  oooo00 0t  oxotoo -        00- I ..0 00gav o  of -0  OodLoooo  to aoot-r  70.0  0-05_0 -O 017 000l0.10   -oO-oolo  Oo p.l.  of
-0 lodioa-  0t 0 0000    og oh. 000000  .4  -f-o.o  poo..P.
km0 lo.4oOm)Potoo   otOooo  o   otool otbo. .0   Mtn!    PoPolooioo (total.
70.0.  - 700. 00000000  ooopoofo  100  --0.0d4olaod - ...00; 1979 d.t..                     oro, 0   .01     ;004 4 by  0.0  001.0000000-  -b-000f bo-pitol b04.
AgqOpItatalo. - 000t0t0  of s000.ooO-oP0O    00000.0  .0.0.000  00 o  p0000001              -0.0b000  Io Pb010. --A P000-   00,001 000  oe 00100.4 b00Pit.1  od Mo-
of orop.. p-t00r0. 000001.0  k10tb0, g*taaao n  to Uf. 9W11.; 1979 d.00.                 boOOllO.cl -s.00000. hooPOOol  .000   OhlhoooP0070000y .0t0004
by 00 10.0  -0  phr.iciad.   000000e t- p.04009 prooo0p.lly -.t00-
0. 0 I 4 A7 00000) - OM7 pOP 0094: .0-t-0.00 00000  t00  p ita.. -.1-                   400  0_0 -0 000 Ooi.4d, 0o1- hopoo. bo,.-,il. 0014   .01t0
0.00   07 0    to000000  000000 00 W9000  "a0 001   (1978-080 000001 1960.             0dd .0140.1 .-00.07000  P.00000  0000f0  by7 0 p070l0100 (bot by 
1970, 00d 2980 do...dO.o0  oooO.fo. oooo. .1.0..0.   bhIo  offer 00-poofoot .0--
4.00.0  00    - 000040  lOsOtoo  -00   of -0.400,  f-o010t0-   Pot  0..00t.-
I0ON 0050770  FM0 00717  - A000100-  09000of  -00.000  Ol-O   (0.1                    00~.l .0.00000  .00.  i.pio.  000. 900. ptia.00Pot/ooooo   Ooort.0.-
000 17000,0o0p.100. 0tat1 000 000 0740-. 00000  .d4 g,oftssfo  0000-                004  -.01 OompiOol.. 10.1 00 00000 00p00    0  .04U10  00d 50000007
toiclty) Io ol1lostada of  0.0L oo,ol-o  p-opit.00; 1990, 1910. add 1979                   -0tel0. 00p0011004 hw,pt.l. ore 00010.d 00l7 00.0  tOftl.
d.t..                                                                                    A4.".00.0  -0  0,,it,0 0B4 - Tot.L -",e  . of0d00000 0  ot., d4000-.00
ft.  0.00p0.00 40004. 10y 00. oo0- of b.4,.
POPULATION9 AND VITAL $7AT100100
Tot.lfoolO0o. d1-ot-  f                   A.ooool-h  of J01y 1; 1990. 1979. aod 1980   000014
rtb.0 rpool.cloo (pe-00  of 00000) -  .0000 0,1,, 00 00.0. Popolooioa;                     0. _ 00..01  00.00000  * otoo   fOdodo.              00  000100 90000000
40000000  4.010t0.- .f 000  -00  07 001ft ... P0t-b1lty of 4.00                           04 099ff -010  -I01.  0t 0,004rd  00 lodg.r 00y 00 007 00t 0  lolOdod 00
_000  00t00100  1900. 0970  ,od 1900 d4.,.                                                Oh. hooohold for nuooitiol0000.
P0ilid     ad11Wbyo   004 00 -004 th.l rt.oOlOty 00 fttoility  M0,.                 dOO11lOfO. 00.p00t001.  Dwo121.&. 0001000 0d.00p00000   007000000, 004
000,rt00 aIomoOro -o    010 r         ot,. oO-_eOO of 0t,-  1-010  -000                000Pod potts.
00g .100  000000   0000h Oo-oo..O I 10  0007 0 0P., Capite 000=                     A000..   01000100.0  (-0000  of 4.010-00  - 00.0  -bo 00.d00  000   -
10001, 004 0,0.1 1000 007000000  CtOOiOoOf a  70.5 yeooo. The Po00-                    OOvOotooI 400009  00  el-oolo0  00 0000   q00rte  00 000000009
0t00000  for t0. L00t0  0000 .1so h.", 1t000  -10001.00010  40010t  E0toft1l0  oohs, .0d -0,1 40013000, roopoto-ly.
f_o  tiOy --odiog to i-,0  lorl o0d P-o  10.011 pl.aorf.  0000f.-00-
00th 00000  00 0000 0L.0000  -0  of 00.0  000000-010001000 of 0000100              EDUCATION0
00 00000100  000000 fo- p010010 t0700.-                                              4410000 0,00.000001
St00.o0-0r roeol-oo    - 1. . ot,Otooao  p00p100100 th-   a  10.0 000  01000            pEi0000.0   tot al .004fO o- O, 000. 00100..d00001
tb. hfrth -000 Is oqoo  to th. datb 0t.0. -d.048000 000,0  -00o0,0 to                        el t-t Of .11 0000000  p01.00   001  00                   of00.0   00  0 -0000
0000  00000.  00   000,00-0  017 .00- 0000010ty 00000 d00l00  t0                 70000  aoh00l-p ~popoltio..; 00-IlyP0,.. 000d0,   W~d 6-0IL
the.p0000  1-01 of oolt -  eprodatt00000..t, 0...oah .000000                             Y-at boO 0430000  f-dfrot 4000   .90 f p00-y.07 -400010; for
of 00-   -rplat.o 0t0,0  -sooly.  The wtatlonsy  popotioo ole.  -o                       -00t.i.. 0100 0000000  Od-.tot   00              -yo    0  000.0d 100 p0,0t
e:tott..0  000.  100,0,i of 000 proj-to4OMad eo.     f0 0000  popolatiot                 000.00 poPllo 00  below or otto  the offorOol 00000  09.,
t0 0. 700  2D00. .04 000 tot,       - of 4,010.   000000  0000 00 ropl.o,-           loo40   t0o      .,.0000   ,oo-  .0040   000   ,040
1-1 ew.                                                                                040001toOo   0lat fo-  700000 ofpp-ord pooloory 1-t-r lao0;
0080 SOOtOo0 p00000t   000- 1000 fOP 0000 000000-0  p000100000                             p00040  000000, 000_000. 00 00000. 0000.0i i000000000, 000 popilo
000 ll1 be r-ro.00117 tof 02000 770000   000.,                                                                                 g0000000..00  0            -oOoly
P. t.  00.    Wd0-700poO_ lO   0  000-  kL10000r 0100 h-.00..0) of                     0.-I.00.0  -otoloeo   (000t0 Ofooodro    000a0.00  10,tOtoO1a00
00001 00..; 19000  0970 .0d 009 a0.-                                                   -10000  tOboleA l  0.4.000001.M00001,0 0000  00100 000000  1040004-
700 0. 0-0.. ooIot. W-1 100  - 00.00000  oo sho-  for 0901000t0.  1.04                  0,tly 0000 dpar--.t Of  -.oodaoy 001000
0007; 10900. 1070 004 1970 4000.                                                     Popi-t ... h. 0000 -  root.04d0040  - T-01 0000   -orollo  0
P0000010   o 10t0000,0 (pooot - C10i140-  10-14 y-o,r0    - 00000-ag  (11-                 pri-00  00   _..0040  loo.  dlo 400d,by .,of,oo  of 00..0. I   0,1 tOo
00  0.0). .   00000,4 165  -000  04  00) 5S rtt.. 0000000   07.0-70.0 pap.-             -0000p0 0d 00000
I'llo140 10. 04 190010..400 A                                                                10100.t-  0000 (00,000t - 0L00,00    oloo 00000.0t  -d, 004 -i0t0)
Ooo.otlt OtooOb0.00100,00-    - toal - 4A.00 p0000  -000  of 0001 004-               sOreOooof 0001  d4.1t 0010    .ood 15 yea.-. 000
10000, 00  91060.19060-0. ood -1970.                                              P00.00fo,(pt0b004 9.oo0.,. o-toOOro001O  00
H001010  09910, 117,0410.                                                                00100007 oebfol.. .a h- d-t                                            o-
0 .4000  0000 00, 00000>   A.000  0.0000 p0r 000.04.  of .O4-yr                      0.40. 0.00000  (per thoosoof 'pol00000    Al 07p-0 tof 00,000 -  -d.0
000000  1060, 1970. oI10  40.                                                       00.0400  00  .-0,  io t P.0 0t000   of Pop.ti.oo   -1.04,.0.
IA0 ,00.00 00 - -000   00,00  of d-gh000. 5000.111 1000 It                                 O tOloor1.0000.000y.r000odorOo   f041
I.01 loo0-fot(0000o000.000 -Po0ooo0ft-of o..ooOodd1, 0000000.0 0704 009 0700li 0 00., - - -                                        00  09000000  0,00
000 Io Ldl-hooo0.0 ag  (15-04 70-) obo -0  hOtib-,otIo  4,-0-  to                 00000000  CI-I.l0Ioo (per  h.ooo,0  P.o1,01o.lo    Sho,- 000 00000  0,.-
00010000.0. d-oeato-4       l 700110  -0-o,.O0  00001  -00   ft i0 0-0140004
F0M  "00 007000710                                                                           00 00 "4001" if 0 0pp-0to 00 1.00. 0000 0000 0 ook.
Lodea of Food F.dootioo 000 Cor0  (1999-71-10   - 00400 of 000 007000 c0001              00.0 0. l .htod,t,or    tl. per 70.0 - 0.004   too00 Oo00or of
POOdooOOof  .01 0004 todOOo.         =p00010  0l0d0  .0.4  00f 0, 00                     000t0 0014  000  0100 t 000 Y.-,100 8..oo . to 4010-0 oo.oo
00 0    l0104r 700000. b-     o41000sa 0000  9000  00040 (0.0. 0000000                   add  .001  0000..
0000004 tO  -gr0) 0000  -0 04010] o4 ...oO  000000  (0.0.  off 0.,00
00  at  ot..o4.Aggosoto pood-.I..0 Of h000-0000  1. 10000 00                    0000 700
OOoo 000000  p-d4.0, 0000  01g00.; 1961-00  1970. 000 I00  440.,T0001 0.0000 F0,0  (0t000004)                                               P...-.0Y000  0000  0001040,
P_r _0,10,.00,f -,1000. (-  ..t of rofOIfo.otg) -CowottO boo                               otd 0for0  004 000,pl070  boo 0000.d40  bo0          0  00000.  0..
00007 oooO  of -o food 00000.0              oIo 0000007pe             I. _0,            00,0 .0p.plooio  of 011 0g00.  0.0f0000ti .. L0000 0- 0r000
pro daY.  AroOotl  ooppli..000. dnO   rror000ao. 109000 100                              001 ..  totob    1960, 0000 00a 1900   0,
-0000Lo0...oed 00U700  0000000000. 004 1f",            . ood0000o000   kqoro           Ak5,Jo-oo) -  -1 t.bo   fro. 10 f-o ..log. foety.W 00000   fo04
00006_ _00,000-0 by 5 0FAD         00.      phy.olooor-l aaado for t-,,  -.or-            P01008 p000     of 00_1 20.0 foooo; 1900, 1970 aod 1990 4000.
0007 00_oft 00400  0000000000l 000000000  6040f0000000  0a0                              1040,0  0000      00  06 oo 00 mt-tg.   o 00000 0.W  OSboof-;oOo
100-b00l1  -1,01  1961-65, 1970 004 1977 d,1,.                                             1900  190  .  090I    ,
Pe Or.oP0000,f 0000  000004E                 ,01r000o   oo cait                    Potoioo    0..  (0,000  - 0001. osIo. 004 foos   - PtOOOOPoOOt 0
0000071  of load P.t da.90* I 00 0004 0. 4000,d .. bo.  0,-                           -00000  00000  -_ 0._000  -0 t00a1. -1, 04 female 1,00   orE---
qtL-t.01  00, 011 000000.0  -abli.ho0   by US0A p-ld04  for 0101-.                       rotOnotOOr of 0001, 0.00 0,0 to-I. p700.10  of 001 090g ,000007
0020,00,  007 60 poo    00001.  0,00000 0040  004 0d  1000000- ollOo  0-4                1900  1970, 004 1900 dots.  Thoo 000 10.4d 00 114'. oo00.000
polo  0,000i0. of eOrh 10 0000  ohood 00 onOsol poteI.    too  .0-                      rofloottf 000-0,  00.- -, 00  -0  o0.ploti- . 0  1-g t00 0,-d. 
M:d 000 boor 0000 01000 of 75 90*  E0 0-.1 p0000t.i.        00 070,_ a4                  Op00000   0  f-o  0t.0000  ..,.t....
001,1 0-000010  ,oot-OOoo 00  010 -Io4, 0`.00.  by 740 L to 00 T1010                   0000000000   .0      .010 of 000..1000  0040  15 04 61 0,  00
00010 flood S000,; 1961-65. 1970 1,0 0970,"" 001 .                                       0  010000000 1000d00000
000-4 fr-  00010004 7.0010 Or.. P0 doy; 1961-65. 1970 oo  1977 dot..                 007700 01770007700
Chtld (.01-4) 0,00-      t fot0000000) - .00,0  40000  "0O 0100000  to                   700.00o  71oto.0 (both 1000  004 00.40   R.0000   by 0000
09      -,,, 1. 000. 00  10040, 0000O  0000, for 000 40000p00 g 00               50001.0090    P0  ..000.  7000000a 20 p0000 0W        4 P000000 41 90000
0010  4000 4-0-0  0000 100   01,  1900. 1.970 000 1980 400..                            of 00,0000140.
0000 tooaooay 00 0.01 Ooao.) - 800.0  a0b-r of 00-0  of 100  r.o00o             1, 1001009 -000.0000 --0 -00  oOpeat0-0  00           0of p00000  10-0..
00 0.000; 0990.0070004  990"40.,                                                 sod A..014 00 itoop-ad, olth 0.0100,001, t0.00..
100700  M"0000  0000 oa, th-oon.   - Ado-al death. of 10000000040  00  YOOt              X.ti-&0O  Ahalat. Po-ory 0700-  0000  (070pe ofo   - 0100040. -1
o4op _P b0O0  lIv  0.0000; 16040  0070 .d410   00                                   000   000   00 1100100000  000t1.10.00obt  0  i00011
0000   ,, .   V ,000,0.0  of Iorlt..) - 00101, 00s. 0-4 -001 - No-                    o,tOOooI ooo.,40  p100 r000,000  .00food  r900000   1000
hom 0P-oPI, (00,.o      00. 04  0015 000 0000000910 00000  00 Zf                         aft-rdable.
.00   oplU.    ot,o  00001,0 00 t00   00000   -t00000d;b.t adtoOo.-ootd                0.010.0d ROst-O_ 70-0         1000  on000eo000)-  000.0.1I  i:1 11   I0d0r0 -1
thO 00   00.0 fO. 07000000  b-,bal.,o  000409, .00  -000.07 -0110  00-00  -L,0. . 00000  0000000  0oL t. Pdt   _0000. P., 00000
0000.000_ of00.00  -00.0.00000000.0-                    000., 0     bl00001              00000  I0000  of th. 0000y.  10b-100  01 10 000000  0,0  0t000000
000-00. 00 010047000 10000, 00000  1000 200 000  000  0 00000 007 0.0                    10000 0000  djt.43  0to  00,000 000  of 01010  10 oeOo  .e.m,.
bisdpr  0  0m  vlthio  moo,,oble .oOo  of tbot 0.00.  00  0001000               0.040.0d PooultIa ". E10  00.01,0  Po-rylono00.  ,                   ;001.-ob..
oe.,bl. -= .0000d 0p)7 e6.. tho ho--iof. 00   .h-. of th. Oo0,o0ld                     004 0000    P-P000 -E po.P1.oOoo to_b, o0  001  .00 00 t        0.lo
0000:17', 000 00000. 
b,.00 y000   hoo 0700.0 o   0000100b.  -  of00t00.~1 000. s    0001-
0000oV`    ol   001 P'    ha"" 00  00001) 0000 .by 00o00  40070.0 'b.i *-0                                                          a     f1 .  
p0000000of060  00000.0b00             aoooto. 0i.0000 I.-L.oo                                                           Wad"7A 0001040j-i-Dp
Pa0,01000 000 X-00.0  por--  - Pdp00L000 d1604.4 by ,b*r 00 putao0lo99                                                                   May 1902
001  .o4 00l.0  0000000. 00..,osuotoo  00000 00000,0  00-0  00
_.I.00  000110005



- 26 -
ANNEX I
HAITI - ECONOMIC DATA 1/                  Page 4 of 5
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% in constant prices)
US$ Million      Z                     1965-75 3J   1970-75 3/    1975-824/
GNP at Market Prices                  1,635.9    100.0                       1.4            3.8             3.4
Gross Domestic Investment               180.2      11.0                     11.8           14.2             0.2
Gross National Savings 2/                 5.5       0.3                     13.7           19.7            -4.4
Current Account Balance                 -63.7       3.9                     -               -                -
Export of Goods, NFS 5/                 250.0      15.3                      1.2           11.9             4.9
Import of Goods, NFS 5/                 403.0      24.6                     4.7           10.0              1.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
Value Added
US$ Million         %
Agriculture                             324.6      31.9
Industry 6/                             246.6      24.2
Services                                446.4      43.9
Total/Average                  1,017.6    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 7/                Central Government
G Million        X of GDP             G Million         Z of GDP
1981       1975    1981    1982         1981         1975    1981       1982
Current Receipts                      1,171.5      13.1       15.2    ..         655.9         9.3     8.7        9.2
Current Expenditures                  1,220.4.    11.7        16.8    ..         886.4         8.2    11.7       10.9
Current Surplus(+) or Deficit (-)       -48.9       1.4      -1.6    ..        -230.5          1.1    -3.0       -1.7
Capital Expenditures                    623.2       7.5       9.7    ..          698.9        5.5      8.5        7.6
External Assistance (net) 8/            461.7       5.2        7.4    ..         606.6         4.5     7.4        6.5
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1970    1976    1977       1978       1979      1980        1981       1982
(Million G Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi-Money                         198.2   743.9   930.6   1,159.7   1,353.5   1,592.6   1,812.0          2,O13.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  189.2   346.3   288.9      332.0      392.2      605.6     838.1       1,079.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 65.3   519.7   658.0       791.5      921.8   1,010.4   1,118.4        1,102.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP              10.0    16.9    19.8      23.5        23.8      22.9      23.9            24.6
Consumer Price Index (Base 1976 - 100)        50.2   100.0   107.4    104.3         114.4    135.0      156.6          169.1
Consumer Price Index(annual percentage          3.3    10.2      7.4      -2.9        9.7       18.1      15.9           8.0
changes)
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  -2.1      8.9    16.6       14.9       18.1       54.1      38.4          28.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   9.9    15.2    26.6       20.3      .16.5        9.6       10.7         -1.4
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/     Data refer to FY ending September 30.
2/     Does not include current transfers.
31     IHS, Comptes de la Nation, 3/31/81.
4/     World Bank estimates.
5/     Net of imported inputs for assembly industry exports.
6/     Mining, manufacturing, public utilities and construction.
7/     Consolidated Accounts of Central Government and Public Enterprises, 1982 figures are not yet available.
8/     Net disbursements of loans and grants.
9/     N.A. is Non-Applicable.
May 1983



- 27 -
ANPg I
HAITI - TRAD)E PAESTS AND CAPITAL PLANS                 Page 5 of 5
MALANCE OF PAYIJdNTS                                                                             Um MISE *mXOtTS (AverE  1979-42)
1976     1977    1978      1979       1980    1981      1982                                             IIJ          S
Hillton
Coffee                                   49.8       29.0
Export of Goods, NFS          .47.3    181.0    203.6   209.1   288.1   248.4   250.0            Cocos                                     4.2        2.4
Import of Goods, NFS         -225.5  -269.0   -292.2  -342.2  - 431.0  -491.7  -398.2            Es"ntial Oils                             5.9        3.4
Resource Gan (deficit - -)    -78.2   -88.0    -88.6  -133.1  -142.9  -243.3  -14S.2             Bsuxite                                  19.9       11,0
Assembly Industry (nat)                  44.4       27.1
Interest Payments (net)        -7.2   -12.1    -14.7   -13.4   -14.3   -14.4   -15.3             Small Induatry sad  aNdicraft            24.9       14.5
Other Factor Payments (net)       ..       ..       ..        ..       ..       ..       ..      All Otber Coinoditis                     21.6       12.4
Net Transfers                   65.1    61.5       77.9     85.8    72.0    98.6    99.8             Total                               17 Y     1lil
Balance of Current Account    -         -38.6    -25.4   -60.7   -85.2   -3591S      -63.7
EXTRNL DIRT  SEP!IR 30, 1932               11P Mllie
Direct Foreign Investment        6.8      8.0      10.0    12.0    13.0        8.3    13.6       Public Debt including guarsatead              404.9
Net MLT Borrowing               24.8    50.2       42.2    33.1    36.6    82.2    46.2          Mon-Gusrantead Private Debt
Disbursements                33.3    60.5       51.3    39.3    46.5    98.8    55.9          Total Outstanding ad Disbursed
Amortization                  8.5    10.3        9.2      6.2      9.9     16.6      9.7
Other Items, n.e.i.              0.1    -6.8    -16.5       29.8     23.8    13.1    -7.3        DEST SV}C11   RATIO FOL 1982                    f
Increase in Reserves (-)      -11.6   -12.8    -10.3   -14.0         11.8    55.5      11.2
Pablic Debt, including guaranteed               7.5
Gross Reserves 1/               28.3    35.9       49.8    59.1    52.2    34.7    50.7          Non-Guaranted Private Debt
Net Reserves 1/                -4.9       8.6      22.9    39.0    29.8        2.0    -6.7      Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                      DIRD/D)A LENDIN  (September 30, 1982)        4  illiMe
Imports                      17.1    23.6       24.5    34.5    63.0    61.0         n.&      Outstanding and Disbursed                      %.2
Exports                         -        -        -         -       -                         Undisbursed                                    73.7
Outstanding including undisbursed             19.9
I/ ConLsolidated banking system
- Not applicable.
Not Available
May 1983



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
--------US$ Million--------
Loan or                                                     (less cancellations)
Credit                                                   Bank
Number     Year       Borrower            Purpose       Amount   IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and five credits have been fully disbursed    2.6        51.9
675-HA     1977  Republic of Haiti  Rural Development             10.0       0.4
757-HA     1978  Republic of Haiti  Water Supply                   6.6        1.7
770-HA     1978  Republic of Haiti  Education II                  10.0       3.9
807-HA     1978  Republic of Haiti  Transportation V              15.0       0.2
895-HA     1979  Republic of Haiti  Power II                      16.5       4.4
1106-HA    1981  Republic of Haiti  Agricultural
Rehabilitation             3.2        1.1
1121-HA    1981  Republic of Haiti  Ports                         11.0       6.1
1131-HA    1981  Republic of Haiti  Industrial Credit              7.0       6.6
1220-HA    1982  Republic of Haiti  Highways VI                   14.0      13.7
1257-HA    1982  Republic of Haiti  Forestry                       4.0       3.9
1281-HA    1982  Republic of Haiti  Power III                     26.0      21.3
1305-HA    1983  Republic of Haiti  Education III                  9.0       9.0
1338-HA 1/ 1983  Republic of Haiti  Urban Development              8.0       8.0
SFOl-HA 1/ 1983  Republic of Haiti  Urban Development             13.0      13.0
Total                                 2.6    205.2       93.3
of which has been repaid           2.6
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                           0.4
of which has been repaid           0.4       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA               205.2
Total undisbursed                                       93.3
1/    Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in $ Million
Year            Borrower                 Business        Loan   Equity   Total
Promoteurs et               Integrated      1.35    0.15      1.50
Investisseurs               Poultry
Associes, S.A.                            _
Total Gross Commitments                     1.35    0.15      1.50
Less Repayments
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                    1.35    0.15      1.50
Total Undisbursed                           1.35    0.15      1.50



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as of March 31, 1983) 1/
Credit 675      Rural Development Project; US$10 Million Credit of January 14,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1977; Closing Date:
Originally December 31, 1981, postponed to June 30, 1983.
In the beginning, the project was facing difficulties but has taken
off well recently. Disbursements now are flowing rapidly. While agricultural
field trials and rural water supply components have progressed beyond
appraisal expectations, implementation of the roads component is slightly
behind schedule. The irrigation component has been reduced substantially.
The Government has expanded the financial autonomy of the project agency and
has established a revolving fund to help speed up the disbursement process.
The credit is almost fully disbursed and is expected to be closed as presently
scheduled.
Credit 757      Provincial Towns Water Supply Project; US$6.6 Million Credit of
January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: Originally December 31, 1981, postponed to
December 31, 1983.
This project is about 18 months behind schedule because of original
delays in the appointment of consultants; delays in issuing bid documents and
the need to rebid for three of the seven project towns. The technical assis-
tance component is proceeding well. The (Federal Republic of Germany)
KfW agreed to finance two towns when it became clear that the UNCDF grant was
not enough to cover three towns. UNCDF has increased its allocation for the
remaining town. The total cost of the project is about US$1.7 million above
appraisal estimates. Because of poor contractor performance, a re-arrangement
of contracts has been undertaken and has led to a strong acceleration of
project activities and disbursements.
Credit 770      Second Education Project; US$10 Million Credit of March 16,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 25, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project is about 15 months behind schedule due to a shortage of
local counterpart funds in previous years.  However, sufficient counterpart
funds are now provided on a regular basis. School construction has been
stepped up under new procedures and the supervision of the Project Unit.
Progress in the educational aspects of the project is satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to
report any problems which are being encountered, and the action being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Credit 807      Fifth Transportation Project; US$15 Million Credit of June 9,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1978; Closing Date:
Originally December 31, 1981, postponed to June 30, 1983.
(a) Road Component: Civil works have been completed and accepted by
Government. Studies for the preparation of a Sixth Highway Project
were completed and provided the basis for appraisal. The component
is almost fully disbursed.
(b) Coastal Shipping Ports Component: Construction of the three pilot
ports for coastal shipping is complete and the terminals are being
put into operation. The new facilities are efficiently administered
and experimental port charges are being collected from port users.
Consulting work on an accounting study for the National Port
Authority is progressing satisfactorily. The component is almost
fully disbursed.
Credit 895      Second Power Project:US$16.5 Million Credit and US$6 Million
and             EEC Special Action Credit of May 31, 1979; Date of
EEC Special    Effectiveness:  April 21, 1980; Closing Date:
Credit 4       December 31, 1983.
The project, co-financed by CIDA (Canada) under a grant of Can$17.1
million, suffered an initial delay resulting from a disagreement between
Government and EdH on contract award for the diesel generators and the subse-
quent dismissal of EdH's management and main consultants. Credit effective-
ness was delayed almost one year and the implementation of important institu-
tional and technical aspects up to 18 months. However, due to quicker
delivery of generators and IDA-arranged overlapping of consultant services,
overall delay will only be about three months. The main component, the expan-
sion of the Varreux power station, proceeded according to schedule. Cost
increases caused a slight reduction in project scope (distribution compo-
nent). The project is now advancing and disbursing in a very satisfactory
manner.
Credit 1106    Agricultural Rehabilitation Project; US$3.2 Million Credit of
April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1981;
Closing Date: Originally September 30, 1982, postponed to
September 30, 1983.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding well. Five
thousand tons of fertilizer have been purchased and shipped to local
distribution centers. The tools purchase program is terminated and 16 farm
service centers have been established. Coffee nurseries produced 2.7 million
plants in 1982 and are expected to turn out 4.0 million plants in 1983. The
credit is almost fully disbursed and is expected to be closed as presently
scheduled.



- 32 -                             ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Credit 1121    Port Development Project; US$11.0 Million Credit of April 13,
1981; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The two construction contracts of the project, for the new terminal
in Cap Haitien and for seven coastal shipping ports, are on schedule and
progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study for the expansion of the
international terminal at Port-au-Prince is being continued by consultants.
The National Maritime and Navigation Service has begun operations in early
1983, with the support of technical advisors.
Credit 1131    Industrial Development Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness:  December 8, 1981;                      a
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Industrial Development Fund has committed about US$0.8 million
for 22 subprojects and a direct loan to the Haitian Development Foundation.
Most of the banks in Haiti have started to participate in the discount
operations, In order to accelerate the preparation of subprojects, a project
preparation service, making use of the services of private local consultants
has been established. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 1220    Sixth Highway Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of April 27,
1982; Date of Effectiveness: December 17, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985,
Procurement of road maintenance equipment is well advanced;
contracts for the purchase of 88 units of equipment have been signed.
Preparations for the rehabilitation of the Northern Road are on schedule.
Engineering, including bid documents, were completed in December 1982.
Credit 1257    Forestry Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of June 16, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: December 14, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project is presently taking off. Appointments to the Forestry
Bureau have been made. The Senior Forestry Consultant has been recruited and
is about to start his assignment; the two instructors for the training
component have as well been selected. Procurement for materials and vehicles
is in process.
Credit 1281    Third Power Project; US$26.0 Million Credit of August 18, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: November 23, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Overall, the project is advancing on schedule and within estimated
budget. Orders for equipment for the Carrefour diesel powerplant, the main
component of the proiect, have been placed and construction of the powerhouse
has begun. Engineering work has been completed for other components of the
project including repairs of the Peligre dam, renovating of the Port-au-Prince
distribution network, and the national power company's headquarters building.
The feasibility study for the Guayamouc hydro-electric project is also
progressing on schedule.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Credit 1305    Third Education Project; US$9.0 Million Credit of
January 14, 1983; Date of Effectiveness: March 28,1983:
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Implementation of the project has started according to schedule.
The new curricula are being implemented in one-third of the grade one
classes. Training, curriculum development, pedigogical supervision and
development of educational materials programs are carried out satisfactorily;
the school map is 80% complete.  One third of the technical assistance has
already been committed, the rest is being actively recruited.
t        Credit 1338    Urban Development Project; US$8.0 Million Credit and
and Special    US$13.0 Million IDA Special Fund Credit of March 31,
Fund Credit    1983; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1983; Closing
SF01           Date:  December 31, 1987.
This project is not yet effective.



- 34 -                     ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DAITI
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:         24 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:    ODN/FAO/CP
(c)  First presentation to IDA:                 July 1979
(d)  First mission to review project:           September 1979
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:            September 1982
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                June 3, 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             November 15, 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances regarding the following matters
have been received
1.   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) Transfer of ODN's first project credit portfolio to BCA
(para. 50);
(b) Execution of working agreements between the agencies
participating in the project (para. 62);
(c) Employment of a financial adviser for ODN (para. 62);
(d) Establishment of a Special Account (para. 63).
2.   Conditions of Disbursement:
(a) Civil works investments for the St. Raphael irrigation
system would only begin after presentation to and
review by IDA of a report on organization and
management of water distribution (para. 46);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Civil works investments for the Grison Garde irrigation
system would only begin after joint review of the
consultant's design proposals by ODN and IDA, and the
availability of sufficient water has been confirmed
(para. 47);
3.   Other Conditions:
(a)  Introduction of water charges and improvement of water
charges system (para. 47);
(b)  Budgetary arrangements for operation and maintenance of
roads and irrigation and water supply systems (paras.
47, 51 and 52);
(c) Annual review of institutional performance of BCA and
adequacy of onlending rates (para. 50);
(d) Commitment of Government to cost-effective road design
(para. 51);
(e)  Arrangements for special review of working relationship
between ODN and DARDNR (para. 62);



.!



IB RD-16788
C)                                                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19-50D
%<;,rr7''-'K                                                                                                                 HAI;TI                                                                       >7 'tl,!' E,!55\
SECOND RU=RAL: DE'VEOPMENT PROJECT IN: TH T'  NQRTH
rg.t                                                                                                                                                                            Mnwf , g+;,;  '>3>
Dw4D                                                                                                                        F00,.         M.illa-                  Z
v}%                      \} A  iti''1  M1                              95ve <                                                         %N                            /                               \             N
fPluisance / 0 t > X\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sainte Suzanne  r                                                          0Saaanne Fam7ine   Grand Eassin    
<>   (t~~~~~~~~\                                         g ~~~~ du Nr,rd  Al,Roche Plate                                              /            A/NORD -EST                1,;   Chat              SaOmnh
t                                  |                                   \ bJ FIRT PHASE RIVER
Do N                  0,           A         x ORq \   PARTIALLY IRDD AREA                                                S
D-d-  N   R          D                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Perches,~ 
ASanrSed,
P93                                                                                                                                                 PRJC                                             EXSTNG                    1930 \  15' AOac
L   Erinany                                                                                                                PH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FRT1ASE  R11
b Bah-                             lErON11 ~~~~~~PHASEDEATNTBUAR
AIE     FINTENSIVE AGRICULTURAL                             OUDAL'ES
A   R   T    9   0    N  T                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D EVESLOPMENT               ITRAINLBU                  H
SqIt        Sac de 'nTa-t Raphael                                                             IRRIGATION AREAS:
F F TRURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEODRURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
19N20 G                                                                                                 ~~~Xx / ..                               _ 9/ ......... \  \19-20' .. ,  ,  ,~ ...........................1 0RanaaiPi  IRRIATED AREAS 
-tM,,hqI on L'Ataloya,CtR
I                 PathenPai~~~~~~~~~~~ c  Ca                     /V  > ~~~~~~~~BAHAMAS  AdtnolL~
19'20' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2191205
C            S            10            15 KILOMETER5                                            Pnon \    o                            dCO
_             _     _    _    _                                                                                                                    H AITI                           B l   f   <        Vsb tenenl1<    trrW t  R ai   hb    a  t//9 i l46X T 
JAMAICA                                  EET
72r20                                           7210sb                                                                                             a 5b  p e r in,  Co,,hdo  Son,            RICO



