i0'N TSCREDIT NUMBER 1410 HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1410 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                     , 1983,
between the REPUBLIC OF     TI (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 4,700,000) to assist in financing Parts B, C, G, H and I of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower
and the Fund;
(C) the Fund intends to appoint the Association as Coopera-
ting Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Association
is prepared to accept such appointment;
(D) the Borrower intends to receive from the French
Republic, acting through its Fonds d'Aide et de Coop&ration
(hereinafter called the FAC) grants (hereinafter called the FAC
Grants) in an aggregate amount of $1,200,000 equivalent to assist
in financing part of the Project;
(E) the Borrower intends to receive from the Federal
Republic of Germany, acting through its Deutsche Gesellschaft fur
Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH (hereinafter called GTZ) grants
(hereinafter called the GTZ Grants) in an aggregate amount of
$2,200,000 equivalent to assist in financing part of the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02; Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(b) "Special Account" means the account to be opened pur-
suant to Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(c) "ODN" means Organisme de Developpement du Nord, an
agency for the development of the Borrower's northern region, an
autonomous public agency of the Borrower established and organ-
ized pursuant to the Borrower's Decree dated December 1, 1976,
published in Le Moniteur December 6, 1976;
(d) "Project Area" means the Northern and Northeastern
Departments of the Borrower;
(e) "BCA" means Bureau de Credit Agricole, a public agri-
cultural credit agency of the Borrower established and organized
pursuant to the Borrower's Law, dated September 17, 1963, pub-
lished in Le Moniteur November 18, 1963;
(f) "TPTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works,
Transport and Communications;
(g) "BRH" means Banque de la Republique d'Haiti, the cen-
tral bank of the Borrower;
(h)  "DARNDR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development;


﻿- 3 -
(i)  "SNEP" means Service National d'Eau Potable, the Bor-
rower's national water supply service;
(j) "SAC" means sociftE agricole de cr6dit, groups of small
farmers organized with the assistance of BCA;
(k) "Gourde" and "G" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(1) "Working Agreements" means the agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and ODN pursuant to Section 4.01 (b) of
this Agreement, and between ODN and BCA, TPTC, SNEP and DARNDR,
respectively, pursuant to Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement; and
(m)  "Rural Development Fund" means the Fund to be estab-
lished under Part H of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to seventeen million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
III of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be opened and
thereafter maintained a Special Account in dollars in BRH on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Withdrawals
from the Special Account shall be made in Gourdes exclusively to
pay the reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry
out the Project and to be financed by the Association under this
Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 and
Schedule I hereto. BRH shall determine the amount in Gourdes of
the respective withdrawal on the basis of the exchange between
the dollar and the Gourde in effect at the time of the
corresponding withdrawal.
(b) The Association may, after the Effective Date and at
the request of the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower
from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account the


﻿-4-
proceeds of the Credit then allocated to Category (11) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(such deposit and table hereinafter called the Initial Deposit
and the Table, respectively). At the request of the Borrower, the
Association shall further withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account in accordance with paragraph (c)
of this Section such amounts as shall be required to replenish
the Special Account with amounts equal to the withdrawals made by
the Borrower from the Special Account for expenditures for the
Project eligible for financing under this Agreement. Except as
the Association shall otherwise determine, each withdrawal from
the Credit Account to make deposits in the Special Account other
than the Initial Deposit shall be made by the Association under
the same Categories set forth in the Table, and in the same
resp.-ctive amounts, as have been justified by the documentation
for the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph
(c) of this Section.
(c) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Asociation into the Special Account other than the Initial
Deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect
of each payment out of the Special Account such documents and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request show-
ing that such payment was made on account of the reasonable cost
of goods or services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with Section 2.02
of this Agreement.
(d) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from
the Credit Account or (ii) was not justified by the documents and
other evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Sec-
tion, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Associa-
tion and prior to any further deposit in the Special Account by
the Association, deposit in the Special Account or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so request, refund to the Association an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
by the Association (i) when the Association shall have deter-
mined, after consultation with the Borrower, that all further
withdrawals from the Credit Account may be made directly by the


﻿-5-
Borrower from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 2.02 of this
Agreement or (ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
less the amount of all qualified agreements to reimburse already
entered into by the Association and of all special commitments
already entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions, shall be equal to the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Initial Deposit, whichever shall be
sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
amount of the Credit for the Project shall follow such procedures
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association and
shall be made only to the extent that the Association shall be
satisfied by the evidence submitted in support of the applica-
tions for such withdrawal that all withdrawals by the Borrower
from the Special Account were made on account of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with
Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
(f) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for expenditures under the
Project eligible for financing under the Credit, the Borrower
shall promptly upon notice from the Association and unless other-
wise agreed by the Associaiton, refund to the Association such
outstanding amount.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the respec-
tivc dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
fon the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the   Association  shall reasonably   request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1993, and ending June 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of Ameri a
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in this Agreement and the Fund Loan Agree-
ment, the amount of the Credit and the amount of the Fund Loan
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Fund Loan
Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such allocation may be modified from time to time pursuant to the
provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement between the
Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account
for expenditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall


﻿-7,-
deliver to the Association a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Association or
the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided, shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before
or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satis-
fy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from
the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the funds
to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned
by the Association, as nearly as practicable in the circum-
stances, between the Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio of
30:70, or such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Asso-
ciation and the Fund; provided, however, that, if such applica-
tion shall be made in respect of expenditures that shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan only,
such application shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw
funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account to or
on the order of the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement; and/or
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received an
application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan


﻿- 8 -
Account in the aggregate amount specified in such
notice, that it has approved payment of the
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice,
and that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund
Loan Account in the amount set forth in such
notice is eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applica-
tions by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be deemed to
be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied for from
the Fund Loan Account or the Credit Account only, and the
provisions of this Article III, except for Section 3.04 hereof,
shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been
withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the
Fund, enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect
of the cost of goods required by the Project, subject to the
provisions of this Agreement concerning the allocation and
apportionment of the proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has
advised the Association that any such special commitment shall,
once it has been notified to the Fund, constitute an obligation
on the part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent
suspension or cancellation of the Fund Loan, the amount to be
disbursed out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan in fulfillment of
such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procuremenz of the goods and civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be governed by the pro-
visions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through OPN, with the participation of TPTC, SNEP, BCA and


﻿-9-
DARNDR, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate    administrative,   agricultural,    financial    and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into a working agreement with
ODN, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
such agreement to provide for the definition of the responsibili-
ties of ODN in the carrying out of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause ODN to enter into working
agreements with TPTC, SNEP, BCA and DARNDR, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, each such agreement
to provide for the definition of the responsibilities of ODN and
of TPTC, SNEP, BCA and DARNDR, respectively, in the carrying out
of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall make available to BCA as a grant the
part of the proceeds of the Credit required for the carrying out
of Part C of the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
(b) Without limitation to paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall cause ODN to employ, until the completion of
the Project, a financial specialist, whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 10 -
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and
the Fund's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under this Agreement and the accomplishmment of the purposes of
the Credit and the Fund Loan.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) in carrying out Part C of the Project, cause BCA to
follow the policies and procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement;
(b) (i) review once a year, with the Association, the
adequacy of the interest rates referred to in paragraph C.1 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, taking into consideration among
other things the inflation rate, market conditions and operating
costs; and (ii) if necessary, pursuant to the conclusions of such
review, cause BCA to revise such interest rates in a manner
satisfactory to the Association; and
(c) starting not later than December 31, 1984, and once a
year thereafte., review, with the Association, the carrying out
of Part C of the Project, including the performance of BCA under
such Part of the Project, the annual financial projections of BCA
and the actions to be taken to strengthen, if necessary, the
capabilities of BCA in the carrying out of Part C of the Project.
Section 4.07. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the design standards for the construction and rehabilitation of
the roads under Part D of the Project shall be as set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its approval, as soon as available, the training programs and
candidates proposed for the training abroad included in Part G.1
of the Project.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause ODN to carry out Part
H of the Project in accordance with operating policies and proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association, including that no grant in
excess of $20,000 equivalent shall be made without the prior
approval of the Association and the Fund.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association in May of each year, starting in May of 1984, on the
proposed budget allocations for the Project and prior to
September of each year, starting prior to September 1984, on the
adequacy thereof.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year
after the Closing Date, all.records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account or the Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's and the Fund's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the Special Account and
the accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Sec-
tion for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association
and the Fund, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section'as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account and the proceeds of the Fund Loan withdrawn from the Fund
Loan Account, on the basis of statements of expenditure have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)


﻿- 13 -
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
Special Account and separate accounts, records ind expenditures
and the audit thereof as the Association shall f::om time to time
reasonably request.
(d) The Borrower shall cause ODN to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Fund as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of ODN and the audit thereof as the Associa-
tion shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause ODN:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice;
(b)  to carry on its operations and to conduct its affairs
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, agricultural
and engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c) without limitation to paragraph (b) of this Section,
employ until the completion of the Project a Director General and
an Administrative and Financial Manager, whose qualifications and
experience shall, at all times, be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. The Borrower shall consult with the Association prior to
the appointment of any new person for such positions.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall, not later than six months
after the Credit is declared effective, and once a year there-
after, furnish to the Bank a report on the compliance by ODN and
DARNDR of their respective obligations under the Working Agree-
ment to be entered into between ODN and DARNDR, pursuant to
Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement.


﻿-14 -
Section 5.04. Without in any way limiting its obligations
under Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall make
such allocations in its annual budget as shall be necessary for
the adequate maintenance of:
(a) all water supply systems located in the Project Area,
including the lzrigation systems to be rehabilitated under Parts
A.1 and A.2 of the Project; and
(b) all roads located in the Project Area.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than January 1, 1984, start the collection of
reasonable water charges from the users of the irrigation systems
referred to in Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project;
(b) not later than December 31, 1984, prepare and furnish
to the Association, for comments, a study of an adequate system
of irrigation water charges for the Project Area, such study to
be carried out under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association; and
(c) based on the recommendations of the study referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section and the comments of the Associa-
tion thereon, put into effect, in consultation with the Associa-
tion, not later than December 31, 1985, a system of irrigation
water charges in the Project Area.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1985, establish and thereafter maintain a mechanism, satisfactory
to the Association, for the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation systems located in the Project Area.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General   Conditions,  the   following   additional   events  are
specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or transformation of
ODN or for the suspension of its operations, unless the Borrower


﻿- 15 -
shall have taken, to the satisfaction of the Association, such
steps as shall be necessary to ensure the due carrying out of all
obligations under this Agreement; and
(b) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan (including the
Fund Loan) made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligat-
ions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, any event specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 16 -
(a) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of
the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action and all other conditions prece-
dent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan pursuant to the Fund
Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been duly fulfilled; and the Fund has appointed the Asso-
ciation as Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
(b) the Association has been notified by the FAC and the
GTZ that all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of
the FAC Grants and the GTZ Grants, respectively (other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement), have been fulfilled;
(c) the Special Account has been opened;
(d) the financial specialist referred to in Section 4.02
(b) of this Agreement has been employed;
(e) the Working Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and ODN pursuant to Section 4.01 (b) of this Agree-.
ment;
(f) the Working Agreements have been executed on behalf of
ODN and BCA, TPTC, SNEP and DARNDR, respectively, pursuant to
Section 4.01 (c) of this Agreement; and
(g) the Association has received evidence, satisfactory to
the Association, that ODN has transferred to BCA the totality of
its existing portfolio.
Section 7.02. The date Decs (,6,     A     e3   , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
V of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 7.04. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement shall
have failed to come into force and effect by the date specified
in Section 7.02 of this Agreement or a later date established by
the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General


﻿- 17 -
Conditions or (ii) the entire principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which shall
have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the Fund
Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding the
provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions,
this Agreement shall be deemed to be, or to remain, in force and
effect but only to the extent required for the purpose of imple-
menting the Fund Loan Agreement and of orderly settlement of
matters of mutual interest to the parties thereunder, subject to
such modifications of this Agreement as shall be agreed between
the Borrower, the Association and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before this Agreement shall have
terminated or (ii) the Association shall notify the Borrower that
its appointment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan
Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this Agreement shall,
to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan, forthwith
terminate; provided, however, that in the case described in the
foregoing clause (ii) such termination shall apply only to the
responsibilities of the Association as such Cooperating Institu-
tion.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretaire d'Etat des Finances et des
Affaires Economiques of the Borrower is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretairerie d'Etat des
Finances et des Affaires Economiques
Palais des Ministeres
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Telex:
3490083


﻿- 18 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Be
By      /Director
Country Programs I Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
Region


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the. amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the    Amount of the
Credit Allocated    Fund Loan          % of
(Expressed        Allocated       Expenditures
in SDR        (Expressed in        to be
Category      Equivalent)     SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(1) Civil
works:
(a) for      6,970,000                        100%
Parts
A, D and
E of
the
Project
(b) for         50,000           110,000      100%
Parts
B, C and
G of
the
Project
(2) Vehicles
and equip-
ment:
(a) for      1,670,000                        100%
Parts
A, D and
E of
the
Project


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the    Amount of the
Credit Allocated   Fund Loan          % of
(Expressed       Allocated       Expenditures
in SDR        (Expressed in       to be
Category      Equivalent)    SDR Equivalent)   Financed
(b) for         170,000       410,000        100%
Parts
B, C, G
and H
of the
Project
(3) Consultants'
services:
(a) for       2,230,000                     100%
Parts
A, D and
E of
the
Project
(b) for         160,000       590,000       100%
]?arts
B.2, G and
I of
the
Project
(4) Local            690,000       730,000       60%*
salaries
for Parts
B, C, G
and H of
the Project
(5) Adminis-
tration
and vehicle
operation:
(a) for       1,060,000                     100%
Parts
A.1, E and
F of
the
Project


﻿- 21 -
Amount of the    Amount of the
Credit Allocated    Fund Loan          % of
(Expressed        Allocated       Expenditures
in SDR        (Expressed in        to be
Category      Equivalent)     SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(b) for        530,000         1,300,000      100%
Parts
B, C and
G of
the
Project
(6) Agricul-         90,000           240,000      100%
tural
credit
under Part
C of the
Project
(7) Main-         1,110,000                        78%
tenance
of roads
under
Part D.2
of the
Project
(8) Main-           190,000                        54%
tenance
of water
works
under
Part E.3
of the
Project
(9) Rural           370,000           850,000      100%
Develop-
ment Fund


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the    Amount of the
Credit Allocated    Fund Loan          % of
(Expressed        Allocated       Expenditures
in SDR        (Expressed in        to be
Category      Equivalent)     SDR Equivalent)   Financed
(10) Civil works    280,000                       100%
and con-
sultants'
services
for Pro-
ject prep-
aration
works
(11) Special        370,000                      Amount due
Account                                     under Section
2.03 (b) of
this Agree-
ment**
(12) Unallocated  1,760,000         470,000
TOTAL     17,700,000        4,700,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the. disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policies of the Association and the Fund.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures:
*    The respective percentages are 50% Credit and 50% Fund Loan.
** The respeetivez pe*ewatages arQ- 7 5~ % CdA- '4  d 25~ 4&und La


﻿- 23 -
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement or the date of the
Fund Loan Agreement, whichever shall be the later, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $300,000 may be made in respect of Category (10) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1983;
(b) in respect of civil works for Part A.1 of the Project,
until the Borrower has furnished to the Association a report on
the technical and economic justification for such Part of the
Project, to the satisfaction of the Association, such report to
be based on the additional stream flow data available to the
Borrower and the time of its preparation; and
(c) in respect of civil works for Part A.2 of the Project,
until the Association has reviewed the carrying out of Part A.3
(i) of the Project after the second year of execution of the
Project and has found it satisfactory.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Association
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) corres-
pondingly reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to
meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or the Fund
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; provided, however, that no such reallocation of
proceeds of the Fund Loan shall be made to Categories 1 (a), 2
(a), 3 (a), (7), (8) and (10); and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Fund Loan and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy


﻿- 24 -
of the Association under this Agreement or of the Fund under the
Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan as, in. the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to increase the income of the
rural population of the Borrower through the increase of the
agricultural productivity in the Project Area, and, in general,
to improve the standard of living of the population in the
Project Area.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Irrigation
1.   Rehabilitation and, thereafter, operation and maintenance of
the Grison Garde irrigation system covering an area of about
200 hectares.
2.   Completion of the rehabilitation of the St. Raphadl irriga-
tion system covering an area of about 260 hectares.
3.   Operation and maintenance of the St. Raphael irrigation sys-
tem covering an area of (i) about 460 hectares in the first
two years of the execution of the Project, and (ii) about
260 hectares thereafter.
4.   On-farm development of the areas rehabilitated under this
Part of the Project.
Part B:   Agricultural Development
1.   Carrying out intensive crop production programs on about 920
hectares of irrigated land and about 8,000 hectares of
rainfed land in the Project Area, including agricultural
extension and soil conservation.
2.   Carrying out a research and development program including
technical assistance for the improvement of sugar cane
productivity, provision of equipment for a laboratory for
cane quality control and development of improved on-farm
irrigation practices.
3.   Carrying out a seed multiplication program including produc-
tion of fruit and timber tree seedlings and sugar cane cut-
tings.


﻿- 26 -
Part C:   Agricultural Credit
Frovision by BCA, as described in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment, of (i) short-term credit to finance the acquisition by
farmers of inputs and seasonal labor and (ii) medium-term credit
to finance- the acquisition by farmers of equipment, expenses
related to on-farm development and farm investments.
Part D:   Rural Roads
1.   Rehabilitation and improvement of about 116 kilometers of
rural roads.
2.   Maintenance of about 200 kilometers of rural roads.
Part E:   Supply of Drinking Water
1.   Construction of about 21 village drinking water supply
systems.
2.   Construction and rehabilitation of about 195 shallow wells.
3.   Improvement of the maintenance of the drinking water supply
systems.
Part F:   Institutional Development
Strengthening of the operational capabilities of ODN and of
other entities carrying out the Project, including monitoring and
evaluation of the Project.
Part G:   Training
1.   In-service training and training abroad for the staff of ODN
and of other entities carrying out the Project.
2.   Training of farmers and skilled labor (including plumbers,
masons, carpenters and topographers) at the training center
at Milot and elsewhere.
Part H:   Rural Development Fund
Provision of grants to rural communities to support commu-
nity development actions, out of a rural development fund to be
established by the Borrower.


﻿- 27 -
Part I:   Studies
Carrying out of: (i) a feasibility study for a dam for water
storage at St. Raphadl, including watershed protection; (ii) a
study of irrigation water charges for the Project Area; and (iii)
studies on the strengthening of the accounting capabilities of
the entities carrying out the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts D and F hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
4.   Contracts  for  the purchase   of vehicles, materials    and
equipment shall be grouped, to the extent practicable, to form
biding packages estimated to cost at least $100,000 equivalent.


﻿- 29 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Haiti may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Haiti
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Haiti equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 30 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and to be procured in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic
contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bid-
ding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for (i) civil works for Parts A and D of the
Project estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent but less
than $500,000 equivalent, and in the aggregate not to exceed


﻿- 31 -
$600,000 equivalent and (ii) the purchase of vehicles, materials
and equipment estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent but
less %-han $100,000 equivalent, and in the aggregate not to exceed
$200,000 equivalent, may be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding   advertised  locally   and  in   accordance  with   local
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for (i) civil works for Parts A and D of the
Project, estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent, or less, and in
the aggregate not to exceed $200,000 equivalent and (ii) the pur-
chase of vehicles, materials and equipment estimated to cost
$50,000 equivalent or less, and in the aggregate not to exceed
$600,000 equivalent, may be procured through negotiated purchases
from established and reliable suppliers, provided, however, that
quotations from at least three of such suppliers are obtained.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.


﻿- 32 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prompt-
ly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
Irrigation works on the St. Raphail and the Grison Garde
irrigation systems may be executed by use of force account.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 4
Lending and Operating Policies and
Procedures of BCA
BCA shall follow the policies and procedures set forth in
this Schedule in carrying out Part C of the Project.
A.   Purpose
BCA shall make (i) short-term credits for expenditures
related to seasonal inputs, fertilizer, pesticides and seasonal
labor and (ii) medium-term credits for equipment and on-farm
irrigation development, to individual farmers and SACs.
B.   Eligibity
In order to be eligible to receive a credit, a farmer shall
be (i) a member of a SAC or (ii) an individual farmer cultivating
up to about 10 ha in the i'rrigated areas and up to about 25 ha in
the rainfed areas. In both cases a farmer shall meet all criteria
established by BCA and ODN.
C.   Terms and Conditions
1.   BCA shall charge interest on its short-term and medium-term
credits at the rate of 12% per annum and shall charge a
commission at the rate of 2% of the amount of the credit.
2.   In making medium-term credits, BCA shall take into account
the farm plans, the financing requirement of farmers, the
repayment   capacity   of   farmers   and   the   technical
recommendations of the extension staff.
3.   SACs shall not be required to contribute to the project
costs, but under the present statutes governing SACs, 5% of
the amount lent to them will be withheld by BCA as a
guarantee deposit on which an interest rate equivalent to
the onlending rate shall be paid.
4.   For medium-term credits to individual farmers, the benefi-
ciary shall be required to provide at least 10% of the total
cost of the inputs financed under the credit.
5.   Short-term credits shall be repaid over periods of up to one
year.


﻿-34-
6.   Medium-term credits shall be repaid in equal installments
over periods of up to five years, including two years of
grace, the exact period being determined in each case on the
basis of financial cash flow.
7.   SACs shall guarantee collectively the repayment of credit
granted to their individual members.


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 5
Design Standards for the Roads under the Project
Terrain Type         Standard
Surface                                          Granular
Dez:.gn Speed (k/h)           Flat                   40
Rolling               30
Minimum Radius (m)            Flat                  45
Rolling               30
Maximum Gradient (m)          Flat                    8
Rolling               10
Right of Way (m)                 -                  15
Minimum Platform (m)             -                    6.0
Width of Roadway (m)             -                    5.0
Minimum Ditch Width (m)          -                   0.5
Design Live Road                 -                 H 15-44*
*    American  Association   of  the   State  Highway  Officials'
standard.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


