RETURN TO                                             RESTRICTED
REPORTS D¢.è                FILE  COPY                     Report No. PA-109a
WITHIN                           CP
ONE WEEK-
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specificaDy authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, qwted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibilty for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
KOREA
December 21, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Except where otherwise stated all figures are quoted in U.S. dollars
(US$). The Project cost estimate is shown in both US$ and Korean (W) of 1971.
US$1                 370 Won
1 Won          =    US$0.00270
Won Million    -    US$2,700
Weights and Measures
1 kilometer (km)          -    0.62 miles
1 millimeter (mm)              0.039 inch
1 meter (m)               -    3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)         2       10,000 square meters - 2.47 acres
1 square kilometsr (km ) =    100 ha - 0.386 sq miles
1 cubic meter (m )        -    1.31 cubic yards
1 million cubic meters
(Mm3)                        810 acre feet
1 metric ton (ton)        -    2,205 lb
1 kilogram (kg)           =    2.2 lb
1 ton rice (Paddy)        =    650 kg rice (white)
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
LIA  -    Land Improvement Association
MAF  -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
NACF -    National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
ORD  -    Office of Rural Development
SPAD -    Special Projects Administration Department
ULIA -    Union of Land Improvement Associations
ADC  -    Agricultural Development Corporation
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



KOREA
AN APPRAISAL OF THE
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  ..................................                                i-ii
1.     INTRODUCTION  .............................................                                      1
II.      BACKGROUND  ...............................................                                     2
III.      THE  PROJECT  AREA  .........................................                                    3
General  .............................................                                  3
Climate .......................................                                         3
Soils,  Topography  and  Drainage  ......................                               4
Farm  Size  and  Land  Tenure  ...........................                              4
Agriculture ......................................... S
Transportation ......................................                                    5
IV.      THE  PROJECT  ..............................................                                    6
Description  .........................................                                  6
Project  Works  .......................................                                 7
Water  Supply,  Demand,  Quality  and  Rights  ....                      ........       8
Engineering  Design  ..................................                                10
Cost  Estimates  ......................................                                10
Financing  ...........................................                                 11
Procurement  .........................................                                 12
Disbursement  ........................................                                 12
Project  Accounts  and  Audit  ..........................                              13
Project  in  Relation  to  Ecological  Conditions  ....                      ....      13
V.     ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT  ..............................                                  13
Implementation  of  Project  Works  .....................                              13
Project  Coordinating  Committee  ......................                               15
Project  Charges  .....................................                                15
Operation  and Maintenance  ...........................                                16
Supporting  Agricultural  Services  ....................                               17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which consisted
of Messrs. A. Colan, H.T. Chang, B. Kanchanalak, W.A. Lucas (Bank/IDA), and
S. Okabe (Consultant).



-2-
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME .....    19
Production   ..........................................     19
Market Prospects ....................................    20
Prices ....                                                 20
Farmers'   Income   .....................................   21
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...............................   22
Economic Analysis ...................................    22
Income Distribution .................................    23
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................    24
ANNEXES
1.   Soils
2.   Description of the Project
3.   Construction Schedule
4.   Water Supply, Demand, Quality and Rights
5.   Cost Estimates
6.   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
7.   Organization
8.   Consultant Services
9.   Coordination of Various Agricultural Services
10.   Supporting Agricultural Services
11.   Marketing
12.   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns
13.   Farm Budgets
14.   Economic Rate of Return
MAP



KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT  -  STAGE I
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for irrigation development in the
Yong San Gang Basin, for which Bank/IDA assistance of US$48 million is pro-
posed. The project is part of the All Weather Farming Program initiated
within the framework of the Second Five-Year Economic Development Plan,
1967-71. The long-term goal of this program is to provide irrigation to
more than 500,000 ha of paddy fields and upland areas, as a major effort
to increase the production of food. In 1969 the Bank extended a US$45 million
loan (600-KO) to assist the Government in implementing the Pyongtaek-Kumgang
Irrigation Project which is an important part of the program. This project
is making satisfactory progress at present following an initial delay of one
year due to a reorganization of the Government agency charged with implement-
ation of the project.
ii.       The rapid growth of the industrial sector in Korea during the
past several years has been accompanied by a much lower rate of increase in
agricultural production. This has been due, in part, to the limited area
of arable land in the country and the population drain from rural to urban
areas. There was also insufficient support on the part of the Government
for agricultural programs. These factors, combined with increased consump-
tion by the urban population, brought about a significant increase in the
food deficit, especially in foodgrains and made it necessary to import large
quantities of food with scarce foreign exchange. Severe drought in 1967/68
once again confirmed the need for irrigation development, specifically in
the southwest provinces, to maintain adequate levels of production. The
Third Five-Year Economic Development plan (1972-76) provides increased
resources for agricultural and irrigation development.
iii.      The proposed Yong San Gang Irrigation Project has been planned
to provide irrigation to 33,000 ha in an area that has one of the highest
potentials for production in the country. A supplemental irrigation supply
would be provided for 12,500 ha, which are partially irrigated at present, and
a full supply to 20,500 ha, which are now farmed under rainfed conditions.
The climate, soil, available water resources and the level of competence of
the farmers are all favorable to increasing production. The project would
consist of dams and reservoirs, irrigation and drainage systems, land
consolidation and on-farm development, and roads in each of four subprojects
located in the upper central part of the Yong San Gang Basin in Jeonla Nam
Do, one of the southwest provinces. The project would also include supporting
agricultural services for extension, research and agricultural inputs and
training of Government staff.
iv.       Estimated total project cost is US$85.2 million, with an estimated
foreign exchange component of US$44.6 million, or 52% of the total. Bank/IDA
financing of US$48.0 million would consist of a US$33 million Bank loan,
which includes US$3.4 million for interest during construction on the loan,



- ii -
and a US$15 million IDA credit. Project works would be constructed by
contract following international competitive bidding, and local contractors
are expected to be successful bidders on most of the work. The foreign
exchange component for civil works would be about US$30 million. It is
estimated that about US$13.0 million in foreign exchange would be required
for direct purchase of equipment, materials and supplies and for foreign
consultants. With the exception of consultants, all these items would
be procured through international competition.  Should local manufacturers
be the successful bidders on all supply contracts, up to US$2 million of
local currency financing might be involved.
v.        Overall responsibility for implementing the project would rest
with the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), which presently performs
rural development work of this nature in the country. Following completion
of the project, the ADC would operate and maintain the dams and main
irrigation and drainage systems while the Land Improvement Associations (LIA's),
who presently manage the small partially irrigated areas, would retain
responsibility to manage and maintain the systems at the farm level. These
LIA's would be expanded or increased in number to correspond to the overall
project area. A coordinating committee, with representatives from relevant
Government Ministries or Agencies, would exercise overall supervision of
the project.
vi.       At full agricultural development in 1982, the net value of
production is expected to be around US$20.3 million compared with a level
of US$3.8 million, which can be expected without the project. Most of the
increase would be from higher yields, more double cropping and the introduc-
tion of high value crops, all made possible by irrigation. It has been
estimated that an increase of 35% in labor inputs over the current level
would be required to obtain this increase in production. Because of the
labor shortage in the area, this increase would be met by increased farm
mechanization. The economic rate of return of the project would be about
13% and the net present worth of foreign exchange benefits, using a 12%
discount rate, would be US$44.8 million. A sensitivity analysis indicates
that under a number of adverse conditions this rate would not be less than
10%. The project would benefit some 45,000 farm families and it is
estimated that their per capita income would increase from US$85 at present
to US$180 by 1982. Such an increase would prevent a further widening in
the income gap between the beneficiaries and the rest of the economy
although it would still leave them below the national average, which is
US$235 at present and estimated to exceed US$400 by 1982.
vii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$33 million for a
period of 30 years, including a six-year grace period, and an IDA credit of
US$15 million. The Bank loan would be made to ADC, with the Government of
the Republic of Korea as guarantor, and the IDA credit to the Government.



KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested Bank/IDA
assistance in financing construction of Stage I of the Yong San Gang
Irrigation Project in the north central part of Jeonla Nam Do Province.
This would be the second Bank loan to Korea for irrigation development,
the first one being a US$45 million loan (600-KO) signed in May 1969 to
assist in financing the Pyongtaek-Kumgang Irrigation Project. Commence-
ment of work under this loan was delayed by one year due to a major re-
organization whereby the agency responsible for the project, the union of
Land Improvement Association (ULIA) was consolidated into the newly created
Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), the agency presently responsible
for the project. Performance has since im-proved and the present rate of
progress is satisfactory. In the agricultural sector Korea obtained an IDA
credit in 1971 (234-KO) of US$7 million for livestock development and a
project is currently being prepared for a loan from the Bank for an agricul-
tural credit program to assist small farmers in modernizing their operations.
1.02      The proposed project is part of a master plan for eventual irri-
gation of about 100,000 ha in the Yong San Gang Basin and on tidal lands
along the west and south coast of the province.  It would consist of dams
and reservoirs, irrigation and drainage systems, land consolidation and
on-farm development, and roads to serve an overall area of about 33,000 ha.
It would provide supplementary irrigation to 12,500 ha, which now receive
only partial irrigation, and a full supply to 20,500 ha, which are currently
farmed under rainfed conditions. The project would also include supporting
agricultural services for extension, research, agricultural inputs, storage,
marketing, credit and training.
1.03      Due to a series of severe droughts in the south-western part of
Korea, the Government began giving serious attention about five years ago
to irrigation development in that region. Surveys, studies and planning in
the Yong San Gang area were carried out by ULIA with help from the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program and in November 1969 a Bank mission visited Korea to
appraise the project. The mission found, however, that the project needed
additional studies on the hydrological aspects and further refinement of the
plan. Additional assistance was provided by an appraisal follow-up in February
1970 and again in January 1971. In the meantime, ADC contracted for the
services of Sanyu Consultants International, of Japan, and in May 1971 a basin
wide master plan and a feasibility study for a first stage project were com-
pleted. This forms the basis for the appraisal covered by this report.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of a mission that visited
Korea in May 1971, comprising of Messrs. A. Golan, H. T. Chang, B. Kanchanalak
and W. A. Lucas (Bank/IDA) and S. Okabe (consultant).



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
2~~~~~~~~~~~
2.01      With a total land area of 98,000 km  and a population of about   2
31.8 million in 1970, Korea has a fairly high density of 320 inhabitants/km
In the past decade, family planning has been emphasized and the population
growth rate has dropped to an average annual rate of 2.3% for the period
1965-70. Government expects a further reduction to 1.5% per annum by 1976.
During 1960-69, unemployment was reduced from 8% to 5%.
2.02      Korea's economy has shifted in the past 10 years from its pre-
dominantly agriculture base to one that is semi-industrial. During 1960-69
the agricultural sector's rate of growth increased only slightly under 4%
annually as compared with an overall economic growth rate of 11% per year
during the same period. As a result, agriculture's share in total GNP
declined from 39% in 1965 to 26% by 1970, while its share of laborers in the
total work force decreased to 49.5%. In the process, the gap between
urban and rural incomes widened and reliance on imported foodgrains increased.
Furthermore, the rapid industrial growth has led to a migration of labor from
the farms to the city, thereby bringing about acute labor shortages during
peak agricultural activities and a substantial rise in rural wages. In an
effort to narrow the income gap and reduce the foodgrain deficit, Government
adopted a high rice price policy, which was designed to meet these specific
objectives but carried a high budgetary cost (para 6.07).
2.03      Because of unsatisfactory development during the sixties, Govern-
ment has given high priority to improvement of agriculture, including an
expansion of output of major crops and promoting higher living standards in
rural areas, during the Third Plan period. The strategy adopted to achieve
this improvement and development is comprehensive in its coverage of the
forestry, fisheries, livestock and farming sectors. For the farming sector
it would consist of improved cultural practices; increased use of modern in-
puts, including fertilizers, lime, pesticides and machinery; better seeds and
improved varieties; land consolidation and on-farm development, especially an
increase in rearrangement of rice lands with irrigation and drainage in the
main river basins; improved infrastructure, mainly roads; improved control
and management of water resources; continued development of upland areas and
small warersheds; expanded credit to farmers to support on-farm development
as well as production; continuation of the price support policy on foodgrains
as an incentive to higher production; and strengthening the cooperative
program, particularly for improvement of storage and marketing facilities.
It is expected that the plan, during the five year period, would reduce the
food deficit in the country, improve the balance of payment situation and
reduce the income disparity between the urban and rural population. One
important element in the plan is to continue the 10-year integrated
development plan in the four major river basins, initiated during the
Second Five-Year Plan, which envisages extensive irrigation and drainage
facilities. The Yong San Gang project, the first stage for development of
this basin, would be a further advance of this plan and would make a
significant contribution to the overall agricultural development strategy.



-3 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project area is located in the Yong San Gang Basin in
Jeonla Nam Do Province in the extreme south-western part of the Repudlic of
Korea (see map). The Yong San River has a drainage area of 2,800 km , not
including the estuary at Mok Po, and flows generally north-east to south-west
for about 80 km.  There are three large tributaries -- the Hwang Yong on the
west and the Kwang Ju and Ji Seok Cheon on the east -- which empty into the
river in the project area. Project lands would be located in the valleys
along the Yong San River and its main tributaries in the upper and middle
part of the basin, below the mountains and upstream from the tidal estuary.
3.02      Project lands are divided into four independent subprojects
corresponding to the river or tributary from which they would derive their
irrigation supply (Annex 1). Each of these subprojects, in turn, is made
up of one or two irrigation zones (see map).
Climate
3.03      The southern location of the project area and the influence of the
ocean on two sides tend to moderate the extremes of climate found in other
parts of Korea. The length and severity of the winter season is reduced
and the summer growing season is extended, which improves conditions for
double cropping and permits a greater diversification to crops such as vege-
tables and fruits. The average annual rainfall is about 1,250 mm, about
85% occuring in the summer season (April to September). Temperatures range
from a maximum of 3100 during July-August to below freezing in the winter,
when snow to a depth of 30 cm has been recorded.
3.04      While the climate is generally favorable for agriculture, there is
a serious constraint in the recurring drought that may occur for periods of
two to three weeks during the rice growing season, June-September, and oc-
casionally in late May-early June during the nursery and transplanting
period. These yearly droughts also have a serious effect on upland crops,
particularly during the maturing period in August and September. In addition,
there is an occasional drought year, such as 1967/68, when the dry period is
prolonged for several months. Such conditions pose a severe risk to agricul-
ture, which irrigation would overcome.
3.05      Two additional constraints to agricultural production are the heavy
downpours in early spring, which may damage the winter barley crop, and
typhoons in August and September.  Flooding of lowlands in the project area,
which occurs during these periods, would be greatly alleviated by construct-
ion of the on-farm and main drainage systems.



- 4-
Soils, Topography and Drainage
3.06      Two distinct soil groups can be found in the project area (Annex 1).
The main group, accounting for about 73% of the net irrigable area of 33,000
ha, is the comparatively flat low-lying paddy land consisting of loam or silt
loam down to a depth of 1 m or more and with slopes of less than 10%. Soils
in the other group, which are found mainly in the surrounding upland, con-
sist of silt loam, silty clay loam or clay loam. They vary in depth between
0.7 and 1.0 m and have slopes up to 35%. Upland areas that are too steep
and above 60 m in elevation were excluded from the project. In both groups,
clay content tends to increase moderately with depth, but in neither case
can the soils be considered heavy. Internal drainage, however, is S10w
due to the fairly high silt content of almost all soils. It ranges from
good in the uplands to fair in the lowlands and there is no serious problem
of waterlogging because of a high groundwater table.
3.07      Like most other soils in the southern part of Korea that are de-
rived from granite rocks, all project soils are highly acidic. Field tests
show 85% to have a pH value below 6 and 65% below 5.5. Government has been
providing agricultural lime on a subsidized basis throughout the country
for a number of years and its use is already a common practice in the project
area. Because of an inadequate supply at present, however, the application
rates are low.
3.08      Natural surface drainage in the project area is good due to the
generally undulating character of the land and the well defined drainage
system. The main rivers, with numerous large and small tributaries, provide
adequate watercourses to remove surplus runoff. At present time both the
low land and upland soils support a relatively high production, mainly rice
and barley, and are capable of even higher production with full irrigation
and adequate inputs such as lime and fertilizers.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.09      About 45,000 families, averaging six members per family, for a total
farm population of 270,000, would participate in the project. Most farms
are small, the majority being in the 0.5 to 2.0 ha range. In addition, most
holdings are fragmented and the fields generally have an irregular shape.
A breakdown of farm holdings by size is presented below:
Farm Size         Farm Holdings    Farming Area
ha               No.     %         Ha.    _
Up to 0.3           9,000   20        1,300    4
0.3-0.5           8,500   19        3,000    9
0.5-1.0          14,000   31        8,600   26
1.0-2.0          10,300   23       12,200   37
2.0-3.0           2,300    5        4,600   14
3.0 and over          900    2        3,300   10
Total:       45,000  100        33,000  100



3.10      Implementation of the Land Reform Law began in 1958, and today
most farms in the country, as well as the project area, are owner-operated.
Land tenure is not a constraint to agri-ultural development.
Agriculture
3.11      The project area is characterized by a traditional rice-barley
monoculture. Together, these two crops account for over 85% of the cropped
area and total value of production. Over half of the rice area receives
partial irrigation either from small tanks or the main rivers, but the water
supply is unreliable and there are great variations in the cropped area from
year to year. Present rice yields 1/ of 2.8 ton/ha under partial irrigation
and 2.4 ton/ha under rainfed conditions are among the highest in developing
countries but still considerably below the potential.
3.12      Despite the acute labor shortage during peak periods, the decline
in farm laborers and the sharp increase in farm wages during recent years,
little has been done toward mechanizing farm activities which are still car-
ried out almost entirely by buffalo and hand. The main reason for this is
the absence of adequate farm roads and drainage facilities, which would permit
the drying out of fields in time for the winter crop cultivation, although
a shortage of power tillers in the country and inadequate institutional
credit resources have also played a role.
3.13      Agricultural credit and farm inputs are available through the semi-
autonomous National Agriculture Cooperative Federation (NACF) and its member
cooperatives, which operate crop and farm input storage facilities. Its
credit resources are inadequate, however, to meet all the farmers' demand,
and over half of the farm credit requirements are provided by private money
lenders at high interest rates. Extension services are provided by the
Office of Rural Development (ORD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF) and it also operates experimental stations and demonstration plots.
The Land Improvement Associations (LIA), which own, operate and maintain
the existing irrigation systems in the area, hire additional extension
workers to serve their members. Although the overall level of extension
service is satisfactory, little work is done at present on irrigated crops
other than rice.
Transportation
3.14      The project area has highway, railway and airline connections north
to Seoul, which provide a good outlet for agricultural products to the main
market and distribution center for the rest of the country. The railway is
serving as the primary carrier at present. Government plans to improve
the highway facilities in the next two years by constructing a paved road
from Pusan to Kwang Ju and thence north to Chonju, connecting with the
1/   All rice yields in this report are expressed as white rice.



existing paved highway to Seoul and also with the recently completed Seoul-
Pusan highway. This construction program would be partially financed under
a Bank loan (769-KO). With the completion of these roads in 1974 the project
area would be within easy reach of Seoul (346 kn) and Pusan (265 km), the
two largest cities in the country.
3.15      All of the cities and towns within the project area are intercon-
nected by good all-weather gravel-based highways. These provide access to
most of the area but there is a need to improve the secondary and farm service
roads which directly serve the farms as many of these are not suited to
motorized equipment, especially during the wet season.
IV. THE PROJECT
Descrition
4.01      The Yong San Gang Irrigation Project represents the first stage of
a basin development plan that envisages eventual development and reclamation
of 100,000 ha in Jeonla Nam Do Province. The plan was prepared through a
computerized systems analysis of individual sub-basins in the Yong San Gang
drainage basin and the tidal areas along the west and south coast of the
province. The Stage I project was then selected as the first step in
developing the basin on the basis of studies which proved that development
of the upper valley lands and adjacent uplands, with reservoirs in the
upper watershed, was more advantageous at this time than the more costly and
time consuming construction of seadikes and reclaiming of tidal lands
(Annex 2). The project would consist of four independent subprojects, each
with its own storage dam and irrigation and drainage network. The works to
be implemented under the project are summarized below and also described in
more detail in Annex 2. Project works in each of the four subprojects would
include:
(a) dam and reservoir for storage and regulation on the main
river;
(b) a main canal and lateral system to serve the irrigable
area;
(c) land consolidation and on-farm development (totalling
30,000 ha in all the subprojects);
(d) a main drainage system;
(e) relocation of existing roads in the reservoir area and
improvement of secondary and farm service roads in the
project area; and
(f) a primary lime application on all lands following on-farm
development.



-7-
In addition, the project would provide for the preparation of a feasibility
study for a second stage project in the basin. A firm of consultants would
assist ADC in carrying out this study as well as with final designs and
implementation of the project. The project would also include supporting
agricultural services for extension, research, provision of credit for seeds,
fertilizers, lime, machinery and other inputs; and in-service and overseas
training of ADC staff in the major disciplines relevant to implementation
and management of the project. Construction work on the project would begin
late in 1972 and be completed by the end of 1976. A proposed construction
schedule is presented in Annex 3.
Project Works
4.02      Dams.  Three of the dams are earth fill and one is rock fill.
Conditions for construction are good and no difficulties are expected in
carrying out this part of the project. Construction of the dams would
include spillways and outlet works, relocation of roads in the reservoir area
and the acquisition and clearing of land in the reservoir area.
4.03      Main Canal and Lateral System.  The four main canal systems, which
include secondary laterals, would receive their supply directly from the dams,
and delivery to the irrigated area would be by gravity. No pumps or diver-
sions in addition to those presently in operation would be required. Canals
and laterals would not require lining except in a few permeable sections.
A large number of tunnels, flumes, siphons and overflow structures would be
required due to the undulating topography and the intensive pattern of cross
'rainage.
4.04      Drainage System.  The main drainage system, together with the
tertiary drains, are for the primary purpose of removing excess surface
water. The systems would be designed and constructed for drainage of both
lowland and upland under conditions of maximum rainfall. In the case of rice
land, another important function would be to dry up the land following the
rice harvest in order to plant the winter crop as early as possible.
4.05      Land Consolidation and On-Farm Development.  To permit design of
an efficient system, farm holdings, which are presently fragmented and ir-
regular in size, would be consolidated and arranged into uniform tracts of
about 0.3 to 0.5 ha in size. The land consolidation would involve rearrange-
ment of holdings with only minor exchanges of land between owners. It
would be combined with leveling and bordering of the fields; construction of
tertiary irrigation and drainage canals, structures and service roads; and
lime application. This integrated procedure, which conforms to standards
developed over the years in Korea, produces a uniform rectangular layout
of the farms and the irrigation system, which is more efficient for both the
farming and irrigation operations. The full operation as described above
which has already been completed on 3,000 ha (Annex 2), would be applied to
about 18,500 ha of paddy land. A modified treatment, would be applied to
an additional 11,500 ha of upland. This would differ primarily in the
amount of leveling and the use of terraces. Irrigation, drainage and
improved roads would be provided to all land in the project. In Lhe upland



portions of the project area, on-farm development would include clearing
and terracing of about 2,200 ha of land presently in natural forest. With
over two-thirds of the farmers in the area already having agreed to participate
in the project, consolidation would be mandatory.
4.06      Roads.  Farm service roads to individual tracts would be constructed
as part of the on-farm development. The secondary system connecting the farm
roads to the main highways would be extended and improved as part of the main
canal and secondary lateral system. Altogether this would provide an ade-
quate system for the movement of agricultural production and services. The
standard layout for on-farm development specifies a 6-m wide roadway (5 m
gravel surfaced) along the lateral supply canals and a 4-m wide road (3 m
gravel surfaced) along one bank of tertiary canals. The 6-m width appears
suitable for the lateral roads since they would be the main outlet to the
highway for a large group of farms. The 4-m width for the tertiary roads,
however, appears excessive since they would normally serve less than 40 tracts,
or 16 ha, and need only to accommodate single lane traffic of small equipment
such as power tillers and carts. Specifications would be reviewed by ADC
and the consultants to determine if a narrower road would serve project needs
as well (para 4.15).
4.07      Lime Application.  A primary application of lime, following the land
leveling and construction of borders, would be included as part of the initial
project implementation to reduce the soil acidity and assist farmers in
reestablishing full production on the newly developed lands.
Water Supply, Demand, Quality and Rights
Rainfall. Rainfall in the project area is irregular and ill-timed
to support maximum production from agriculture. Drought periods ranging
from three weeks to two months occur during the early growing season in May-
June and the maturing period in August-September. Records for the past 53
years reveal that in 50 of those years there was at least one month during
the critical growth period for rice in which effective rainfall accounted
for less than half of the crop water requirement. Although somewhat less
severe in the case of upland crops, here too the deficiencies during the
same period were quite frequent with 33 years of shortage (equivalent to
three years out of five) in the case of winter upland and 39 years (equiva-
lent to seven years out of ten) for summer upland (Annex 4). Shortages of
this magnitude create serious risks to agriculture and are the major factor
in limiting yields and diversification to higher value crops. The main
justification for 'rrigation in the area is to provide water during these
frequent drought periods, such that greater production would be possible.
4.09      Water Supply.  The main water supply for the project would be ob-
tained through storage and regulation reservoirs on the main rivers in each
of the four subprojects. The available runoff in these rivers was estimated
on the basis of four years of rainfall and discharge records in each basin
and the reconstituted flow for the 30-year period, 1940-69, by correlation
witht existing records for this period at Kwang Ju for rainfall and the Yong
San Cang Piver for discharges  lhe average annual inflow into all the reser-
voirs is estimated as 200 Mm . An additional supply to the project,



- 9 -
specifically to the presently irrigated area, would be available from small
tanks or reservoirs within the project area and direct diversions or pumping
from the rivers. The latter supply would be obtained mostly from the unre-
gulated flow of tributaries entering the main rivers downstream from the
reservoir sites. However, some release from the reservoirs would be required
during the low flow period each year to supplement the supply to thise lands.
The annual average of this additional supply is estimated as 110 Mm .
4.10      Demand.  Total crop water requirements for the 33,000 ha in the
project were estimated on the basis of double cropping with rice and upland
crops and a cropping intensity of 182%. Average annual requirements would
vary from 7,000 m3/ha for two upland crops to 10,000 m3/ha for double cropping
with rice.  The totah average annual requi5ement for the project would be
approximately 300 Mm , which includes 4 Mm for municipal and industrial
supply for the main urban centers in the project area. Taking into account
effective rainfall and conve ance and farm efficiencies, the net diversion
demand would be about 260 Mm .
4.11      Reservoir operation studies for each of the four reservoirs pro-
posed for the project indicate that the project requirements would be met
in 26 years out of 30. In the case of the severe drought years deficits in
crop water requirements on the order of 15 to 20% and up to 30% would occur.
The magnitude of these deficits has been taken into consideration in projecting
average future yields on the project. The capacity of the reservoirs has
been established on tae basis of using about 80% of the inflow and utilizing
holdover storage within reasonable limits (three to four years) to cover the
deficit periods. The extreme variations of inflow from an average to a
drought year makes it uneconomic to construct dams and reservoirs large enough
to store 100% of inflow and to hold the surplus over for more than five years.
4.12      The reservoir operation studies indicated further that Dam Yang
Reservoir could not adequately supply all the irrigable area commanded in
this subproject, whereas Jang Seong has the capability, with an increased
reservoir capacity, to serve more than originally planned. It has been
proposed, therefore, that the two systems be linked together so that
integrated operation would be possible. This modification in the project
plan would provide an adequate water supply from the reservoirs and other
sources for the project area. The link canal would be 10 km long, including
a 5-km tunnel. The adjustments for optimum size of the two dams and
reservoirs would be made in the final design of these structures.
4.13      Quality.  The quality of water in the rivers that would supply
the project is excellent for agricultural purposes. Sample tests show that
salinity and sodium and boron content are within safe limits. Further de-
tails of present water supply, demand and quality are presented in Annex 4.
4.14      Water Rights.  The basic law controlling the use of water from
rivers and streams in Korea is known as the "River Law" (Law No. 892, 1961).
Under it, a right to use water for agricultural purposes may be acquired and
retained on the principle of beneficial use, with a priority on the basis of
first in use-first in right. This applies to all lands in a river basin
since the prior right of riparian lands is not recognized by Government.



-10-
All existing rights on project lands would, therefore, be sustained and
new lands would acquire the necessary right. Construction of the reservoirs
would not prejudice downstream rights outside the project area. Assurances
were obtained from Government that the water right of all lands under the
project would be legally recorded and the normal and regulated flow of the
rivers protected from future depletions that could adversely affect the
supply to the project.
Engineering Design
4.15      Preliminary designs and cost estimates based on field surveys
have been completed by ADC for the dams and irrigation and drainage systems.
Project works would be conventional and the data and criteria used for the
feasibility report would be adequate for final designs. Overall layout of
the project and the designation of irrigable areas have been completed on a
1:3,000-scale map with 1-meter contours, prepared from controlled aerial
photos. This map, also showing existing farm boundaries, roads, villages
and other features, is adequate for preparing the final plan. Planning and
estimates for land consolidation and on-farm development are based on
standard layouts for various types of treatment. Detailed field surveys
would be required to establish the new tract boundaries, elevations for
land leveling and alignment of canals and roads within the farming area.
During the final design phase, ADC, together with its consultants, would
review the criteria for farm service roads, the optimum height of Jang Seong
and Dam Yang dams and the design criteria for the link canal. Assurances
were obtained that ADC would carry out these reviews and submit its findings
to the Bank/IDA for comment within nine months after signing of the loan/credit
agreement.
4.16      ADC is responsible for obtaining rights of way.  In the past,
however, it has encountered some difficulties in acquiring land from farmers,
with consequent delays in construction. Therefore, to expedite such
procedures under the project, all such activities would be carried out by
the Provincial Government, with ADC paying all costs, plus a 5% commission
to the Provincial Government to cover administrative expenses. This
arrangement worked well on the Pyongtaek-Kumgang project and it should be
adequate for the present project.
Cost Estimates
4.17      Unit prices presented in the feasibility study were updated on the
basis of tendering results on the Pyongtaek-Kumgang Irrigation Project (Loan
600-KO) and more recent information available in Korea to bring them in line
with expected price levels at the end of 1971.
4.18      The project cost estimates of US$85.2 million include provision
for engineering, administration, consulting services, and the preparation of
feasibility studies for Stage II of the project. Since ADC is exempted from
paying import duties, the estimates are net of all such duties. About 25%
contingencies have been included in the estimates. They consist of technical
contingencies of 20% on the dams and link canal, 15% on the main canals and



- 11 -
10% on all other items; and a contingency for price increases based on a
cumulative 5% per-year for foreign expenditures and 6% per-year on local
currency expenditures. These technical contingencies reflect conditions in
the area and the advanced stage of investigations and design. The cost
estimates presented in the feasibility study are considered reliable. The
contingencies for price increases are based on experience in recent years on
cost increases for labor, materials and supplies in the country and for goods
imported, mainly from the USA and Japan.
4.19      A breakdown of project costs is presented in Annex 5 and summarized
in the table below.
(W Million)            (US$ Million)      Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange
Dams                       1,739   3,108   4,847   4.7    8.4    13.1          64
Main Canals and Laterals 2,442   3,774   6,216   6.6   10.2    16.8            61
Main Drainage Systems        666      592   1,258   1.8    1.6        3.4      47
Land Consolidation and
On-Farm Development    2,923   3,182   6,105   7.9    8.6    16.5            52
Lime Application             222    -          222   0.6      -       0.6       0
Acquisition of Right
of lJay                  2,257    -        2,257   6.1      -       6.1       0
Operation and Maintenance
during Construction         74       37      111   0.2    0.1       0.3      33
Administration and
Engineering              1,110      888   1,998   3.0    2.4        5.4      44
Consulting Services and
Overseas Training          111      592      703   0.3    1.6       1.9      84
Sub-total            11,544  12,173  23,717  31.2   32.9    64.1
Contingencies
Technical             1,332   1,702   3,034   3.6    4.6         8.2
Price                 2,146   2,627   4,773   5.8 /  7.1,   12.9
Total Project Cost        15,022  16,502  31,524  40.6   44.6    85.2          52
Financing
4.20      Bank/IDA financing would cover the estimated foreign exchange cost
of the project (US$44.6 million), which is about 52% of project cost. It
would consist of a US$15 million IDA credit and US$29.6 million Bank loan.
In addition, the loan component would include US$3.4 million for interest
during construction thus bringing the total Bank/IDA financing to US$48
million. The computation of foreign exchange costs assumes all civil works
to be carried out by local contractors as has been the experience to date
on Loan 600-KO. Except for cement, all equipment, materials and supplies
would be imported. To the extent that local suppliers would be the successful
bidders on these contracts up to US$2 million of local currency financing
might be involved.



12 -
4.21      The borrower of the Bank loan would be ADC.  It would also receive
from Government the proceeds of the IDA credit on the same terms as the Bank
loan. Local expenditures, representing the estimated balance of project
costs, would be met through Government budgetary allocations to ADC. A
breakdown of projected expenditures, including interest during construction,
and a quarterly disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 6.
Procurement
4.22      All civil works under the project would be carried out by contrac-
tors selected on the basis of international competitive bidding. ADC, with
the assistance of the consultants, would be responsible for these contracts.
The domestic civil engineering contracting industry has grown rapidly in
recent years and has demonstrated considerable capacity and competence to
perform major public works in Korea as well as overseas. Most local con-
tractors are well equipped and are expected to be the successful bidders
on all contracts under the project. Present planning calls for eight civil
works contracts to be awarded during 1972-73. To ensure that contracts would
be large enough to attract major local construction firms and international
contractors, assurances were obtained that civil works contracts would amount
to at least USS4.0 million.
4.23      Contracts for equipment, materials and supplies, with an estimated
cost of US$12.4 million (Annex 6), would also be tendered internationally.
Responsibility for these contracts would rest with the Office of Supply of
the Republic of Korea (OSROK) which is presently performing similar functions
satisfactorily under Loan 600-KO. ADC, with the assistance of the consultants,
would, however, retain responsibility for preparation and evaluation of the
technical aspects. Imported equipment, materials and supplies under the
project would be exempted from customs duties. A 15% preference margin, or
the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids.
4.24      Under existing regulations in Korea, foreign firms must be
registered in the country before they can participate in any local bidding
but because of the short period between advertising and opening bids, it is
usually impossible for firms not previously registered to comply with this
requirement. Assurances were obtained that non-Korean firms would not be
required to register in Korea as a condition of bidding and, where such
registration is required after award of contract, Government would take
any necessary action to facilitate its accomplishment.
Disbursement
4.25      Disbursements would be made against the CIF cost of imported equip-
ment, materials and supplies and foreign exchange payments for consulting
services. For equipment, materials and supplies to be awarded to local sup-
pliers, disbursements would be made against the ex-factory price. Disburse-
ments for civil works contracts would be made on a percentage basis repre-
senting the estimated foreign cost of the works against certificates of ex-
penditures or work completed certified by the consultants. Savings in any



- 13 -
category under the allocation of proceeds would be made available for over-
runs in any other category. Undisbursed funds would be cancelled.
Project Accounts and Audit
4.26      ADC would maintain a separate account for the project, following
current accounting procedures, which are satisfactory. At present, ADC is
not subject to an independent financial audit and assurances were obtained
that it would select an independent accounting firm, acceptable to the
Bank/IDA to audit project accounts annually and that a certified copy of
such auditing would be sent to the Bank/IDA within four months after the
close of each fiscal year.
Project in Relation to Ecological Conditions
4.27      With virtually all of the project area under cultivation at present
and one third already receiving irrigation, it is not expected that implement-
ation of the project would change the ecological conditions in the area. A
controlled balance between man and land exists at present even though the
population density is high and the land is used intensively. Land consolida-
tion and on-farm development throughout the project would improve soil and
water conservation practices. The reservoirs, which would be relatively
small, would be located in the foothills of the surrounding mountains, outside
the heavily inhabitated area, and would have no great effect on existing
natural conditions. Storage of runoff into these reservoirs would only
reduce the normal flow of the rivers by 10 to 15% during the flood season and
teservoir releases would help maintain the minimum flow during the dry
season.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementation of Project Works
5.01      ADC, a semi-autonomous public entity within the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Forestry (MAF), would have overall responsibility for the
project. Established in early 1970 following consolidation of the Union of
Land Improvement Associations and the Groundwater Development Corporation
under the Rural Development Promotion Law, ADC has broad responsibilities
for the development of land and water resources in rural areas throughout
Korea.  ADC is headed by a president, a vice president and a board of
directors consisting of four members. The president and vice president
are appointed for a four-year term by the President of the Republic of Korea,
while the directors and other senior staff are appointed by ADC's president.
The corporation is divided into seven departments (Administration, Survey
and Design, General Projects, Development Projects, Special Projects Admin-
istration, Farm Machinery and Technical Cooperation); a special unit has
been set up to look after the investigation and design of the Yong San Gang
project.



- 14 -
5.02      Responsibility for implementing the Pyongtaek-Kumgang project
(Loan 600-KO) rests with the Special Projects Administration Department
(SPAD), which was set up specifically for this purpose. The department is
under the direct supervision of one of ADC's directors. As originally con-
ceived, most of SPAD's activities on the project were to be carried out at
ADC's Seoul headquarters. It soon became apparent, however, that such an
arrangement was impractical and consequently most of SPAD's staff were as-
signed in late 1970 to two field offices in the project area. SPAD's
design staff would be reassigned to work on the Yong San Gang project when
it completes work on the Pyongtaek-Kumgang project, probably in early 1972.
5.03      Responsibility for day-to-day activities on the Yong San Gang
project would be delegated to a project field office to be set up in Kwang
Ju. The office would be headed by a senior department head of ADC, acting
as project manager, assisted by a deputy project manager, who would also
act as the project chief engineer, and four division heads in charge of
design, construction, agriculture and administration (Annex 7). Four branch
offices would be established at each of the major construction sites to
supervise work. The present project staff at Seoul would be moved to Kwang
Ju and additional staff transferred from other departments within ADC to
meet project requirements. About 250 staff would be required during the
peak year of 1975. A senior official of ADC at the director level, would
supervise all activities on the Yong San Gang project. He would be assisted
by a senior agriculturalist and would ensure overall coordination of both
Bank-assisted projects with the rest of ADC's activities. Assurances were
obtained that ADC would:
(a)  set up a project field office along the lines described
above;
(b)  appoint the necessary project staff at headquarters and
the field office to ensure completion Or wor' w-r '     ;''  and
(c)  consult with the Bank/IDA before making appointments to the
posts of director in charge of the project  and project
manager.
5.04      At present ADC has a staff of about 1,400, many of whom were with
the agency's predecessor. It has also gained some experience on the
Pyongtaek-Kumgang project in organizing and planning the construction of a
large-scale project. However, while ADC's staff is competent and highly
dedicated, it is not geared to administer two major projects simultaneously,
to prepare a feasibility study for a third one and to discharge its other
responsibilities throughout the country. To ensure rapid and sound implement-
ation of the project, it would therefore be necessary to engage a consulting
firm with broad experience in the planning, design and construction of large-
scale irrigation projects.
5.05      The consultants would prepare final designs and tender documents,
evaluate bids, supervise comstruction and certify payment to contractors.
While they would have final responsibility for these aspects, most of the



- 15 -
design and field work would be carried out by ADC staff.  A draft outline
of the consultants' terms of reference is presented in Annex 8. The con-
sultants would also prepare a feasibility study for a second stage project
in the basin and provide on-the-job training for local staff. They would
also assist ADC in planning and executing an overseas training program for
professional and administrative staff in the major disciplines related to
implementation and future management of the project. The employment of a
consulting firm under terms of reference approved by the Bank/IDA would be
a condition of loan effectiveness.
Project Coordinating Committee
5.06      Project farmers would receive the necessary supporting agricultural
services through the appropriate Government agencies (para 5.14). Most of
these services would have to be intensified during the construction period
and their success would depend largely on proper coordination of activities
between the various participating agencies. Responsibility for such coor-
dination and the preparation of an overall plan for supporting agricultural
services would rest with a coordinating committee to be established specifi-
cally for the Project. This committee would be chaired by the Provincial
Deputy Governor and include senior representatives from MAF, ADC, NACF and
ORD. Responsibility for coordinating the actual implementation of the
programs in the field would rest with ADC (Annex 9). Assurances were obtained
that a plan for supporting agricultural services would be prepared and, after
having been reviewed by the Bank/IDA, implemented within one year after
signing of the loan/credit agreements.
Project Charges
5.07      Under Government policy, Korean farmers belonging to water users
associations, locally known as Land Improvement Association (LIA) and
benefitting from irrigation development, are required to pay the cost of
operation and maintenance of the project and 40% of the capital costs, with
interest at 3.5%, normally over a period of 30 to 40 years. In accordance
with this policy, farmers participating in the project would have to pay
Government about US$1.8 million per year. This, together with an estimated
annual operation and maintenance cost of US$36 per ha, would amount to about
US$90 per ha per year. Discounted over the life of the project (50 years)
at an opportunity cost of capital in Korea of 12%, the present worth of
project capital, operation and maintenance costs, is US$64.0 million while
that of revenues from water charges is US$9.2 million. The present worth of
the Government subsidy to project beneficiaries is therefore US$54.8 million
over the life of the project; the revenues cover about 14% of the costs.
5.08      The proposed project cha -es would not apply uniformly to all lands
in the project. Areas with partial irrigation are already obligated to
r-npv certain capital costs for the works now in place. Further, the present
supply to such areas is obtained largely by pumping, which is an additional
cost. Since the project would provide only a supplemental water supply to
these lands, about 20 to 25% of the requirement, farmers should not be ex-
pected to repay the cost of common works at the same rate as farmers on the



- 16 -
newly irrigated lands, which would receive a full supply. The exact repay-
ment rate for these areas would be determined by ADC during the construction
period (para 5.09).
5.09      The policy, on the part of Government, to recover only 40% of
the investment from farmers, has the effect of not imposing an undue financial
burden on small farms and thus weaken the incentive to improve and intensify
agricultural practices. Total project charges, including operation and main-
tenance, would vary from 16% to 21% of the incremental farm income (para 6.10).
At the same time, however, the present policy fails to take into account the
income disparity between the large and small farmers and in the absence of
income taxes on agricultural income, it therefore tends to extenuate the
existing disparity. Thus if the Government contribution toward the cost of
the project is to be distributed among the beneficiaries in some relationship
to per capita income, the percentage of incremental income to be recovered
by Government on the larger holdings should be substantially greater than
on the smaller ones. The Government has agreed to cause ADC to study the
mechanism through which such a scheme could be introduced and also how to
compensate members of existing LIAs for payments assessed against irrigation
facilities already in operation in the area. In addition, assurances were
obtained that water charges would be imposed and collections made in the
project areas so as to recover the annual operation and maintenance costs
and the equivalent of 40% of the capital cost at 3.5% interest over a period
not to exceed 40 years.
Operation and Maintenance
5.10      Responsibility for operation, maintenance and recovery of investment
funds on existing irrigation projects in Korea rests with the LIA's. These
associations operate as independent units although their annual operating bud-
gets must be approved either by the Provincial Government or the MAF, depend-
ing on the size of the project. Most LIA's also engage extension workers
to assist their members. Five LIA's, covering the 12,500 ha of partially
irrigated land, are presently operating in the project area.
5.11      Government has not yet decided on a plan for operation and main-
tenance of the project or the role the LIA's would have in this activity.
It is generally agreed that responsibility for operation and maintenance of
the dams, main canal and main drainage systems, which could be carried out
more effectively by a centralized agency, should be delegated to ADC. The
existing LIA's, however, have been successful in managing the smaller
projects at the farm level, usually not more than 3,000 ha, and it would be
worthwhile to consider forming additional LIA's to manage the newly irrigated
land in the project. These LIA's would have responsibility to operate and
maintain the on-farm systems, schedule water deliveries, allocate and collect
project charges, provide extension service and enter into cooperative arrange-
ments with other agencies, such as UACF and ORD, for various kinds of
assistance to the farmers. There is considerable evidence that the LIA's work
better in areas of a limited size and, for this reason, one or two LIA's
covering the entire project would not be advisable. Assurances were obtained
thiat ADC would prepare a plan for operation and maintenance of project
facilities along the lines indicated above and present it to the Bank/IDA



- 17 -
for its review and comments within three years after signing of the
loan/credit agreements.
5.12      To ensure that actual or potential deficiencies in the structures
or the methods of operation would not endanger the safety or affect the
satisfactory functioning of the dams, assurances were obtained that ADC
would make arrangements to carry out periodic inspections at intervals not
exceeding five years and submit a report to the Bank/IDA at such time on the
condition of the structures and the measures taken to maintain and operate
them in a safe and satisfactory manner.
5.13      IJpon completion of the project, the estimated annual operation and
maintenance cost would be US$1.2 million, or about US$36 per ha. The estimates
are based on 26,500 ha of gravity irrigation and pumping for 6,500 ha. The
cost of operation and maintenance in the areas served by pumps, which is
based on actual figures, is about double the estimated cost for those lands
served by gravity. All costs are based on 1971 unit prices and include
operation and maintenance on dams, main canal systems, on-farm systems,
main drainage systems and roads. They also include staffing and support costs
of ADC's project office as well as for a full complement of water masters and
gate tenders to serve each of the subproject areas, but exclude the cost of
extension services.
Supporting Agricultural Services
o.14      The Office of Rural Development (ORD) is the main Government agency
iasponsible for agricultural extension, research and demonstration throughout
lKorea (Annex 10). Under the project, ORD would emphasize work related to
irrigation and drainage practices, use of farm machinery, cultivation of
vegetable and fruit crops and proper application of lime and agricultural
chemicals. ORD is well organized and the quality of its staff is high. To
meet project needs, however, its field staff would have to be increased from
the present level of about 60 extension workers to 125. In addition, with the
exception of work on rice all of ORD's applied research activities are pre-
sently concentrated on rainfed crops and there is an immediate need to
introduce a research program on irrigated crops. Assurances were obtained
that Government would arrange for ORD to:
(a) increase its extension staff in the project area to 125
by 1976; and
(b) initiate, within one year after signing of the loan agree-
ment, a program of applied research on irrigated crops in
the project area.
5.15      Fertilizers and pesticides are provided to farmers through the
primary and special purpose cooperatives of the National Agricultural
Cooperative Federation (NACF). The distribution of these inputs is effi-
cient and there is no shortage of supply. Short-term credit to finance farm
activities, which is also supplied through NACF, however, is in short supply
and, as a result, most farmers, especially the smaller ones, must rely on



- 18 -
private money lenders at high interest rates. The timely availability of
agricultural credit in adequate quantities and at reasonable rates is essen-
tial to the success of the project. NACF short-term loans of about W 13,500
per household presently account for half the farmers' agricultural credit
requirements. Assuming that demand for credit under the project would remain
at the present ratio to total production costs (54%), NACF would have to
increase its loans in the area from the present W 600 million to W 1.5 bil-
lion at full development (both figures expressed in 1971 prices). Assur-
ances were obtained that adequate amounts of short-term credit would be
available to farmers in the project area at all times.
5.16      Government has recently introduced a farm mechanization program
throughout the country under which NACF would make credit available to
farmers for the purchase of power tillers and other equipment. Further,
Government has obtained a loan from USAID of US$8.0 million for this credit
program, including an additional US$6.0 million for grain storage facilities.
In addition, an agricultural credit project has been appraised by the Bank
that would also provide credit for machinery for orchard and sericulture
development. In view of the labor shortage in the area (para 6.03) the
project would require about 4,000 power tillers at full development.
Assurances were obtained that NACF would give high priority to the mechanization
program in the project area.
5.17      Slightly less than half the rice produced in the country and about
one-quarter of the barley enter commercial marketing channels, with most
sales being handled by private traders. Foodgrains are also purchased by
the MAF as part of the price stabilization program through the Grain Manage-
ment Special Account (GMSA). GMSA's rice and barley purchases in 1969 ac-
counted for 18% and 40%, respectively, of all quantities entering commercial
channels. Various marketing functions are also provided by NACF's primary
and special purpose cooperatives (Annex 11). Existing marketing arrangements
are satisfactory and no difficulties are anticipated in meeting the project
needs.
5.18      The principal storage place for rice is the farmer's home, while
commercial storage capacity in the province is about 180,000 tons at 825
different sites.  About 40% of the capacity is owned and operated by the
private sector, 55% by NACF and the balance by MAF. As part of its program
to consolidate member cooperatives, NACF plans to expand its warehouse
capacity but this would meet only part of the project needs and would have
to be augmented by the construction of new storage facilities by the private
sector. To date, private traders have been responsive to market needs, and
an expansion of their capacity may be expected with the increased product-
ion on the project.



- 19 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARMERS' INCOME
Production
6.01      Rice is presently the predominant crop in the project area, account-
ing for about half the cropped area and nearly 80% of the value of production.
Due to erratic rainfall, however, there are considerable variations from
year to year in the area actually planted and harvested. Some improvement of
rice as well as other crop yields could be expected even without the project
although, in the absence of an assured regulated water supply, such increases
are not likely to be very significant 1/. Expected yield levels in ton/ha for
the main irrigated crops under the project are as follows: 2/ rice, 4.2 (2.8);
barley, 3.0 (2.2); white potato, 16.0 (10.0); sweet potato, 23.0 (15.0);
chinese cabbage, 28.0 (12.0); garlic, 9.0; and onion, 30.0. These yield
levels would be reached gradually over a five-year period following the start
of irrigation. Details of yields, production, prices and costs are given in
Annexes 12 and 13.
6.02      Following completion of the project, the overall predominance of
rice and barley in the cropping pattern is expected to decline due to a
reduction in the barley area and an increase in the area devoted to upland
crops. At the same time, the overall cropping intensity on the project
would increase from the present 163% to 182%, as summarized below:
Cropped Area                Production
Present   Future    Present   Future   Increment
-    (ha)Ö------           --('000 ton)---------
Rice               24,200    24,000        63       100         37
Barley             20,000    13,000        44        39        (-5)
Potatoes            2,300    10,000        30       188        158
Miscellaneous
Vegetables        2,200     6,800        23       117         94
Others              1,800     6,200         -        -          -
Total         50,500    60,000
6.03      Labor requirements under the project would be concentrated into
two peak periods of about three weeks each coinciding with the barley
harvesting-rice transplanting during May-June and rice harvesting-barley
planting during October-November. Together these two periods would account
1/   These increases, which were assumed at 2% per year for the purpose of
economic analysis (para 7.04), have not been incorporated in this
Chapter of the report.
2/   Figures in parenthesis represent current yields.



- 20 -
for nearly half the annual labor requirements on the project. With the ex-
pected increase in cropping intensity and yields under the project, labor
inputs would increase by about 35% over the present level. Such an increase
could not be met from the existing labor pool in the area, and it is therefore
expected that farm activities would have to be mechanized to the extent
necessary to offset the labor shortage. Should the need arise, further
mechanization of farm activities such as transplanting, harvesting and drying
would be possible.
Market Prospects
6.04      According to the draft Third Five-Year Plan (1972-1976), the over-
all foodgrain deficit would remain at about 2.1 million ton per year. The
rice deficit, which is estimated at 1.0 million ton in 1971, however, would
be eliminated by 1976. With limited land resources and a continuous shift
from food crop to more remunerative commercial and horticulture crop produc-
tion, virtually all of the increased rice production would have to come
through higher yields. Based on various rice demand forecasts an annual
increase in productivity of around 2.6% would be necessary to attain self-
sufficiency by 1976. Most available data indicate, however, that this is
unlikely since the increased annual productivity during the last five years
has been under 2.0%. The same would hold true for other foodgrains. Under
the circumstances, rice and barley to be produced on the project should be
easily sold in the domestic market.
6.05      Except for foodgrains, there are no reliable demand forecasts for
the various crops to be produced on the project. In the absence of such
data, the country wide demand for selected crops was assumed, on the basis
on projected population and income growth, to increase 3.5% per year over
the 1965-69 average consumption level. Except for onions, where there is
good export potential to Japan, project production was limited to under 10%
of the 1980 demand figures. Considering the conservative basis of such a
forecast, the favorable climate conditions of the area compared with the
rest of the country, and proximity to major urban areas, project produce
should find a ready market. Furthermore, given the wide range of crops
already being produced in the area, farmers would have no difficulty in
shifting production from one crop to another should market constraints arise.
Prices
6.06      The eventual cropping pattern on the project would depend largely
on the price relationship between the various crops. For foodgrains, this
relationship is subject to direct Government intervention in the market.
Faced with a growing foodgrain deficit, Government intends to curtail rice
consumption by maintaining rice prices at a relatively high level in rela-
tion to wheat and barley.  To this end, it is presently following a dual-price
policy, under which it purchases rice through the price stabilization program
at above market prices during harvest time. In addition to imported rice,
these purchases, which presently amount to about 10 of local production



- 21 -
(para 5.17), are then released during peak demand months for sale to urban
consumers at prices about 10% below the purchase price. The differences
between the buying and selling prices, plus storage and handling charges, are
absorbed by Government. The net impact of this program is expected to
encourage rice production, increase farm income and at the same time stabilize
rice prices to the consumer. On the other hand, a low barley price relative
to rice would impede the Government's plan to increase barley production.
In preparing the farm budgets, it was assumed that rice and barley prices
would remain at about their mid-1971 level.
6.07      The high rice price policy might bring about misallocation of
resources by encouraging rice production on land better suited for other
crops. Furthermore, since small farmers who produce mainly for their own
consumption do not benefit from this policy and low income urban workers
are faced with higher prices, the policy is unlikely to bring about an
equitable redistribution of income. The rice price policy, including its
possible adverse effects, was discussed during negotiations. It is presently
being reviewed by a team of experts from Michigan University sponsored by
USAID and would also be examined by a Bank agricultural sector mission in
the second half of 1972.
6.08      Next to foodgrains, the main commodities to be produced on the
project are potatoes, miscellaneous vegetables and fruit. All these commod-
ities are subject to wide seasonal and annual price fluctuations. In the
absence of data on market arrivals, however, it was impossible to establish
a correlation between quantities marketed and prices. The price adopted in
*qis report is based on the average 1965-70 annual price, adjusted to the
1971 level.
Farmers' Income
6.09      In calculating the farm income it was assumed that the number of
man-days contributed by both family labor and hired labor at full development
would remain at the present level. Because of labor shortage in the area,
increased output under the project would require at least partial mechaniza-
tion of farm activities. Farm production costs (Annex 12) reflect the
increased use of machinery. Present and projected farm production costs
exclude family labor contribution. All hired labor requirements were priced
at W 540 per day, which represents the average wage for male and female workers.
Farm activities, and likewise production costs, assume the use of power
sprayers, semi-automatic threshers and power tillers for land preparation
and transportation wherever practicable. The cost of machinery was
adjusted to reflect the recent devaluation of the won and is based on the
going market rate for hired equipment, including operators' wages.
6.10      Although half the rice fields in the project area are currently
under partial irrigation, present returns do not differentiate between rainfed
and irrigated farms, and all returns from rice represent the weighted average
of both types of cultivation. Based on the findings of a recent farm house-
hold survey, the cropping pattern on the different farm sizes was assumed



- 22 -
to be the same although family labor contribution varies considerably, ranging
from 84% of total labor requirements on the 0.3-ha farm model to 53% on the
3.0-ha farms. Four representative farm models were examined. In each case,
in addition to the income derived from farming, the family income is
supplemented through work in other sectors. Non-farming income is especially
important on the 0.3- and 0.7-ha farm models, where it accounts, respectively,
for nearly 50% and 23% of total income under present conditions. On the
larger farms, it becomes considerably less important, accounting for under
15% of total income. With the number of family labor man-days available
for work off the farm remaining the same (6.08), earnings from non-farming
activities was assumed to increase in line with the general grow¢th of income
through the economy.
6.11      The projected increase in farm income, after deducting all project
charges, would nearly double on all four model farms, the largest increase
occurring on the 3.0-ha farms that account for about 10% of the project
area (para 3.09). For all farm sizes, however, the expected increase in
family income would be substantial and should guarantee the farmers' partici-
pation in the project. Detailed analyses of annual farm income at present
and at full development are presented in Annex 13 and summarized below:
Farm Income
Farm          Present               Full Development             Increment
Size  Farming  Non-    ToLal  Farming  Non-    Total  Farming  Non-    Total
(ha)            farming                                             farming
-----------(000 Wo   -----------------------------
0.3      67       68      135       132     134      266      65       66     131
0.7     151       46      197       305      90      395    154        44     198
1.5     294       46      340      578       90      668    284        44     328
3.0     526       60      586    1,272      118   1,390    746         58     804
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Analysis
7.01      The project would bring about a substantial increase in agricultural
production, almost entirely through higher productivity; a diversification
of farm activities from the rice-barley sequence into higher value crops; an
increase in farm income; and, through the increased production of rice and
cereals, a reduction in Korea's foodgrain deficit. It would also contribute
significantly toward realizing Government's goal of bringing about a more
equitable income distribution between the urban and rural areas and becoming
self-sufficient in rice production.



- 23 -
7.02      At US$2,500 per ha, costs are high by comparison with most other
Bank-financed irrigation projects. While these costs are due, in part, to
the irrigation canals having to traverse long distances through undulating
terrain before reaching the project areas, much is the result of installing
a highly intensive and sophisticated system, which, following land consoli-
dation, would provide fields, averaging about 0.3 ha, with their own irri-
gation inlet and drainage outlet as well as access to a farm road. Under
such a system, it is possible to control irrigation and drainage at all
times and thereby to obtain exceptionally high yields and income per unit
of land. Considering the extremely limited opportunities to further expand
the cultivated land in the country, the small size of virtually all farms
and the tremendous industry and ability displayed by the Korean farmer,
such high investments are justified both on economic and social grounds.
7.03      In evaluating project benefits, rice and barley prices were based
on the Bank Economics Department's world market price projections for 1980
while all other crops were based on the 1965-70 average farm gate price ex-
pressed in 1971 prices (see para 6.06). All hired labor requirements
have been costed at the going market rate. Irrigation was assumed to be
introduced over a three-year period, commencing at the end of the construction
period, and incremental benefits to accrue gradually over a five-year period
following the start of irrigation.
7.04      At full agricultural development in 1982, the net value of agri-
cultural production would be US$20.3 million, with most of the increase being
accounted for by garlic, potatoes, rice, Chinese cabbage and orchards. The
orresponding value without the project would have been about US$3.8 million.
When discounting the incremental benefits and relevant costs over the 50-year
life of the project, the economic rate of return would be about 13%. The
analysis also shows that there are no significant differences in the economic
benefits between the four subprojects. The net present worth of foreign
exchange earnings, at a discount rate of 12%, is US$44.8 million while the
internal foreign exchange rate is W 303 to the US$, which is appreciably
better than the official exchange rate of W 370 (Annex 14).
7.05      A sensitivity analysis was carried out to examine the following
adverse conditions: 30% reduction in the rice cropped area; 50% reduction
in the onion and garlic cropped area; 20% increase in farm production costs;
30% increase in construction costs; three year extension of the construction
period; and five year extension of the development period. In each of these
cases the rate of return would exceed 10%. Assuming any two of the above
events should occur simultaneously, the rate of return would still be around
9%. Further details are presented in Annex 14.
Income Distribution
7.06      The rapid industrial growth during the past decade has brought
about a serious income gap between the urban and rural areas. To combat
this growing disparity, Government has taken two major steps -- it accelerated
the development rate of irrigation projects, which permits both increased



- 24 -
productivity and diversification of farm activities, and it raised the rice
procurement price. The Yong San Gang project, which would benefit some
45,000 farm families, is expected to make a significant contribution towards
meeting Goverment's goal of raising rural incomes. Under the project, the
average estimated per capita income would increase from its present level of
US$85 to US$180 at full agricultural development. This increase in earnings
would prevent a further widening of the income gap between the beneficiaries
and the rest of the economy, although even at full development, per capita
income in the area would still be below the present national average of
US$235 or the projected figure for 1982 of over US$400.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a) the water rights of all lands under the project would be
legally recorded and the normal and regulated flow of the
rivers protected from future depletions that could ad-
versely affect the supply to the project (para 4.14);
(b) non-Korean firms would not be required to register in
Korea as a condition of bidding and, where such registration
is required after award of contract, Government would take
any necessary action to facilitate its accomplishment (para
4.24);
(c) ADC would undertake the following:
(i) set up a project field office in Kwang Ju to be in
charge of all project works;
(ii) appoint the necessary project staff at headquarters
and the field office to ensure completion of work by
1977; and
(iii) consult with the Bank/IDA before making appointments to
the posts of director in charge of the project and
project manager (para 5.03);
(d) a plan for supporting agricultural services would be prepared
and, after having been reviewed by the Bank/IDA implemented
within one year after signing of the loan/credit agreements
(para 5.06);
(e) water charges would be imposed and collections made in
the project area to cover operation and maintenance
costs and to recover the equivalent of 40% of the capital
cost at 3.5% interest over a period not to exceed 40 years
(para 5.09);



- 25 -
(f) ADC would prepare a plan for operation and maintenance of
project facilities, including periodic inspection of the
dams, and present it to the Bank/IDA for review and comments
within three years after signing of the loan/credit agreements
(paras 5.11 and 5.12);
(g) the Office of Rural Development would increase its extension
staff in the project area to 125 by 1976 and commence, within
one year after signing of the loan agreement, a program of
applied research on irrigated crops in the project area
(para 5.14); and
(h) adequate short-term credit would be available to the
farmers in the project area and high priority would be
given to the mechanization program.
8.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the following has been
agreed upon as,a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan/credit:
(a) the employment of a consulting firm acceptable to the
Bank/IDA under terms of reference approved by the Bank/IDA
(para 5.05).
8.03      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$33 million, for a term of 30 years
including a six-year grace period and an IDA credit of US$15 million.
December 21, 1971






ANNEX 1
Page 1
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Soils
Soil Survey and Land Classification
1.        In 1967 a detailed reconnaissance soil survey of Korea was conducted
by the Office of Rural Development (ORD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAF) and UNDP/FAO. A 1:1,000,000 map and an accompanying outline
in English, briefly describing the main soil groups of Korea, are available
but the full report has not yet been published.
2.        In 1967-1970 ADC conducted a semi-detailed soil survey and land
classification of the project area. Base maps used were derived from 1:10,000
aerial photo. Auger borings were made according to a grid system at 100 m
intervals and larger holes, one for each 100 ha, were dug to reach the parent
material. Considerable data on land and soil properties were assembled in
the field and tested in the laboratory in order to conduct a land classifi-
cation based on the USBR system. The information obtained, however, was in-
competently assembled and the land classification was not properly done, as
existing irrigation and drainage facilities were studied instead of the po-
tential irrigation and drainage suitability based on soil characteristics.
3.        Notwithstanding the inadequate report, examination of the assembled
data and observations made in the field give sufficient evidence that the
project area is suitable for development of irrigated double cropping after
land consolidation and benching. A breakdown of project lands by subprojects
and districts is given in Table 1.
Suitability for Irrigated Double Cropping on Paddy Land
4.        The low land paddy soils consist of loam and silt loam down to
over 1 m deep, with clay content increasing moderately with depth. The drain-
age is imperfect, largely due to the high silt content which varies from
30% to 50%. Percolation rates vary from 3 to 5 mm per day. After consolida-
tion, paddy lands would be provided with farm drains at 100 m intervals, which
would be adequate to remove surplus surface runoff.
5.        Barley, the main winter crop, is planted in early November (10 to
20 days after the rice harvest); it produces a good stand by utilizing resid-
ual moisture after rice but irrigation would be provided in November when the
autumn has been unusually dry. No irrigation would be applied from December
to February, when the ground freezes. Supplementary irrigation would be
supplied in March, April and May, the largest requirement occurring in May
corresponding with the maturation period of barley. There is no subproject
area with a calculated monthly irrigation requirement exceeding 10 cm and



ANNEX 1
Page 2
upland crops would be planted on beds varying from 0.3 to 1.2 m wide with
10 cm deep furrows in between. Land consolidation enables low volume irriga-
tion to be supplied to each plot of an average size of 0.3 ha.
6.        No groundwater data are available for the project area.  Farmers
interviewed, however, complain about dry spells, rather than inadequate
drainage in spring months. There has been no difficulty in draining water
from plots after fairly heavy spring rains on land already consolidated.
7.        The fact that the project area already has a 160% cropping inten-
sity indicates a satisfactory general drainage pattern. Low spots are being
used for establishing rice nurseries in April and May where winter crops
would not be grown. The proposed supplementary winter and spring irrigation
with improved drainage by land consolidation would not create a drainage
problem on the paddy land.
Suitability for Irrigated Double Cropping on Upland
8.        Upland soils vary mostly from 70-100 cm in depth, and from silty
clay loam to clay loam in texture, the clay content increasing with depth.
Drainage has not been a problem on upland where slopes are generally over 9%.
Even in areas where drainage of low land has been a problem for winter
cropping, upland has always been fully double cropped or planted to orchard
trees. The project work would include benching and terracing of upland soils
which are easily erodible. Irrigation and drainage ditches would be construct-
ed for supplying water to and draining water from the benched/terraced plots.
In May the maximum calculated monthly irrigation requirement in all sub-
projects does not exceed 14 cm. Those for other months are considerably
smaller. With the planned irrigation schedule, the benching and terracing,
and the building of drainage channels, drainage would not be a problem in
the future.
Salinity and Acidity
9.        No salinity has been detected in any of the samples analyzed.
Electric conductivity determinations have been made on most of the samples
taken. None has a value exceeding 0.2 mmho/cm.
10.       Soils in the project area are generally acidic, which is common to
soils derived mainly from granite parent rock and by podzolization process,
during which most of the base elements are leached out. Soil pH data sur-
veyed by the UNDP Soil Fertility project and by the ORD Guidance Bureau vary
considerably, but they agree in one respect, e.g. at least 85X of all the
samples taken have pH value below 6, and at least 75% have pH value below
5.5.
Liming Program
11.       To prepare a full liming program for the project, ADC conducted in
1969 and 1970 a detailed field pH test in all subproject areas.  Using an
ORD kit which is now a standard equipment for quick field pH tests in Korea,
one sumple was taken for each 10 ha.  The result confirmed earlier surveys.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
The pH values were recorded on 1:3,000 maps that show boundaries of individ-
ual farm parcels. The same base maps are being used by ADC for designing the
canal layout and land consolidation.
12.       ORD has conducted liming experiments on rice, barley and soybean
and established adaptable pH ranges for various crops. It recommends that,
for achieving maximum crop yields, the pH of double cropped paddy land (rice
followed by winter upland crop) should be adjusted to 6.5, and that of the
single rice crop paddy field, to 6.0. It also recommends that a sufficient
quantity of lime be applied as an initial dosage to bring the soil pH at once
to the desired level, and maintenance application be made on every fourth
year. Using the ORD kit, extension officers can directly determine the lime
requirement from readings in the field.
13.       Korean farmers are familiar with lime application and MAF has been
sponsoring a national subsidized liming program for a number of years. The
program received a 70% subsidy in 1970 and currently receives a 100% subsidy.
From 1966 to 1971, the amount of lime supplied to farmers annually under the
program in Jeonla Nam Do province varied from 45,000 to 67,000 tons. Accord-
ing to the Provincial ORD, the province would need about 500,000 tons to make
a proper initial application on 30% of the paddy fields and 60% of the up-
land. If a four-year rotation is made on all the land needing treatment,
some 125,000 tons would be required annually. The present supply level meets
about one-half to one-third of the annual need, the limiting factor being
the Government budget available for subsidy. Because of the insufficient
quantity, lime is divided among provinces, counties and villages.  Some
tarmers do not use lime at all, others use 1 or 2 tons per ha. Some lime
(slake lime) probably finds its way into non-agricultural uses. In short,
the existing program would not be adequate for adoption in the project area
where full yield development is expected five years after completion of the
project works.
14.       Under the project, the liming program would be executed in the fol-
lowing manner:
(a) ADC's field office and Jeonla Nam Do Provincial ORD would
jointly estimate the lime requirement of each consoli-
dated or benched land block;
(b) the Jeonla Nam Do Provincial Government would order shell
powder of proper mesh from private lime factories and
contract the Korean Transportation Corporation to trans-
port and deliver the lime to each land block. The cost
of lime would be borne by the Government subsidy program.
These are standing practices of the provincial lime pro-
gram; and
(c) contractors for land consolidation or benching would apply
the desired amount on each plot of land. Farmers would
spread the lime and plow into soil upon completion of
land consolidation and on-farm development.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
15.       The estimated lime requirement for the initial application in the
project is given in Table 2.
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 1
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Distribution of Land by Subprojects
Area Under Cultivation (ha)
Source of     Irrigation                 Partial
Sub-Project         Water Supply    Division    Rainfed    Irrigation   Total
Dam Yang        Yong San Gang River Dam Yang    1,620            1,820     3,440
Kwang San   3,610          1,300     4,910
Sub-Total       5,230          3,120      8,350
Jang Seong      Hwang Yong River    Jang Ham    4,650            4,400     9,050
No An       2,200            680      2,880
Sub-Total       6,850          5,080    11,930
Kwang Ju        Kwang Ju river       Kwang Ju    1,420             800     2,220
Dae Cho         Ji Seok Cheon River Na Ju         7,000          3,500    10,500
Total          20,500         12,500    33,000
October 13, 1971



KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Initial Requirement of Lime Application
Paddy                                 Upland                     Other  1/            Total
Area      Requirement      Total     Area      Requirement      Total      Area      Total      Area      Requirement
(ha)        (tons/ha)  Requirement  (ha)         (tons/ha)   Requirement  (ha)  Requirement  (ha)            (tons)
(tons)                               (tons)               (tons)
Jang Seong
Jang Ham              6,970         1.96         13,661    1,295           4.03        5,219        785    4,297      9,050          23,177
No An                 1,720         2.72          4,678       720          4.63        3,334        440    2,361      2,880          10,373
Dam Yang
Kwang San            3,720         2.72         10,118    1,359           4.30        5,844        176    1,514      5,255          17,476
Dam Yang             2,685         2.21          5,934       364          3.75        1,365         46      422      3,095          7,721
Kwang Ju                1,795         2.21          3,967       308          3.75        1,155        117       371     2,220           5,493
Dae Cho
Na Ju                5,525         3.31         18,288.   2,183           5.51       12,028        997    6,882      8,705         37,198
Dae Cho              1,795         3.31          5,941       -              -           -         _                  1,795          5,941
Total               24,210                      62,587    6,229                      28,945      2,561   15,847    33,000        107,379
Average Require-
ment (tons/ha)                     2.59                                   4.65                        6.19                   3.35
_  mx
1/ Includes 2b239 ha of forest, 176 ha of orchard, 111 ha of mulberries, 72 ha of bamboo and 85 ha of pasture.                                 M -



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECr - STAGE I
Description of the Project
A. Selection and Formulation of the Project
1.        In 1964 the Government of Korea initiated the All Weather Farming
Program with the objective of providing irrigation, land consolidation and
on-farm development to about 500,000 ha of presently cultivated land through-
out the country. The overall purpose was to establish an assured source of
agriculture and food production which would not be entirely subject to the
vagaries of rainfall and recurrent drought. The program was also designed
to overcome a part of the persistent food deficit, particularly in food
grains, as the increasing need to import food has imposed a heavy burden on
the financial resources of the country. With only 30% of the land area in
the country suitable for agriculture, it is recognized that increased produc-
tion will have to come from more efficient use of presently cultivated land
as large extensions of new land are obtainable only by costly reclamation
of tidal areas.
2.        The two most effective means for increasing production are an
assured water supply and on-farm development.  The recurrent annual droughts
during the peak growing season are a continuing constraint on yields and
overall production and the long droughts as experienced in 1967-68 have had
a severe effect on the total food supply. It is further recognized that
irrigation and on-farm development are concomitant as the justification for
irrigation development largely depend on maximum and diversified production
from the land, which in turn, may only be achieved by efficient water use
and farming practices made possible by on-farm development. Furthermore,
diversification to food crops other than rice and barley, which is needed
to improve the food supply in the country cannot achieve its full potential
without irrigation.
3.        The possibilities for irrigation development on a large scale in
Korea are confined to four large river basins, i.e., the Han, Naktong, Keum
and Yong San. Of these the Yong San is considered to have the most favorable
conditions with a moderate climate, large contiguous areas of irrigable land,
adequate but undeveloped water resources and competent farmers who currently
obtain relatively good yields under rainfed conditions and with partial
irrigation on a portion of the land. The Government is engaged, with the
assistance of USAID, UNDP, IBRD and other sources, in surveys, planning and
development in these basins. A long series of droughts, more severe in
the Southwest Provinces, with the crisis conditions resulting from the
1967-68 drought, led the Government to a decision to give highest priority



ANNEX 2
Page 2
to irrigation development in this part of the country and to proceed rapidly
with implementation of projects which could stabilize the situation in an
area which contributes a major share of the food supply. The first project
was the Pyongtaek-Kumgang in the Keum Basin which is underway with Bank
assistance (Loan 600-KO) and the Government now intends to continue the
program by implementing Stage I of the proposed Yong San Gang Basin Develop-
ment, which has been determined as the next most feasible step in the program.
4.        Formulation of the Yong San Gang Basin Development Plan (Master Plan)
was initiated by ULIA in 1966 and subsequently completed by ADC and Sanyu
Consultants in December 1970. This plan envisages utilization of a major
part of the available water resources in Jeonla Nam Do province to provide
irrigation for about 100,000 ha and to provide for urban and industrial
water requirements. The land to be developed includes about 70,000 ha of
lower valley land and upland in the Yong San Gang drainage basin and about
30,000 ha to be reclaimed from tidal lands along the west and south coast
of the province. Seadikes would be constructed for storage and water supply
to the tidal lands whereas dams and reservoirs in the upper reaches of the
Yong San Gang and its tributaries could provide an irrigation supply to the
valley lands and uplands.
5.        The planning methodology included preparation of plans for indivi-
dual hydrographic units of the basin by optimizing a wide range of development
possibilities and comparing alternative proposals. This took into account
the unit costs of water resource development and delivery to the land, the
cost of land preparation, the net incremental benefits to be obtained and
other factors normally used in determining the relative feasibility of
individual plans. By means of a systems analysis with a computer these plans
were then optimized into a master plan which takes into account the inter-
relation and the possible inter-linking of individual plans. Since the
overall regional plan was obviously too large and expensive to undertake at
one time, phasing of development would be required and a Stage I project was
selected. Additional studies proved that development of the upper valley
lands and adjacent uplands, with reservoirs in the upper watershed, was more
advantageous at this time than the more costly and time consuming construction
of seadikes and reclamation of tidal lands. The Stage I project was then
studied in greater detail to establish and refine the plan for the project,
as presented in the feasibility report.
6.        The original plan for Stage I included five sub-projects covering
30,000 ha. One of these, Deok Ho, is located ilong the coast in the northwest
part of the province and outside the Yong San Gang basin. The appraisal
revealed that this sub-project required further investigation and Government
agreed to delete it from present consideration. The four remaining sub-
projects covered about 26,000 ha which did not include 7,000 ha contiguous
to the project areas, now partially irrigated by direct diversion or pumping
from the r4vers.  These lands, most of which still require consolidation and
on-farm development, would require a supplemental supply from project reser-
voirs for the rice crop and a full supply for winter and spring crops. It
was therefore agreed to include these lands in the project, thus bringing
the total area to about 33,000 ha.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
B. Description
General Plan
1.        The proposed plan for irrigation development is basically the same
for each of the individual sutbprojects. It would consist of a dam and
storage reservoir, a main canal and secondary lateral system, a main drainage
system, land consolidation and on-farm development, and roads. The on-farm
development includes a tertiary system for irrigation and drainage, land
levelling and borders on tracts varying from 0.3 to 0.5 ha, and a farm road
system. All land in each of the project areas is presently farmed either
as rainfed or partially irrigated from small reservoirs, by pumping or direct
diversion from the rivers. The plan for each project takes into account
the different water requirements for paddy land and upland and also the
integration of existing systems into the main project especially from the
standpoint of supplying supplemental water and completing the land consolida-
tion program. This variation in the present status of land in each project
area was taken into account in planning the project and in computing costs,
water requirements and benefits.
Dams
2.        Construction of the four dams on the project would not present any
technical difficulties. Test borings on site indicate that the granite
base foundations are sound without major fractures or displacement and with
verv low permeability. Overburden is relatively shallow, usually not more
than 10 m, with a thin layer of decomposed rock over the undisturbed base
rock. Construction materials for both the rockfill and zoned earth dams are
available within a reasonable distance. Design is conventional for spillways,
outlet works and the dams and final design should not involve any major
changes which would increase the cost.
3.        In all cases a flood regulating surcharge of 2 to 2.5 m has been
provided and flood routing studies indicate this is more than sufficient to
contain any flood anticipated in the future.
4.        An important task related to constructing the dams is that of ac-
quiring and clearing the reservoir right of way. The following table lists
the number of people, the amount of land and other facilities that would be
involved in this operation. Funds would be provided in the project budget
from local currency to compensate farmers for land and existing on-farm
development. There are possibilities for relocating some of the farmers on
new land or for them to purchase other land. The existing tendency of emi-
gration to the larger cities where employment is available would absorb some
of the dislocated people. Such migration may, however, add to the congestion
problems in some of the larger cities.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Acquisition of Right of Way_in Reservoir Areas
Type of Development    Unit    Dam Yang    Jang Seong    Kwang Ju    Dae Cho
Population               ea      1,810         6,138         558         4,706
Farms - Paddy            ha        156           271          72           245
Upland                   ha         77           100          48           173
Other land               ha        233           279          44           416
Dwellings                ea        292           990          90           759
Public buildings         ea          3             2          -              3
Road Relocation          km         11            20           5             8
Power line poles         ea        137           203          60           372
Main Canal and Lateral Systems
5.        The main canals would originate at the storage dams and these to-
gether with the secondary laterals would supply the total area to be irri-
gated by gravity, feeding into the tertiary systems constructed as part of
the on--farm development or the existing systems. There are no plans for
constructing additional diversions or pumping stations on the project.
6.        Design of the system is based on a water duty of 1.4 liters/sec/
ha. This fairly high value, which has been set as a standard in Korea, is
based on the maximum demand of paddy rice during the month of August. Dur-
ing this critical growth period the system must be adequate to deliver 5 to
10 mm of water to each paddy every day and consequently a reduced system
capacity which could be achieved with a rotational delivery schedule is not
possible. An overall project efficiency of 60% was assumed in computing
water requirements.
7.        Construction of the main canal system would be fairly difficult and
costly due to the undulating topography on a large part of the project area
and the requirement for a relatively long and extensive canal system to serve
all the project lands. Also the main canals would be located along the lower
part of the foothills and a large number of flumes, siphons, tunnels and
other structures would be required to traverse the intensive cross-drainage
system. It is not planned to line the main canals, except in critical
areas where seepage could be excessive. Tunnels would be lined. Some ex-
cavation in rock would be required on that part of the canals immediately
below the dam and in tunnels but generally the systems would be constructed
in soils which are suitable for unlined canals. The design of all structures
in the system follows conventional standards.
8.        Design layout, quantities and cost estimates for the main canal
system are based on field surveys. The general layout has been plotted on
the 1:3000 scale base maps which were used to plan the projects. These maps
were prepared from aerial photos and show the existing land tenure together
with 1 m contours. They are adequate for surveys and planning on all aspects
of project development.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Land Consolidation and On-Farm Development
9.        In Korea the term "land consolidation" includes on-farm development
such as irrigation and drainage canals, leveling and bordering, structures
and roads, as well as the adjustment of farm boundaries into a uniform
rectangular pattern. For the purpose of this report the term has been ex-
panded to more accurately describe this work item.
10.       In the complete consolidation process, blocks or areas of land are
sub-divided into individual tracts 30, 40 or 50 m wide and usually 100 m
long. These tracts are arranged in parallel tiers to form an overall rec-
tangular pattern. Each tract which is bordered and leveled for flood irriga-
tion, is provided with an irrigation supply canal at one end and a drainage
canal at the other. The irrigation and drainage canals are alternated such
that each serves two tiers and a farm road may be constructed along one bank
of either canal, as suitable. Due to the shortage of land in Korea the canals,
borders and roads should be kept to a minimum size. All dwellings and service
centers are located apart from the irrigated area, usually on land not suit-
able for cultivation.
II.       The system described above has been adopted and implemented through-
out the country during the past several years as a means to obtain the high-
est efficiency and production from the limited land resources. This applies
primarily to irrigated paddy land where consolidation is considered essential
to justify investment in irrigation works and associated facilities. The
process may, however, be applied to non-irrigated land and to upland areas.
lae degree of treatment and cost varies with the condition of the land and
the planned use of crops to be grown. The slope of the land and the amount
of leveling involved is an important factor. Normally the full treatment is
only carried out on rice land which has an assured water supply. In the
case of upland which has already been terraced, boundary adjustment may not
be practical and treatment may consist only of irrigation and drainage canals
and roads. Reclamation of forest or unused land and terracing may be included
in the process.
12.       During the past several years the consolidation process has been
completed on about 135,000 ha throughout the country. The work is usually
performed by contract with Government subsidizing 70% of the cost. Govern-
ment normally pays the total initial cost and recovery of the farmer's
share is spread over several years, depending on the specific circumstances.
The plan for the Yong San Gang project calls for a total of about 30,000 ha
to receive consolidation and on-farm development. This is divided into
class of treatment as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Area   Unit Cost
(ha)    ($/ha)
a) Complete adjustment of boundaries and on-farm
development.                                              18,500     900
b) Boundary adjustment, irrigation, drainage and roads
(no leveling).                                            4,300      625
c) Terracing, reclamation, irrigation, drainage, roads
and other facilities. (These lands after treatment
will consist of upland terrace with a minor amount
of paddy, orchard and pasture.)                            7,000     800
d) Land already consolidated or scheduled for consoli-
dation in 1972.                                           3,200
Total          33,000
Main and Tertiary Drainage Systems
13.       The purpose of the main drainage system is to receive surplus run-
off from the tertiary on-farm systems and convey it out of the area and into
the main rivers and tributaries. This system would be constructed to conform
to the topography and the existing natural drainage pattern as far as pos-
sible. In many cases improvement of existing or natural drains would be suf-
ficient.
14.       The provision of drainage, either main or on-farm, on the project
is designed primarily to remove surplus surface water. Under the Korean
system for paddy cultivation, a depth of 100 mm is considered optimum for
ponding and borders are constructed accordingly. There is a need, there-
fore, to remove the surplus deposited by heavy rainfall, especially follow-
ing several days of more or less continuous rain. In addition, the drainage
system is required to drain the paddy lands quickly as part of the cultiva-
tion cycle but especially at the end of the growing season for harvest and
to dry up the paddy for land preparation and planting the winter crop. In
the case of barley planting must take place by mid-November, following the
rice harvest in late October, if it is to stem properly before the first
frost. This allows only a few days between crops which requires that the
paddy be drained as rapidly as possible. It was noted, in fact, that a
sizeable proportion of existing paddy land could not be second cropped due
to a lack of adequate drainage which left the land waterlogged for several
weeks.
15.       Design of the main and tertiary systems is based on a maximum
daily rainfall of 170 mm. Records for the past 30 years at Kwang Ju indi-
cate that this maximum can occur once in 10 years. It is also assumed that
several days of continuous rainfall, especially in the paddy areas, can
produce 100% run-off. This results in a rather high design duty of 20
liters/sec/ha or 8 liters/sec/ha for each field. Previous experience in the
country with projects having a capacity of 15 liters/sec/ha indicates that
the higher figure is required to provide adequate drainage.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
16.       The project investigations included only a cursory examination of
groundwater conditions in the area and reliable data on this aspect is not
available. There is evidence, however, that there are no serious problems
with waterlogging except in a few small areas of low land. As noted in
Annex 1, observation of the area and interviews with farmers all indicate that
a high water table or fluctuations in the level have little or no effect on
farming operations. The undulating topography together with a well established
natural drainage system facilitates free movement and discharge of sub-surface
flow. In addition the low percolation rate in the silty loam soils, 5 miu or
less per day, limits the amount of water which reaches the water table, even
though much of the land is flooded for several weeks each year. In any case
the design of the drainage system would be for the primary purpose of reliev-
ing excess surface water and control of the groundwater level would be needed
in only a few isolated areas.
Basic Data
17.       The attached Tables 1 and 2 summarizes selected data for the dams
and main canal systems on the four sub-projects.
October 13, 1971






ANNEX 2
Table 1
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Basic Data on Dams
Item              Dam Yang        Jang Seong      Kwang Ju      Deo Cho
1. Drainage Basin   Yong San Gang  Hwang Yang Gang  Kwang Ju  Ji Seok Cheon
2. Catchment Area
(ha)                  6,560           12,280         4,130        10,470
3. Irrigable Area
(ha)                  6,520           13,838         2,224        10,543
4. Type of Dam         Rock Fill       Earth Fill    Earth Fill   Earth Fill
(zoned)       (zoned)       (zoned)
5. Reservoir Capa-             /1               /1
city (ha-m)           6,500 -          6,500!-       1,165         8,000
6. Normal Water
Level (MSL)          118.50            82.50         74.50         62.40
7. Height of Dam
(m)                    46               33            23            33
8. Length of Dam
(m)                   315              615           414           496
9. Volume (m )         839,600         1,681,000       566,000      1,372,000
10. Type of               Side            Morning        Side          Morning
Spillway             Channel           Glory        Channel         Glory
/1   Will be modified during final design.
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 2
Table 2
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Basic Data on Main Canal Systems
Item                        Dam Yang   Jang Seong   Kwang Ju        Dae Cho
1. Number of Canals in
System                           10           10          2            10
2. Total Length (km)               75.4         106.8       28.0         113.9
3. Unlined Earth Canal (km)        66.4          74.4       20.7          96.6
4. Lined Canal (km)                 0.5           8.3         1.3           1.9
5. Tunnels (no.) (km)             14/3.2        38/13.5    13/3.2        18/6.2
6. Siphons, Culverts, Flumes    47/5.2          89/10.4    19/2.8        91/9.0
(no.)(km)
7. Design Capacity at Dam
(m3/sec.)                      8.85          11.0        1.14          10.7
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 3
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT -STAGE I
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
YEAR  (calendar) 1     1972              1973       1       1974               1975               1976
ITEM OF WORK                  |                   I                  I                  |                  I                _
1, F INAL DES IGN    ___
SPECIFICATIONS & CONTRACTS
2. DAM YANG PROJECT                  -                                          _
c) DAM, RIGHT OF WAY & r
ROAD RELOCATION
b) MAIN CANAL AND DRAINAGE-1-t
SYSTEM
c) LAND CONSOLIDATION  &                   _                                         t        I          tl_
ON - FARM DEVELOPMENT
3. JANG SEONG  PROJECT
a) DAM, RIGHT OF WAY &      -         -_
ROAD RELOCATION
b) MAIN CANAL& DP'AINAGE
SYSTEM                                                                                          1 
c) LAND CONSOLIDATION  &                                I         I                  1
ON - FARM DEVELOPMENT
4. KWANG  JU PROJECT                                                                      -   -   -   -
a DAM, RIGHT OF WAY &
ROAD RELOCATION
b) MAIN CANAL & DRAINAGE
SYSTEM                           -    -   -   -   -
c) LAND CONSOLIDATION &                                                                            I                mu
ON - FARM DEVELOPMENT
5. DAE CHO  PROJECT                                                                    I
a)DAM, RIGHT OF WAY &                             |I
ROAD RELOCATION
b) MAIN CANAL & DRAINAGE
SYSTEM
c) LAND CONSOLIDATION  &
ON - FARM DEVELOPMENT
6. LINK CANAL - JANG SEONG
TO DAM YANG
7, FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR                                           -1-----
STAGE 11                     -         -   -                     I
IBRD-5989(2R)






ANNEX 3
Table 1
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Completion Dates for Major Work Items and Activities
Project Works
Subproject and             Dam   Main Canal and       Drainage System and       Begin
Activity                         Land Consolidation  On-Farm  Development   Irrigation
Dam Yang
a)  Circulate Tender
Documents         7/1/72           4/1/73               4/1/73
b)  Award Contract and
begin Construc-
tion             10/1/72           7/1/73               7/1/73
c)  Complete
Construction      3/30/76          6/30/76             12/30/76
d)  Dam Yang Area                                                                3/1/76
e)  Kwang San Area                                                               3/1/77
Jang Seong
a)  Circulate Tender
Documents         7/1/72           4/173               4/1/73
b)  Award Contract and
begin Construc-
tion             10/1/72           7/1/73               7/1/73
c)  Complete
Construction      6/30/76         12/31/76             12/31/76
Cd)  JTang Ham Area                                                              3/1/76
e)  No An Area                                                                   3/1/77
Kwang Ju
a) Circulate Tender
Documents          1/15/73         7/15/73              7/15/73
b) Award Contract and
begin Construc-
tion              4/1/73          10/1/73              10/1/73
c) Complete
Construction     12/31/75         6/30/76              12/31/76
d)  Kwang Ju Area                                                                3/1/76
Dae Cho
a)  Circulate Tender
Documents         4/1/73           4/15/73              4/15/73
b)  Award Contract and
begin Construc-
tion              7/1/73           7/1/73               7/1 73
c)  Complete
Construction     12/31/76         12/31/76             12/31/76
d)  Na Ju Area                                                                   3/1/77
Link Canal-Jang Seong to Dam Yang       Start construction 1/l/75         Complete 12/31/76
Feasibility Study for Stage II          Start study  1/1/73               Complete 12/31/74






ANNEX 4
Page 1
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Water Supply, Demand, Quality and Rights
Adequacy of Rainfall
1.        Rainfall in the project area is irregular and frequently ill-timed
to meet crop requirements. An examination of monthly rainfall data for the
53-year period, 1916-69, indicates that a deficiency of 25% in the average
yearly rainfall could be expected once during each 3-year cycle, or duing
severe droughts, in successive years for as many as 3 years. The expectancy
of these yearly drought periods for 3 weeks up to a month each, which can
occur anytime during the growing season, ranges from 2 to 5 years. A drought
in May-June seriously retards the young plants and also causes a deficiency
in river runoff for diversion and pumping. Those in July-August affect crops
in the optimum growth stage and also increase irrigation demands during the
hot months.
2.        In the absence of irrigation the risk of drought is a major
constraint which could be responsible for a low yield and make the use of
fertilizer and other costly inputs ineffective. The degree of the risk is
qu.ite high in the case of rice cultivation. Rainfall data shows that drought
occurred in varying degrees in 40 out of the 53 years during the transplanting
period in June and the critical growth period in July-August. During these
drought periods, 22 years out of the 40 show monthly rainfall being less than
25% of the crop demands. This limits the rice yield to much less than the
potential which could be obtained with a full water supply.
3.        In the case of crops other than rice a deficiency of rainfall in
meeting the crop requirements is also evident. The magnitude of the risk
is not as great as that of rice, since water requirements are considerably
less. Even so, there were 36 years and 26 years out of 53 in which the
rainfall was deficient during the critical growth periods of early and late
crops respectively, and in about 10 of these years less than 25% of the crop
requirements were met by rainfall. Moreover, the rainfall data for the
53-year period reveals several severe droughts which continued for two
consecutive months. As a result total crop failure could be expected. Under
these climatic conditions irrigation is essential to guarantee a firm yield
from the summer crops.
4.        An analysis of the drought frequencies and their magnitude is
presented in Table 10.
Water Supply
1.        The project water supply would be obtained from the Yong San Gang
river and its tributaries. Four independent water supply schemes, Jang Seong,



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Dam Yang, Kwang Ju and Dae Cho, would be developed under the project. A
dam and reservoir would be constructed in the headwaters of each of the rivers
to store and regulate runoff. This would be the main supply for the 33,000
ha to be irrigated under the project. This would be supplemented by a
number of existing small reservoirs or tanks on small catchments within the
project area which supply a limited area with partial irrigation at present.
In addition, certain other lands near the rivers obtain a partial supply by
direct diversion or pumping. These several sources of supply have been taken
into account in reviewing the adequacy of the project water supply for full
irrigation of all land included in the project area. A classification of
land in the project area according to the present water supply conditions
is presented in Table 1. Under the project these lands would receive an
adequate irrigation supply.
2.        In the absence of long-term precipitation and runoff records in
each of the river basins it was necessary to reconstitute the historical
flow. This was done on the basis of 30 years of record, 1940-69, at Kwang
Ju for rainfall and discharge at four gauging stations in the lower part of
the basin. A computer was used to develop hypothetical flows for each 10-
day period in the 30-year period and this data was the basis for the reser-
voir operation studies to determine the supply that would be available to
the project. A review of the data derived in this manner indicated that rain-
fall and runoff in the basins were probably overestimated. The median of
average monthly rainfall at Kwang Ju, used in the correlation, resulted in
excessive amounts of rainfall in the headwater areas and a corresponding
runoff coefficient exceeding 65% as compared to 50-55% measured in other
basins in Korea. It was decided, therefore, to adopt a more conservative
estimate and the flow data was adjusted to 70% of the original estimates.
The adjusted monthly flow for the four rivers which would serve the project
are shown in Tables 2 through 5. These results may be summarized as follows:
Proposed Damsite         Average Annual Runoff
Jang Seong                       80
Dam Yang                         40
Kwang Ju                         24
Dae Cho                          56
Total   200
Inflow to Existing Reservoirs and Tanks
3.        Runoff data for existing reservoirs were estimated on the basis of
50% annual runoff coefficient. The regulated supply available from these
reservoirs was assessed on the basis of existing storage capacities. These
estimates show that only one-third of the runoff potential available from the
catchments has been used. The reservoir and tank capacities could be enlarged
if it proves necessary to utilize more of the runoff. The supply data on these
reservoirs are as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Mm3
Annual Runoff                               90
Total Capacity of Reservoirs                20
Usable Flow                                 30
A breakdown of the above data for each subproject is given in Table 6.
Normal Flow in Rivers
4.        The data on low flows in the rivers which supply existing projects
by direct diversion or pumping were obtained from the actual measurements made
during 1964-1969 at Ma Reug and Na Ju on the Yong San River; at Seon Am
on the Hwang Yong tributary; and Nam Pyeong on the Dae Cho Cheon tributary.
The data were extended back to 1940 using the low flow recession curve method.
These flows, which provide an annual average supply of about 80 Mm3, derive
mainly from groundwater discharge and are adequate to serve the rice crop
during the growing season. The absolute low flow condition occurs in the
month of June when a supplemental supply from the reservoirs could be required.
These lands would also need additional water for the winter and spring crop.
The low flow data on the basis of 10-day periods are given in Table 7.
Water Requirements
5.        Consumptive Use of Crops.  The consumptive use of crops was es-
timated for climatic and rainfall conditions as experienced during the period
1I!;0-69 by means of the Blaney and Criddle method. The crop coefficients
used were based on results of experiments conducted in adjacent areas in the
same region. The adopted coefficients are given in Table 8.
6.        Nursery Bed -- Paddy. Water requirement for the nursery bed of
rice is taken as 1,000 m3/ha during May. The cultivated area required
for the nursery bed is normally taken as 5% of the transplanted area.
7.        Land Preparation and Transplanting -- Paddy.  The analysis takes
into account the supply of about 1,000 m3/ha tor saturating the land during
land preparation and transplanting rice in June.
8.        Total Requirements of Crops.  The average total water requirements
of crops would be as follows:
Mar  Apr   May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep   Oct Nov  Total
---- ---  ---------m/h--------------------- - --
Paddy Rice                    250  2,250  1,750  2,400  1,350              8,000
3-month Upland   300  700  1,000                                           2,000
9-month Upland
(two crops)    300  700  1,000    700  1,250  1,500  1,100  400   50  7,000



ANNEX 4
Page 4
9.        Effective Rainfall.  With all land in the project area leveled and
bordered, 75% of the daily rainfall was estimated as effective. In the case
of rice, the maximum usable amount is 60 mm due to limitation imposed by the
height of the borders. The data were computerized on a daily basis using
field pondage carry-over system. On average, the effective rainfall would be
as shown below:
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total
----m -------------------------- -
Rainfall                  30  40  70  100 100 150 230 200 170 50  60  30  1,230
Usable Amount             -   -   30   60  60 100 130 120 100 30  20  -         650
% Effectiveness
(monthly basis)        -   -   43   60  60  66  57  60  60 60  30
10.       Losses and Irrigation Efficiency.  Losses of irrigation water in the
paddy field would be expected mainly through percolation from pondage.  The
percolation loss in the analysis is based on results of field investigations
which indicate it could vary from 2.4 mm per day to 4.8 mm per day according
to types of soil. The total field loss for upland crops was taken as 30%
which is reasonable.
11.       The total conveyance loss in the canal system was assumed to be
15%. The overall irrigation efficiency to be expected under the above as-
sumptions varies within a range of 50% to 60%.
12.       Municipal and Industrial Uses (M & I).  The project would provide
supply for M & I requirements up to the year 1990. Subsequent to this year,
the increase in demands, if any, would be undertaken by other stages of the
project or alternatives. The present use of water for M & I taken from the
Yong San Gang River below the proposed reservoirs is reported at 38,000
m3/day. The additional demands projected up to the year 1990, based on city
population increases and Government's plans for new industries, would be
about 210,000 m3/day. The principal towns having large consumption are Kwang
Ju, Mok Po and some district capital cities. These municipal consumptions
are estimated on the basis of 200 liters per day (53 US gal/day) per person.
13.       Total Water Requirements from Reservoirs.  Table 9 summarizes the
total project water requirements and those required to be drawn from the
proposed reservoir as supplementary to the existing supply schemes.
Water Quality
14.       The quality of surface water resources is excellent for irrigation
purposes. The river waters have been used on existing lands along the
streams for generations without any bad effect. Samples taken of the Yong
San River and its main tributaries show total dissolved solids of less -
than 100 ppm during flood and low flow periods.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Summary of Reservoir Operation Studies
15.       On the basis of the average annual runoff during the 30-year period,
1940-69, the supply, about 200 Mm3, would be sufficient for the project.  In
order to assess the adequacy on a seasonal basis and during periods of drought,
reservoir operation studies were performed on the basis of the original esti-
mates of runoff for the feasibility study and again with the adjusted runoff
which was taken as 70% of the first estimates. The 30-year period includes
drought years in 1943-44, 1951-52 and 1967-68 as well as average to good
years, all of which gave a realistic indication of conditions under which the
project would operate in the future. These studies are based on the projected
cropping patterns and the irrigation demand.
16.       The studies based on the lower runoff estimates indicate that reser-
voir storage would be sufficient to meet the irrigation requirements in 26
of the 30 years. Severe shortages in crop water requirements would occur
during the drought years ranging from 19% to 20% for the 1943-44 and 1951-52
periods and up 30% for 1967-68. Such shortages would require some reduction
in cropped area during these periods, with a corresponding reduction in
production. It is not economic, however, to construct the dams and reservoirs
to a capacity sufficient to store 100% of the runoff and to hold this storage
over for several years in order to make up the shortages. The reservoirs
as proposed would provide such holdover storage for 3 or 4 years but the
extreme variation in inflow, as shown in Tables 2, 3, 4 and 5, can result
in very short cycles, 2 to 3 years, from spill or surplus to shortage.
17.       The reservoir operation studies indicated further that Dam Yang
reservoir could not adequately serve the irrigable area of 8,420 ha originally
designated in this subproject, whereas with an increase in the height of the
dam Jang Seong reservoir would have the capability to serve more than the
12,000 ha originally proposed. It has been proposed, therefore, that the
two systems be linked together, which is physically and operationally feasible,
such that integrated operation of the two systems would ensure optimum use
of the water resources. With this link a supplemental or full supply could
be obtained from the Jang Seong system to serve the western part of the Kwang
San district, about 2,000 ha. In this way water could be delivered to Kwang
San from one or both systems, depending on availability and reduce the area
under Dam Yang for which a full supply would be required to about 6,520 ha.
Project costs include a provision of US$1.7 million for constructing the link
canal. The need for this canal and the corresponding modification in the
reservoirs would be reviewed by ADC and the consultants during the preparation
of final designs.
18.       The annual or seasonal schedule of water delivery on the project
would be determined at the beginning of the two main planting seasons on
the basis of the amount of water in storage at that time and an estimate of
runoff during the cropping season. Operating criteria for the reservoirs
would be developed, largely on the basis of actual experience, such that the
farmers could be notified as to the estimated supply available during any
given irrigation period. With this information the farmers could adjust the



ANNEX 4
Page 6
cropped area to the supply. The criteria and the rule curve would provide
that with decreasing availability, based on monthly estimates, the total
annual entitlement of each farmer would be reduced accordingly, taking into
account deliveries to date and the minimum amount required to finish the
current crop.  This would be highly important in case of prolonged drought
and the need to conserve part of the stored water for the following year.
Design Floods
19.       The 500-year flood probability was adopted as the design flood for
each reservoir spillway. The design flood was derived on an assumed rainfall
of 350 mm in a one-day storm. The resultant flood magnitudes when compared
with those experienced in regions of similar climate are suitable for design
purposes. For Kwang Ju dam however, the design flood appears to be underesti-
mated by at least 4 Mm3 and the dam would have to be raised by about 2.0 to
provide this additional flood storage. This would be studied further before
preparing the final design. The magnitudes of design floods adopted for
spillway design at each dam are given below:
Drainage Area   Peak Inflow   Flood Volume
km 2         m3/sec           Mm3
Jang Seong                  123            1,040            36
Dam Yang                     47              550            16
Kwang Ju original            41              400             8
Kwang Ju adjusted            41              500            12
Dae Cho                      84              970            26
20.       Historical flow data at Na Ju indicates flooding occurring, on the
average, in about 1 out of 5 years. However, almost all of the existing
irrigated lands already have flood protection embankments constructed by the
Ministry of Construction. The embankments were designed for floods with a
30-year probability. Consequently, flood damages along the main river are
minor. In the upper reaches, immediately downstream of the proposed dams,
there would be a considerable reduction of flood stages when the dams have
been built, but this would have no effect as far downstream as Na Ju and Nok
Po.
Sediment Loads
21.       Sediment loads transported by the rivers were computed on the basis
of an annual erosion depth of 0.40 mm per year whick is lower than might be
expected with the storm intensity common to this rejion. The Yong San Gang
watershed has an undisturbed natural vegetative cover which provides maximum
protection against erosion. Tanks and small reservoirs built several decades
ago in the river basin have retained their normal operating capacities without
excessive silting. These observations indicate that the sediment storage
reserved in the reservoirs would be adequate for 100 years, which is normal
design criteria.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Salt Intrusion in the Mok Po Estuary
22.       Construction of the reservoirs would not affect the existing salt
barrier in the Mok Po estuary which is presently maintained by fresh water
flow from the Yong San Gang basin. The reservoirs are located in the upper
part of the river system and account for about 10% of the basins catchment
area. Further, unregulated flow into the rivers below the reservoirs is
sufficient to maintain the barrier and satisfy existing downstream water
rights. During periods of low flow, direct diversions from the main rivers
to project lands would be supplemented by reservoir releases such that no
additional depletion of the normal river flow would occur.
October 13, 1971






KOREA - YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
PROPOSED IRRIGATED AREAS AND LAND USE UNDER DIFFERENT SUPPLY SCHEMES
Jang Seong Scheme                                     Dam Yang Scheme                  Kwang Ju      Dae Cho       Total
Land Use             Jang Ham      No An      Subtotal      Extension      Total      Dam Yang     Kwang San       Subtotal       Scheme       Scheme       Project
Towards                                   (Net)                                    (Na Ju)       Area
Kwang San
New Irrigated Land
paddy                 2,562      1,040         3,602            800      4,402         1,169          1,202         2,371         1,025)'    3,777        11,575
upland                2,088      1,160         3,248            620      3,868           450            988         1,438           386       3,223        8,915
subtotal              4,650      2,200         6.850          1.420     8.270         1.619          2 190          3 809         1 411       7 000       20 490
Existing Land Under Tank Supply (Without Land Consolidation At Present)
paddy                 2,148        160         2,308            480      2,788           489            -             489           143       1,300        4,720
Existing Land Under River - Run Diversion (Without Land Consolidation At Present)
paddy                   122         90           212             -         212           262            -             262           246 2/      -            720      Proposed by Consultants
paddy                 1,798        -           1,798             -       1,798         1,112            -           1,112           424 -    1,795         5,129      Proposed Extension
subtotal              1,920         90         2,010             -      2,010          1,374            -           1,374           670       1,795        5,849
Existing Land Under River - Run Diversion (Already Consolidated)
paddy                   340        430           770             -         770           -              848           848           -           448        2,066
sAbtotal for           4,408       680         5,088            480      5,568         1,863            848         2,711           813       3,543       12,635
existing land
TOTAL                  9,058      2,880       11,938          1,900    13,838          3,482          3,038         6,520         2,224      10,543       33X125
jI      11 ha is proposed under Dam Yang Cropping Pattern
2/      32 ha is proposed under Dam Yang Cropping Pattern
July, 1971



KOREA - YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
ESTIMATED RUNOFF OF HWANG YONG RIVER AT JANG SEONG DAMSITE                                                              (Figures in rows do pot necessarily
add correctly due to rounding)
(Drainage Area = 123km
Unit - Mi3
Year                    Jan             Feb            Mar             Apr            May             Jun            Jul             Aug            Sep             Oct             Nov            Dec             Annual
1940                      2              2               1              3               1              26              16             19              12             12              4              2                 99
41                     1               1              4               2              7               17             22              19             13               3             3               2                 94
42                     1               3             10               5              3                5              3              11              9               1             1               1                 51
43                     0               0              3               3              2                5             21              '2              9               5             3               1                 55
44                     0               0              0               2              1                1             15              13             12               2             4               3                 53
45                     0               0             13               1              2               15              6              16             19              17             2               3                 95
46                     1               1              5               4              8               27              6              22             11               5             2               2                 94
47                     3               0              1              4               4                8             30               7              5               2             1               4                 70
48                     3               1              5               3              7                5             20              21             36               2             1               2                107
49                     2               2              4              2               4                1             24              10              5               2             2               1                 59
50                     4               8              5              3               3              18               4               4             10               2             4               3                 69
51                     3               2              3               2              4               4               3               4              3              8              5               3                 43
52                     2               1              3             14               5                4              3             23              45              5              3               2                112
53                     0               1              7               1              5              25              14               3              5              2              2              6                  72
54                     1               6              3              3              10               6              26             17               9              5              0              2                  88
55                     0               2              2               1              0                1             25             18               6              1              3               1                 59
56                     0               0             18             10              11              16              12               5             25              3              2              0                102
57                     2               2              0              6               5               7              19             20               1              1              8              5                 77
58                     3               2              2             12               3              11              13             16              27              8              3              2                102
59                     2               8              5              7               5                2              8               7             16              1              5              4                  69
60                     2               1              4              3               7                7             15             12              13              2              3              2                  71
61                     2               1             14              7               7                6             19             19              13              9              7              2                 105
62                     0               2              1              5               1                6             28             24              21              3              4               1                 96
63                     1               1              2              6              12              40              21               2              1              2              2              2                  91
64                     1               7              5              6               6               4              12               9             24              2              2               0                 78
65                     2               4              1              2               4               4              39               9              3               1             8               2                 80
66                     1               4             12              3               8                5             10             18               6               1             3               1                 72
67                     2               2              5              3               1               9               7               1              1               1             9               2                42
68                     0               0              3              3               1                3              1              12              6              15             3               2                 48
69                     4               6                            13              10                2             12             21              38               3             1               3                115
Median                           1.5            2.0             3.5            3.0            4.5              6.5             15.5           12.5            12.0            2              3              2                  68
Median Year -1964                 1               7              5              6               6               4              12               9             24               2             2              9                  78
% As of Annual                    1               9              6              8               8               6              15             12              31               2             2               0               100
July, 1971



KOREA - YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I         (Figures in rows do not
necessarily add correctly
ESTIMATED RUNOFF OF YONG SAN RIVER AT DAM YANG DAMSITE   due to rounding)
Drainage Area (including Ku Rim) = 66 kmn2
Unit -Mm3
YEAR      JAN      FEB       MAR      APR       MAY      JUN      JUL      AUG     SEP      OCT      NOV       DEC        ANNUAL
1940       1        1         1        1         0        13       9        10     6         6        2        11         61
1941       0        0         3        1        4         9        12       10     7         2        2        1          49
1942       0        2         5        2         1        2        1        5      4         1        -        0          21
1943       0        0         2        1         1        2        11       1      4         3        2       0           28
1944       0        0         0        1        0         1        7        7      6         1        2        1          27
1945       0        0         7        1         1        B        3        8      10        9        1       2           49
1946       1        0         3        2        4         14       3        12     6         3        1       1           49
1947       2        0         1        2        2         4        16       4      2         1        1        2          36
1948       2         1        3        2        4         2        10       11     19        1        1        1          56
1949       1         1        2        1        2         1        12       5      2         1        1        1          30
1950       2        4         3        2        1         9        2        2      4         1        2        1          35
1951       1        2         1        2        2         2        1        2      1         3        3       2           22
1952       1         1        2        8         3        2        1        12     23        3        2        1          57
1953       0        1         4        0        3         13       7        2      2         1        1       3           37
1954       0        4         2        1         5        3        14       8      5         3        0       1           46
1955       0        1         1        0         0        0        13       9      3         0        1       0           30
1956       0        0         10       6        6         8        6        2      13        1        1       0           53
1957       1        1         0        3         2        3        10       10     0         1        4        3          40
1958       2         1        1        7         1        5        6        9      14        4        2        1          53
1959       1        4         3        4         3        1        4        3      8         0        3        2          35
1960       1        0         2        1         4        3         8       6      7         1        1        1          37
1961       1        1         8        4         4        3         10      10     6         5        3        1          54
1962       0         1        0        3         0        3        1L4      12     11        2        2        1          50
1963       0        0         1        3         7        20       11       1      0         1        1        1          48
1964       0        4         2        4'        3        2         6       4      12        1        1        0          40
1965       1        2         1        1         2        2        20       4      1         0        4        1          41
1966       1        2         6        2         4        2         5       9      3         1        2        1
1967       1        1         3        2         0        4         3       0      0         0        4        1
1968       0         0        2        1         0        1         0       5      3         8         1       1           24
1969       2         3        1        7         5        1         6       11     20        1         0       2           60
Median     1        1         2        2         2        3         7       7       6        2         2       1           h0
Median
Year 1964 0       4         2        4         3        2         6       4       12       1         1       0           40
% as of
Annual    0       10        5        10        8        5         15      10     30        3         3       0           100
July, 1971



C-4                                       KOREA - YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I            (Figures in rows do not
necessarily add correctly
ESTIMATED RUNOFF OF KWANG JU RIVER AT KWANG JU DAMNITE        due to rounding)
Drainage Area = 41 km2
Unit - Mm3
YEAR      JAN      FEB      MAR      APR      MAY      JUN       JUL      AUG      SEP      OCT     NOV       DEC       ANNUAL
1940       1        1        0        1        0         8        5        6        4        4        1        1          30
1941       0        0        1        0        2        5         7        6        4        1        1        1          29
1942       0        1        3        1        1         1        1        3        3        0        0        0          15
1943       0        0        1        1        1         1        7        1        3        2        1        0          17
1944       0        0        0        0        0         1        4        4        4        7        1        1          22
1945       0        0        4        0        1        5         2        5        6        5        1        1          29
1946       0        0        2        1        3        8         2        7        3        2        1        1          29
1947       1        0        0        1        1        2         9        2        1        1       0         1          21
1948       1        0        2        1        2        1         6        6        11       1       0         1          33
1949       0        1        1        1        1        0         7        3        1        0       1         1          17
1950       1        2        2        1        1        6         1        1        3        1       4         1          21
1951       1        1        1        1        1        1         1        1        1        2       1         1
1952       1        0        1        4        1        1         1        7        14       2       1        1           34
1953       0        2        0        2        8        4         1        1        1        1       2        0           22
1954       0        2        1        1        3        2         8        5        3        1       0        1           27
1955       0        1        1        0        0        0         8        6        2        0       1        0           18
1956       0        0        6        3        3        5        4         2        8        1       1        0           31
1957       1        1        0        2        1        2        6        6         0        0       3        2           23
1958       1        0        1    -4           1        3        4         5        8        3       1        1           31
1959       1        2        1        2        2        0         2        2        5        0       2         1          21
1960       1        0        1        1        2        2        5         4        4        1       1        1           21
1961       1        0        5        2        2        2        6         6        4        3       2         1          32
1962       0        1        0        2        1        2        9         7        7        1       1        0           29
1963       0        0        1        2        4        12       6         0        0        1       1         1          28
1964       0        2        1        2        2        1         4        3        8        1       1         0          24
1965       1        1        0        1        1        1         12       3        1        0       3         1          24
1966       0        1        4        1        2        2         3        5        2        0       1        0           22
1967       0        1        1        1        0        3         2        0        0        0       3        0           12
1968       0        0        1        1        0        1         0        3        2        5       1         0          14
1969       1        2        1        4        3        1         4        7        12       1       0         1          35    P X
Median     1        1        1        1        1        2         4        4        3        1        1        1          24
Median Year
1964 0        2        1        2        2        1        4         3        8        1       1        1           24
% as of
Annual 0        8        4        8        8        4         17       12       33       4       4        4           100



KOREA - YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
C-                              ESTIMATED RUNOFF OF CHEON RIVER AT DAE CHO DAMSITE   (Figures in rows do not necessarily
add correctly due to rounding)
Drainage Area (including Keum Jeong) = 105 km2
Unit Mm3
YEAR    JAN     FEB      MAR     APR     MAY      JUN     JUL      AUG     SEP      OCT     NOV      DEC       ANNUAL
1940     1       1        1       2        1       19      12       15      9        9       3        2          74
1941     1       0        3       1        5       12      16       14      10       3       2        2          70
1942     0       2        7       3        2       3         2      8       6        1       1        0          37
1943     0       0        2       2        2       3       16       1       6        4       2        1          39
1944     0       0        0       1        0       1        10      10      9        1       3        2          38
1945     0       0        10      1        1       11       4       11      14       13      1        2          70
1946     1       0        3       3        6       20       4       16      8        4       1        2          69
1947     2       0        1       3        3       6       22       5       3        2       1        3          51
1948     3       1        4       2        5       3        14      15      27       2       1        2           79
1949     1       2        3       1        3       1       17       7       3        1       1        1          41
1950     3       6        4       2        2       13       3       2       7        2       3        27         50
1951     2       2        2       1        3        3        2      3       2        6       4        2          31
1952     2       1        2       11       4        3       3       17      33       4       2        1           82
1953     0       1        5       0        3       18      10       2       4        2       2        5          53
1954     0       5        3       2        7        4      19       12      7        4       0        1          64
1955     0       1        1       0        0        0       18      14      4        1       2        1          43
1956     0       0        13      8        8       11       9       4       19       2       1        0           75
1957     1       2        0       4        3        6       14      15       1       1       6        4           56
1958     2       1        1       9        2        8       9       12       20      6        2       1           74
1959     2       6        4       5        4        1       5       5        12      1        4       3           51
1960     2       0        3       2        5        5       11      9        9       2        2       1           51
1961     1        1       11      5        5        4       14      14       9       7        5       1           78
1962     0        1       0       3        1        5       21      8        16      2        3       1           61
1963     0       1        2       4        9       30       16      1        1       2        1       1           67
1964     1       5        4       4        4        2       8       7        18      1        2       0           56
1965     1       3        1       1        3        3       28      7        2       1        6       2           58            > 
1966     1       3        9       2        6        3       8       13       4       1        2       1           52
1967     1        1       4       2        1        6       5       1        0       1        7       1           30          L
1968     0       0        2       2        1        2       0       8        5       11       2       1           34
1969     3       4        2       10       8        1       8       16       29      2        1       2           85
Median          1       1       3        2       3         4      10        10      9        2       2       2           49
Uedian Year '641        5      &        4        4         2                7      18        1       2       0           56
2 as of Annual  2  lo   7  7   7   4  14  12  30  2  4  o     u00
7as of Annual  2     1U7                                 4      lh        12     30        2       4       0



ANNEX 4
Table 6
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
RUNOFF DATA FOR TANK GROUPS UNDER EACH SUBSCHEME
Subscheme
Jang Seong   Dam Yang   Kwang Ju   Dae Cho       Total
ÖMm3
Annual Runoff                 50          10            3         26           89
Total Capacity                13           2           0.5         5         20.5
Useable Flow                 20            3            1          7          31
July, 1971



ANNEX 4
Table 7
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
10-Day Minimum Flow Occurring 3 Years Out of 30
Unit - Mm3
Mar    Apr   May    June   July   Aug    Sept
Jang Seong Scheme
Hwang Yong River at
Seon Ann                     0.68   1.25   1.22   0.66   2.43   1.67   1.75
Dam Yang Kwang Ju Schemes
Yong San River at Ma Reng       0.71   1.47   1.10   0.68   2.96   1.94   2.10
Dae Cho Scheme
Dae Cho Cheon at Nam Pyong    0.38   0.84   0.78   0.38   1.20   0.75   0.85
Yong San River at Na Ju         3.21   4.42   5.53   3.70   8.94   8.61   9.24
July, 1971



ANNEX 4
Table 8
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
CGMPUTATION OF WATER REQUIREMENTS - BLANEY - CRIDDLE METHOD
K-Value by Type of Crop
Duration                                   Type of Crop
Mionth  10-day             I       II       III      IV      V        VI
Period
Mar                               0.39      0.20             0.10   0.21
Apr                               0.58      0.61             0.19   0.41
May     1-10               0.70   0.59      0.79             0.28   0.58
11-20              0.70   0.58      0.80             0.36   0.65
21-31              0.70   0.55      0.76              0.47   0.73
Jun     1-10               0.70                              0.61   0.76
11-20              0.73                     0.24      0.75   0.82
21-30              0.74                     0.33      0.86   0.85
Jul     1-10               0.79                    0.44      0.94   0.88
11-20              0.86                     0.55      1.05   0.94
21-31              1.05                     0.67      1.11   0.96
Aug     1-10               1.22                     0.73     1.11   0.94
11-20              1.30                     0.80      1.05   0.88
21-31              1.30                     0.84      0.96   0.83
Sep     1-10               1.16                     0.93     0.83   0.73
11-20              0.85                     0.78     0.72   0.62
21-30              0.70                     0.67     0.61   0.53
Oct                        0.35                     0.43     0.41   0.37
Nov                        0.35                                      0.21
Crops by Type
Type    I:   Rice
Type   II:   Barley, Garlic, Winter Onion, Rape Seed, Naked Barley
Type  III:   White Potato, Springtime Vegetable
Type   IV:   Soybean, Sweet Potato, Autumnal Vegetable, Tobacco
Type    V:   Red Pepper
Type   VI:   Fruit Tree, Fodder
October 13, 1971



KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT   -   STAGE I
SUMMARY OF NORMAL DIVERSION DEMANDS FOR VARIOIIS STNSCREMES
Serviced     Cropped     Cropping                          Total Diversion Demands - M.3                                                For  Artal FDorTd
Area        Axon       Intensity                                                                                                                                       _____
ha            ha        I          Jan    Feb    Mar  Apr   May  Jun         Jol    Aug    Sep    Oct   Nov    Dea    Annual .                 T Fr
Pros   Tanks &      Pros      Stigation
-                - __Ö-                                                                                                   Reservoir   River   Reservoir   ad M & I
Jana Seeong Sbschene
(a) Neo  Lands                                     8,270       14,886         180       -       -      0    1.0    6.0   13.0    8.0    14.0   8.0    1.0    -        _       51.0         51.0
(b) Existing Land Under Tanks                      2,788       5,158          185       -       -      0    1.0    3.0    8.0    5.0      8.0   5.0      0    -       -       29.0           -         -           _
Now Partially Served by Tanks                                                        _      -      0    0.7    2.5    5.8    3.6      5.8   3.6       0    _      _        21.0           -      21.0
S.ppleaLentary R.quire,-.ent                                                         _      _      g    0-3 0-5    2.2    1.4         2.2   1.4       0    -      -         8.0         8.00
(c) Existing Land Under River Diversion            2,780        5,143         185       -       -      0    1.0    2.0    8.0    5.0      8.0   5.0       0    -      -       29.0           -         -
Nov Partially Served by River                                                                                                                                              28.0           -      28.0
Supplem.entary Requireme-t                                                                                                                                                  1.0          1.0       -
(d) M & I and Miscellaneous                                                                                                                                                   30.0 -O-                           3.0
Total:                  60.0     49.0         3.0         112.0
Dam Yang Subsoheme
(a) Nov Lands                                     3,809        6,856          180       -      -       0    0.5    2.8    6.0    3.7      6.5   3.7    0.5    -       -       24.0         24.0        -          -
(b) Eniating Lead Under Tanks                       489           904         185       -      -       0    0.2    0.4    1.4    0.9      1.4   0.9      0            -.0                    -         -          -
Nov Partially Served by Tanko                                                       -       -      0    0.1    0.2    0.9    0.5      0.9   0.5      0    -       -        3.0           -        3. 
Supplementary Requf ti, nt                                                          _      _       0    0.1    0.2    0.5    0.4      0.5   0.4      0    -       -        2.0          2.0        -
(o) Existing Land Under River Diversion           2,222        4,110          185       -      -       0    0.8    1.6    6.4    4.0      6.4   4.0      0    -       -       23.0           -         -
Nov Partially Served by River                                                                                                                                             21.0           -       21.0
Supplementary Requirement                                                                                                                                                  2.0          2.0        -
(d) M & I and Minel.laneous                                                                                                                                                   15.0 _e.0
Total:                  28.0     24.0         1.0          53.0
Rwang Jo Subschere
(a) New Lands                                     1,411         2,540         180       -      -       O    0.2    1.0    2.2    1.4      2.4   1.4    0.2    -       -       10.0         10.0        -          -
(b) Exieting Lands                                  143          264          185       -      -       0    0.1    0.1    0.4    0.3      0.4   0.3      0    -       _        2.0           -         -          -
Nov partially served by Tanks                                                       _       _      0      0      0    0.2    0.2      0.2   0.2       0    -1.                            -       1.0          -
Supplementary Requirement                                                           -      _       0      0      0    0.2    0.1      0.2   0.1      0                      1.0         1.0        - 
(a) Existing Land Under River Diversion             670        1,240          185       -      -       0    0.2    0.5    1.9    1.2      1.9   1.2      0    -       -        7.0           -         -
Nov Partially Served by River                                                                                                                                               5.0           -       5.0
Supplementary Requirement                                                                                                                                                   2.0         2.0        -
(d) M & I and Miscellaneous                                                                                                                                                    10.0          -         -         0.0
Total:                  13.0      6.0           0.         19.0
Dae Cho Subscherme
(a) Neo Land                                      7,000       12,600          180       -      -       0    0.8    5.0    9.0    6.8    10.0   6.8    0.8    -        -       39.0         390         -           -
(b) Existing LandUnder Tanks                      1,300         2,405         185       -       -      0    0.5    0.9    3.7    2.3      3.7   2.3       0    _      _        13.0           -        -
Row  Partially  Served by Tanks                                                     -       _      0    0.5    0.6    2.3    1.4      2.3   1.4       0    -      -         8.0
Supplementary Requirement                                                           -       -      0      0    0.3    1.4    0.9      1.4   0.9       0    -      -         5.0          5.0       -
(c) Rafating Land Under River Diversion           2,243        4,149          185       -      -       0    0.8    1.6    6.4    4.0      6.4   4.0       0    _      -        23.0          -         -
Now Partially Served by River                                                                                                                                              22.0           -      22.0
Supplementary Requirement                                                                                                                                                   1.0          1.0
(d) M & I and Miscellaneo.s                                                                                                                                                    25.6          1         -          0.0
Total:                  45.0     30.0         0O.          75.0
_          - 25         H
GRAND TOTAL:                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~146.0    109.0  4.0  259.0  9 
_~~~~~~~~~~' Io >



ANNEX 4
Table 10
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Analysis of Rainfed Drought Frequency Over 53 Years (1916 - 1969)
Number of years between 1916-1969
in which effective rainfall accounted
Critical Growth                for less than 50% of crop water
Crop                    Period                      requirement during critical growth
period 1/
At least one month   At least two
of shortage     months of shortage
Ö-----Ö(Number of Years)-----------
Upland winter       March through May                        33                 10
Upland summer        June through October                    39                 18
Rice                 June through September                  50                 39
1/ A 50% deficiency in water requirement in any
given month during the critical growth period
would generally cause a substantial reduction
in yield and possibly even a total crop loss.



KORRA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Cost Estimates
Unit  -  US $ Million
Subpro jects
Item                               Dam Yang                   Jang Seong                   Kwang Ju                   Dae Cho                Total for Project
Local     Foreign
Local Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign   Total    Total              Currency  Exchange
1.  Relocation of Road           1.20      -        1.20     0.40      0.60     1.00    0.10      0.20      0.30    0.10    0.10       0.20      2.70       1.80       0.90
2.  Dam, Spillway & Outlet       0.80    2.20      3.00      0.90      2.40     3.30    0.40      0.90      1.30    0.80    2.00       2.80     10.40       2.90       7.50
Works
3. Main Canal, & Laterals        1.20     1.80      3.00     3.00      4.90     7.90    0.40      0.50      0.90    1.40    1.90       3.30     15.10       6.00      9.10
4. Main Drainage System          0.50     0.40      0.90     0.60      0.60     1.20    0.10      0.10      0.20    0.60    0.50       1.10      3.40       1.80       1.60
5. Land Consolidation &
On-Farm Development        1.80     2.10      3.90     2.50      2.90     5.40    0.30      0.30      0.60    2.30    2.70       5.00     14.90       6.90       8.00
6.  Development of New Land      0.10     0.10      0.20     0.50      0.30     0.80    0.10       -        0.10    0.30    0.20       0.50      1.60       1.00       0.60
7. Acquisition of Right of
Way                        1.40       -       1.40     2.30       -       2.30    0.50       -        0.50    1.90       -       1.90      6.10       6.10        -
8. Link Canal-Jang Seong
to Dam Yang                0.60     1.10      1.70      -         -        -       -         -         -        -       -         -        1.70       0.60       1.10
9.  Lime Application             0.20       -       0.20     0.20       -       0.20      -        -          -      0.20      -       0.20       0.60      0.60        -
Sub-Total                  7.80     7.70    15.50    10.40    11.70    22.10    1.90        2.00      3.90    7.60    7.40    15.00       56.50      27.70      28,80
10.  0 & M during Construction                                                                                                                      .30       .20        .10
11. Administration &
Engineering                                                                                                                                 5.40      3.00       2.40
12. Consultant Services &
Training                                                                                                                                    1.90      0.30       1.60
Sub-Total                                                                                                                                  64.10     31.20      32.90
13.  Contingencies (Technical)                                                                                                                     8.20      3.60       4.60
14. Contingencies
(Price Escalation)                                                                                                                         12.90      5.80       7.10
Total                                                                                                                                      85.20     40.60      44.60
15.  Interest during
Construction                                                                                                                                3.40       -         3.40
88.60     40.60      48.00 , ,
Grand Total
July, 1971



ANNEX 5
Table 2
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Computation of Foreign Exchange Component
Foreign
Estimated    Exchange
Total Cost   Cormnonent
---rr (tys$ Miffion)}----
Civil Works
1.  Relocation of roads                                             2.7          0.9
2.  Dams, spillways and outlet works                               10.4          7.5
3.  Main canals and laterals                                       15.1          9.1
4.  Main drainage systems                                           3.4          1.6
5.  Land consolidation and on-farm development                     14.9          8.0
6.  Reclamation of nsw land                                         1.6          0.6
7.  Link canal (Jang Seong-Dam Yang)                                1.7          1.1
8.  0 & M durirg construction                                       0.3          0.1
9.  Engineering and administration                                  5.4          2.4
Sub-total                                       55.5         31.3
Less equipment, materials and supplies (see below)           12.4        10.7
Total                                           43.1         20.6
Equipment, Materials and Supplies
1.  Cement                                                          3.8          2.4
2.  Steel (reinforcing and other)                                   3.6          3.4
3.  Lumber and timber                                               4,0          3.9
4.  Vehicles and miscellaneous                                      1.0          1.0
12.4        10.7
Consultant Services and Overseas Training                           1.9          1.6
Unallocated
1.  Contingencies                                                  21.1         11.7
2.  Interest during construction                                    3.4          3.4
September, 1971



ANNEX 6
Table 1
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total Cost    1972    1973    1974   1975   1976
Civil Works                                            (US $ million)
A.  Dam Yang
1.  Relocation of road                  1.2          0.4      0.8      -       -      -
2.  Dam                                 3.0          0.2      0.7      1.0    0.9    0.2
3.  Main canal                          3.0           -       0.5      1.0    1.0    0.5
4.  Main drainage                       0.9           -       0.1      0.3    0.3    0.2
5. Land consolidation &
on-farm development               3.9          -        0.6      1.1    1.1    1.1
6.  Development of new land             0.2           -       -        0.2    -        -
7.  Acquisition of right-of-way         1.4           0.6     0.4      0.4    -        -
8.  Link canal                          1.7           -       -        -       0.9    0.8
9.  Lime application                    0.2           -                        -       0.2
Sub-total                        15.5          1.2      3.1      4.0   4.2    3.0
B.  Jang Seong
1.  Relocation of road                  1.0          0.3      0.7      -       -       -
2.  Dam                                 3.3          0.2      0.9      1.0    1.0    0.2
3.  Main canal                          7.9           -       1.4      2.6    2.6    1.3
4.  Main drainage system                 1.2          -       0.2      0.4    0.4    0.2
5. Land consolidation &
on-farm development               5.4          -        0.8      1.5    1.5    1.6
6.  Development of new land             0.8           -       0.2      0.3    0.3    -
7.  Acquisition of right-of-way         2.3           0.9     0.7      0.7    -        -
8.  Lime applieaticn                    0.2           -       -        -       -       0.2
Sub-total                        22,1          1.4      4.9     6.5    5.8    3.5
C.  Kwang Ju
1.  Relocation of road                  0.3          0.1      0.2      -       -       -
2.  Dam                                 1.3           -       0.3      0.5    0.5    -
3.  Main canal                          0.9           -       -        0.3    0.4    0.2
4.  Main drainage system                0.2           -       -        0.2    -        -
5.  Land consolidation                  0.6           -       -        0.2    0.2    0.2
6.  Development of new land             0.1           -       0.1      -       -       -
7.  Acquisition of right-of-way         0.5           0.2     0.2      0.1    -        -
8.  Lime application                    -             -       -        -       -       -
Sub-total                         3.9          0.3      0.8     1.3    1.1    0.4
D.  Dae Cho
1.  Relocation of road                  0.2           -       0.2      -       -       -
2.  Dam                                 2.8           -       0.4      0.9    0.9    0.6
3.  Main canal                          3.3           -       0.5      0.9    0.9    1.0
4.  Main drainage                        1.1          -       0.2      0.3    0.3    0.3
5. Land consolidation &
on-farm development               5.0          -        0.7      1.5    1.4    1.4
6.  Development of new land             0.5           -       0.2      0.2    0.1    -
7.  Acquisition of right-of-way          1.9          0.8     0.6      0.5    -        -
8.  Lime application                    0.2           -       -                -       0.2
Sub-total                       15.0           0.8      2.8     4.3    3.6    3.5
Total Civil Works               56.5           3.7    11.6    16.1   14.7   10.4
Other Costs
E.  0 & M during construction                0.3          -        -        0.2    0.1    -
F.  Admin., Eng., supervision                5.4          0.4      1.1      1.5    1.4    1.0
G.  Consulting Services and
Training                          1.9          0.3      0.6      0.6    0.3    0.1
Sub-total                       64.1           4.4    13.3    18.4   16.5   11.5
H.  Contingency (Tech.)                      8.2          0.6      1.6      2.3    2.1    1.6
Sub-total                       72.3           5.0    14.9    20.7   18.6   13.1
I.  Price contingency                       12.9          0.4      1.8      3.5    3.7    3.5
Sub-total                       85.2           5.4    16.7    24.2'  22.3   16.6
J.  Interest during construction            3.4
Total                           88.6



ANNEX 6
Table 2
KOREA
YCNG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                             Cumulative Disbursement at
and Quarter                                  end of Quarter -  US $ million
1972/73                                           IDA              Bank
September 30, 1972                              0.3
December 31, 1972                               1.0               0.1
March 31, 1973                                  2.2
June 30, 1973                                   3.5               0.2
1973/74
September 30, 1973                              4.9
December 31, 1973                               6.3             0.4
March 31, 1974                                  8.9
June 30, 1974                                  11.9              0.5
1974/75
September 30, 1974                             14.4
December 31, 1974                              15.0              2.1
March 31, 1975                                                   5.2
June 30, 1975                                                    9.4
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                             12.6
December 31, 1975                                               l5.9
March 31, 1976                                                  19.2
June 30, 1976                                                   22.5
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                              25.5
December 31, 1976                                               28.5
March 31, 1977                                                  31.0
June 30, 1977                                                   33.0



ANNEX 7
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT -STAGE I
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION DURING CONSTRUCTION
PROVI~~~~~~~~~~~~ A.""||"
COORDINATING  |
l  COMMITTEE|
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U
PROVINCIAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BRANCH  ETAIONY
LAND                          P ROJECT
F  IMPR*OVEMtENT      _MhANAGER
|  ASSOCIATIONS                      ADC
_
15RD -592R






ANNEX 8
Page I
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Consultant Services
1.        ADC would employ a consulting firm to assist with project implemen-
tation and to prepare a feasibility study for Stage II. The consultants would
assist ADC in carrying out the following activities:
(a) review of the plan proposed for the project and perform ad-
ditional studies as required;
(b) preparation of final designs, specifications and cost esti-
mates;
(c) preparation of tender documents and contracts and evaluation
of bids;
(d) supervision of construction and certification of payment to
contractors;
(e) inspection and acceptance of equipment and materials purchased
for project use;
(f) establishing and equipping a project operation and maintenance
unit and develop methods and procedures for this purpose;
(g) establish a program for applied research on agricultural
practices and water use and the provision of effective ex-
tension assistance to the farmers;
(h) training of ADC staff assigned to the project;
(i) preparation of progress reports as required, and setting
up project accounts; and
(j) surveys, studies and planning, leading to preparation of a
feasibility study for Stage II of the project.
2.        The proposed composition of the consultant team and the estimated
duration of assignment are outlined below:



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Consultant Staff                      Man-Years
Project Manager                           5
Irrigation and Drainage Engineer          4
Hydrologist                               3
Mechanical Engineer                       2
Soil Scientist                            3
Agricultural Economist                    3
Agronomist                                3
Computer Programmer                       2
Engineer (Dams)                           4
Specialist (Contract Administration)    2
31
3.        Short-term consultants for periods of 1 to 3 months would be re-
cruited as required to perform special work or act as senior advisors.
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 9
Page   1
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT, STAGE I
Coordination of Various Agricultural Services
Present Status of Inter-Agency Coordination
1.        Under the overall coordination and supervision of MAF, the
various agricultural agencies operate more or less independently through
their own channels of "national-provincial-county-district" offices.  Their
functions are described in Annex 10. Thus, ORD, through extension services,
advises farmers on the use of varieties and farm inputs but it is up to the
farmers to decide the amount of inputs they wish to buy and credit to obtain
through the cooperatives. In other words, ORD is not directly concerned
with the preparation of the farm plans on the basis of which NACF appraises
farmers credit requirements. The agricultural staff employed by the LIA's
have fairly close contacts with and obtain extension information from the
county ORD extension officers, but are not involved in acquisition of inputs
and credit by farmers, because the latter is the function of the village
(Li-Dong) cooperatives.
seed for Closer Coordination in Project Implementation
2.        To achieve full development in the project area within five years
after the completion of construction would require a closer coordination
among the various agencies than before. For overall coordination at the
national level, the Project Coordinating Committee, similar to the one in
existence for the Pyongtaek-Kumgang project (Loan 600-KO), would be
established by MAF.
3.        At the operational level, this coordination would be accomplished
as follows:
(a) the agricultural staff of ADC would provide maps
and inform ORD in detail on the improvements to be
made in the project area on land consolidation, on-farm
development, irrigation, drainage and roads; and the
schedule for completion of construction in various parts
of the subproject areas. It would also discuss with
ORD the proposed changes in the cropping pattern for different
parts of the project and the rate at which such changes
should be introduced. It would then follow up and see
that ORD initiates and properly carries out the necessary
work;
(b) ORD would prepare new extension material designed
specifically for cultivation of various crops under



ANNEX 9
Page 2
irrigation and double cropping. It would also conduct
demonstration programs on improved farming practices, conduct
training courses for county extension officers and
LIA agricultural staff, multiply and supply foundation
and first multiplication seeds required by the project,
and conduct extension sessions at village levels. In
view of the rather short development period, the
introduction of better varieties and increased inputs
would need intensive promotion;
(c) since all the land would be either consolidated or
terraced, provided with irrigation and drainage, and
limed to the desired pH level, the physical variation
among individual farms would be significantly reduced.
A farm plan prepared for a given crop rotation would be
applicable to a larger area than before. Responsibility
for preparation of farm plans, including input requirements,
would become part of the extension program. NACF and ORD
would cooperate in this effort;
(d) using these farm plans, NACF would estimate the total input
and credit requirement of the project and make timely
arrangement for their supply;
(e) at the village level, the INACF's activities would be
carried through the Li-Dong Cooperatives while ORD's
activities would be assisted by the Agricultural staff
of LIA's; and
(f) at all times, the agricultural staff of the ADC
field office would keep in close touch with the other
agencies and see that each step of the work is carried
out properly. In addition, they would monitor the
project farm income data which would be used to evaluate
project benefits.
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 10
Page 1
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Supporting Agricultural Services
Present Status
1.        The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) effectively
supervises all agriculture services in the country. Each provincial
government hlas an Agriculture and Forestry Bureau which administers MAF
functions in the province. The main agencies which would serve the
proposed project, apart from ADC, are the Office of Rural Development
(ORD) and the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF).
Research and Extension
2.        ORD is in charge of research, extension, and training.  The
following agencies of ORD are located at its headquarters in Suwon, 25 km
south of Seoul:
The ORD Headquarters;
Crop Improvement Station (breeding and agronomy of field
crops);
Horticultural Research Institute (vegetables and fruits);
Institute of Plant Environment (soil survey, fertilizers,
liming and pest control);
Guidance Bureau (Extension);
Training Bureau (for extension workers); and
Farm Machinery Training Center.
The research institutes and the Guidance Bureau are staffed adequately.
3.        Each province has a provincial ORD which carries out local ex-
perimentation, field demonstrations, multiplication of foundation seeds
and extension, and each county (GUN) has one or two branch offices.
Workers in these offices form the main force of agricultural extension in
Korea.
4.        The experimental and demonstration results are well documented.
Extension pamphlets and posters are adequate for current extension needs
of rice under irrigation or rainfed and barley and other major crops
under rainfed conditions. The six counties included in the project area
have 206 extension workers to serve about 110,000 ha of farms, averaging
about one worker to 530 ha. The existing extension system works satis-
factorily as is evidenced by the relatively high yield levels even
under existing rainfed conditions.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
5.        On existing irrigation projects the farmers are organized in
Land Improvement Associations (LIA's). These associations cover about
12,500 ha in the project area and employ 27 agricultural workers who
receive extension information from the county ORD but work exclusively
with the LIA members.
Farmers' Organization
6.        The main farmerst organization of Korea consists of multipurpose
agricultural cooperatives. Almost all supplies of inputs and credit
originating from Government resources are rendered through the cooperative
system which also handles marketing of a number of crops. Ninety-three
percent of Korean farmers are members of cooperatives.
7.        The village (Li-dong) cooperatives, which may cover one to
several villages, are primary societies grouped into county (Gun) Agri-
cultural Cooperative Federations, and successively into provincial and
National Agricultural Cooperative Federations (NACF). Special horticul-
tural or livestock cooperatives are organized by vegetable/fruit growers
and livestock producers.
8.        Although NACF is the apex of the rural cooperatives, it actually
functions as a Government trading and banking agency. The president
of NACF is appointed by the President of Korea, and the managers of the
provincial NACF and county cooperatives are in turn appointed by the
NACF president. NACF and the cooperatives are basically farmers' organiza-
tions through which the Government effectively channels inputs and credit
and assists them in marketing farm products. The cooperatives also serve
the farmers to make their needs known to Government.
Supply of Seeds
9.        The Jeonla Nam Do Provincial ORD multiplies foundation and first
multiplication seeds, which farmers generally barter for at a 1:1 ratio,
or buy at the price of common seeds. The seeds multiplied under this
system include rice, barley, wheat, soybean, and sweet potatoes. The
Provincial Government is responsible for distributing the rice and
barley seeds through the NACF/Cooperative network. NACF directly buys
and supplies a wide range of other seeds, while farmers supplement seeds
not provided by Government. So far, seed supply has not been a serious
constraint to crop production.
Supply of Other Inputs
10.       Fertilizers are supplied solely by NACF.  MAF estimates annual
demand of fertilizers for each province; NACF advances funds for their
purchase (either from local factories or import) and then contracts the
Korean Transportation Corporation to ship them to warehouses of the County
(Gun) NACF. In the six counties covering the project area NACF has a total
of 142 warehouses with a total capacity of 25,000 tons. NACF also rents
private warehouses wlhen needed. The average distance farmers have to



ANNEX 10
Page 3
travel to the nearest NACF warehouse is about 2 km. About half of the
fertilizers are sold for cash and the other half on short term credit
basis. Farmers can buy unlimited amounts. Pesticides are bought from
either the County NACF warehouse on a cash basis or from private dealers
who operate small stores in the villages. The system of supplying lime
is described in Annex 1.
11.       In 1970, the Jeonla Nam Do Provincial NACF through its 21
county offices supplied a total of Won 5,900 million worth of fertilizers
and lime, Won 815 million of agricultural chemicals, Won 304 million of
farm implements, Won 185 million of seeds (Including potatoes), Won 236
million of farm material, and Won 76 million of miscellaneous items, for
a total value of about Won 7,500 million. Additional amounts supplied
by the six county NACF's are not known but it may safely be said that the
system of supplying farm inputs has been generally effective.
Supply of Credit
12.       Agricultural credit is also channeled through NACF. The two
major sources are NACF's own resources, which include farmers' deposits
with cooperatives and borrowings from the Bank of Korea, and Government
loans for specific programs.
13.       N'ACF's short term loans are for one year at 15% interest per
annum, while medium term loans are for 1-5 years at 9% interest per
annum. The maximum amount that a family can borrow without security is
determined by NACF appraisal against individual applications, but the
absolute maximum is Won 300,000 for short term loans and Won 75,000 for
medium term loans. Security in the form of fixed assets is required for
amounts beyond these limits. For loans without security, a guarantee from
other farmers (group guarantee) is required.
14.       NACF loans in Jeonla Nam Do Province, including those to farmers
and cooperatives or agencies, have been increasing rapidly in recent
years:
Annual Growth
Year           Short Term      Medium Term      Total        1968 = 100
---- Million Won -----------
1968             3,099            1,040         4,139           100
1969            3,167             3,797         6,964           168
1970            4,386             4,342         8,728           211
1971 (plan)     4,959             5,521        10,480           253



ANNEX 10
Page 4
15.       NACF's short term loans meet about 50% of farmers' needs.  The
balance is provided by private money lenders at 40-50% interest per annum.
In 1969 NACF provided about Won 8,000 of short term credit per household
and about Won 5,500 worth of fertilizers on credit, or a total of Won 13,500
per household. This is equivalent to about 27% of the production cost of
an average household (about Won 50,000). Moreover, because of the overall
shortage of funds, small farmers are usually left out because of their
failure to put up security or obtain group guarantees.
16.       The net amount of overdue NACF loans for Korea has increased from
Won 3,285 million in 1965 to Won 7,725 million in 1969, but the percentage
of total outstanding loans overdue has decreased from 15.7% to 9.2% during
the same period. The debt considered uncollectable has increased from
Won 3 million to Won 10 million during this period, but as a percentage of
total outstanding loans it has been reduced from 0.016% to 0.012%. The
percentage of defaulting borrowers, however, is higher than that of default
in terms of money, since the higher rate is among farmers who received
small loans.
Improvements Needed for Project Implementation
Research
17.       The current research program of ORD has two major shortcomings
from the viewpoint of project implementation:
(a) experiments and extension material on irrigation of
upland crops are almost totally lacking, although
some farmers in the project area have individually
accumulated experience in irrigating vegetables and
fruit trees with shallow wells; and
(b) experimental data on mechanized farming, either with
tractors or with power tillers are limited and
inadequate.
18.       Under the project ORD would conduct irrigation experiments on
upland crops. The Guidance Bureau of ORD would also conduct a survey of
the existing irrigation practices of farmers in order to supplement the
experimental results. Trials on the use of tractors, power tillers and
equipment would be continued at ORD's headquarters in Suwon, and would
be supplemented by ADC's farm machinery program under the Pyongtaek-Kumgang
project (600-KO).
Extension
19.       The number of ORD extension workers in the project area would
be increased from 60 to 125 by 1976. This would bring the ratio of ORD
workers to about 1 for each 260 ha. Moreover, when the project construc-
tion is completed, the entire 33,000 ha would be organized into LIA's.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
Assuming the existing ratio of agricultural workers to cultivated land is
maintained, the LIA's would have about 70 agricultural workers in the
future, as compared to 27 workers for 12,600 ha at present.
20.       New extension work items to be emphasized would include
irrigation and drainage practices; proper dosage of lime; use of power
tillers, power sprayers, semiautomatic thresher and farm equipment; and
production of high value vegetables and fruits. New extension material
would be prepared by ORD specifically for irrigated double cropping on
consolidated paddies and terraced uplands. ADC agricultural staff would
keep ORD informed on the progress of project implementation and the
needs for extension assistance. ORD would conduct training courses for
extension workers and LIA's agricultural staff in the project area.
21.       As under Loan 600-KO, a 10-year plan for agricultural develop-
ment and the associated extension program on the project would be
prepared by ADC.
Seeds
22.       A feasibility study for a seed project for Korea is being
prepared by consultants under Loan 600-KO. When the new seed multiplica-
tion and distribution system is established, it would be applied in the
Yong San Gang project area, among others.
Other Inputs
3.        Higher rates of application of fertilizers and pesticides than
those in present use would be tested and demonstrated to the farmers.
ADC agricultural staff would work closely with ORD to coordinate the
demonstration and extension work and with NACF to ensure the timely supply
of inputs.
Credit
24.       The average production cost per household under the project is
estimated to increase to about 2.5 times the present level or from
Won 50,000 to about Won 125,000. If the same ratio of production cost
to NACF borrowing (27%) is maintained, each household would need an
average loan of Won 33,750. The annual short term credit need of the
45,000 farm families in the project area would thus amount to about Won
1,500 million. By comparison, loans granted for all purposes by NACF and
its member cooperatives in Korea during 1969, including short and medium
term credit to farmers, cooperatives, and agencies totalled Won 152,000
million.
Power Tillers and Equipment
25.       The project area has an extremely low population of draft
animals, averaging one animal to 5 ha. As a result of rapid migration of
rural people to cities and the increase in farm labor wages, mechan.ization



ANNEX 10
Page 6
is making rapid inroads into rural Korea. In the six project counties,
farmers now own 4,500 power tillers, 880 motor sprayers, 1,270 motor
threshers and about 1,000 trailers. NACF provides medium term loans to
farmers for farm machinery and equipment, but the available funds have
so far been unable to cope with the growing need. Government announced
a mechanization loan program in May 1971 under which NACF would receive
funds to finance the purchase of power tillers and other farm machinery,
with a 24% down payment and a five-year loan at 9% interest per annum to
cover the remaining cost. The entire program is estimated to cost Won 18.5
billion (about US$60 million), including US$15 million yet to be arranged
in foreign loans.
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 11
Page 1
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Marketing
Present Marketing System
1.        Korea has basically a free marketing system for agricultural prod-
ucts, although MAF operates, through the Provincial Government and NACF, an
Agricultural and Fishery Price Stabilization Fund to support farm prices of
foodgrains and a few other crops. Cooperatives, under NACF management, play
an active role in marketing vegetables and fruits to distributors in the
large cities.
2.        Under the Price Stabilization Fund program, rice, barley and wheat
are the responsibility of the Provincial Government, but the purchase is done
thirough NACF and its cooperatives. After the purchase, the County office
stores the grain in warehouses owned by NACF, private traders and Korean
Transportation Corporation. The total amount of summer grain (mainly rice)
and fall grain (barley and wheat) purchased and collected by Government in
Jeonla Nam Do Province amounted to 75,600 tons and 77,000 tons respectively
irn 1969. This equals about 11% of the province's rice production and 12% of
tlae barley production in that year.
3.        NACF's purchases under the program throughout Korea in 1970
amounted to 4,800 tons of rape seeds, 2,800 tons of malt barley, 1,200 tons
of flax, 60 tons of ramie and 190,000 tons of sweet potato. The total cost
of these purchases was at a total cost of W 5,638 million.
4.        All NACF purchases were made through the cooperative markets.
Each county has 10 to 20 such markets in several districts (Myon), each dis-
trict having one or two markets operated by the cooperatives under the super-
vision of the county NACF staff. The markets are open for business once
every five days. Farmers send their products to the markets and are free
to sell to private traders with payment being made, at times, several days
later. If they sell to NACF at the fixed prices they receive cash payment
immediately. NACF stores the products in its warehouses while sales arrange-
ments are being made and later sells rape seed to private oil mills, sweet
potatoes to wine factories, malt barley to beer factories, and fiber crops
to textile or cordage mills.
5.        Vegetables and fruits are brought to the same markets.  NACF
advances 80% of the estimated price and auctions the produce to wholesalers
immediately. Products in the project area are bought mainly by wholesalers
from Seoul, Pusan and Kwanju cities. Accounts are cleared with member far-
mers after the sales. The NACF headquarters in Seoul, through its Marketing
Survey Department, has daily telephone communication with its offices in



ANNEX 11
Page 2
other large cities, e.g. Pusan, Kwanju, Ta-Ju and Ta-Jean, which, in turn,
monitor daily prices and the supply situation of the perishable products
through the cooperative markets managed by various county NACF's.
6.        Some large wholesalers buy fruits and vegetables in the field
before harvest and advance partial payment to farmers. Later they harvest
the crop themselves and clear the final account with farmers. About 40% of
the horticultural crops are bought under this arrangement and 60% through the
cooperatives.
7.        Two cold storage warehouses, mainly for onions and garlic, have
been built in recent years in Mu An County by the County Office and an Agri-
cultural and Fishery Community Development Association. NACF has no cold
storage facilities at present, but has plans to build one in the project
area in the near future. The lack of cold storage forces NACF to auction
off all perishable products at each market day. The numerous cooperative
markets already in active operation provide a strong base for receiving
and marketing the increased amount of high value crops to be produced in the
project area in the future.
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 12
Page   1
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT, STAGE I
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns
Present Cropping Pattern
1.        In 1969 Jeonla Nam Do Province produced 18% of Korea's total
rice crop, 25% of barley, 50% of rape seed, 27% of potato, and almost the
entire crop of mat rush (for making straw mats). In comparison with
provinces further north, it has a milder winter and a longer growing
season. This combination gives the area a good potential for double
cropping and crop diversification. On the other hand, the Province has
the highest drought frequency and is among the highest in soil acidity
in the nation.
2.        Frequent droughts cause large fluctuations in the rainfed rice
area harvested each year. This is also the case in areas presently
receiving partial irrigation. Barley is the main winter crop grown under
rainfed conditions. The shortage of both man and animal labor further
limits farmers from growing labor intensive crops.
,.        The typical cropping pattern is rice in the summer, followed by
barley in the winter on paddy land, and assorted summer crops followed by
barley on upland. Among the upland summer crops, soybean has the largest
area, followed by sweet potatoes. Orchards have limited areas at present
amd are found mostly on the south side of hills with gentle slopes.
4.        The upland in the project area is fully double-cropped or
planted to orchards, bamboo, mulberries or fodder crops. About one-third
of the paddy fields are fallow each year. The overall cropping intensity
is 160%. The potential for crop diversification is demonstrated by the
wide range of high value vegetable crops being grown in limited areas
where farmers have an irrigation supply.
Present Crop Yield
5.        The large unplanted or unharvested area of paddy depresses the
average rice yield per ha. When calculated on the basis of total paddy
land area, instead of harvested area, the present rice yield (white) in
the project area is 2.4 tons per ha. for the rainfed fields and 2.8 tons
per ha. for the partially irrigated fields.
6.        The present yields of barley and other upland crops are limited
by both the lack of irrigation and the high soil acidity. Large variations
in crop growth may be seen in fields with better or less favorable natural
soil moisture conditions due to differences in topography, and prebumably



ANNEX 12
Page 2
also to differences in soil acidity. For barley and most other winter
and spring upland crops, the yield is largely dependent on moisture
conditions in April and May. Farmers who use lime and irrigate their
land during the dry spring months report doubling or even tripling of
yields. Present crop yield levels are given in Table 1.
7.        New improved varieties would continue to be extended, and use
of fertilizers and pesticides further increased, but the resultant yield
increment would not be as great as in other parts of Asia, because the
use of improved varieties and agricultural chemicals is already prevalent
among Korean farmers.
Future Cropping Pattern
8.        Under the project, the element of drought would be removed from
the rice crop. Supplementary irrigation would be supplied to the fall/spring
planted upland crops, as well as to the summer crops on the upland. Ir-
rigation to individual land parcels and improvement of drainage would be
made possible by land consolidation and on-farm development. Soil acidity
would be corrected by liming. Labor and animal shortage would be met by
use of power tillers, sprayers and threshers.
9.        With the above improvements, the following changes in cropping
pattern in the project area are projected:
(a) the irrigated rice area would be increased from
12,600 ha to 24,000 ha;
(b) the barley area would be reduced from 20,000 ha
to 13,000 ha;
(c)  other high value winter crops on paddy and upland
fields would be increased to about 17,000 ha. Among
these crops, the important ones include garlic, onion,
red pepper, potatoes, Chinese cabbage and mat rush;
(d) orchard and other perennial crops would be increased from
450 ha to 1,200 ha;
(e) 2,250 ha of woodland (pine) would be reclaimed for upland
crops, orchards and pasture; and
(f) the overall crop intensity would be increased to 182%.
Future Crop Yield
10.       Witlh full irrigation and increased use of inputs it is estimated
the rice yield would increase to 4.2 tons per ha at full development.
lhis yield level is projected on the following basis:



ANNJ'X 12
Page 3
(a)  yields of 4.5 tons per ha are common in experiments,
field trials and in numerous demonstrations
on farmers' fields with existing varieties, when
supplementary irrigation is provided, together with
proper rates of fertilizer and pesticides;
(b) a 20% reduction from yields obtained in trial and
demonstration field is applied for projecting yield
levels obtainable by farmers under present conditions.
This reduces the yield level to 3.6 tons per ha; and
(c) an increase of 3% per year or a total of 15% over a
five-year period due to the adoption of the following
additional improvements:
(i) introduction of new varieties with greater
resistance to lodging and diseases;
(ii) deeper plowing by use of power tillers;
(iii) improvement of drainage; and
(iv) proper dosage of lime.
11.       Irrigation research for upland crops has not been conducted in
,orea. Future yield projections for upland crops are based on yield
levels already obtained by farmers on fields with favorable natural soil
;oisture conditions (barley), or on fields irrigated by shallow wells
(vegetables and fruits). Yield levels of the same crops in Japan and Taiwan
under irrigation were also used as a reference. The projected cropping
pattern and estimated yields with full development are presented in
Table 2.
October 13, 1971






KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Present Cropping Pattern Y
Crop Area Yield  Farm-Gate  Gross Vqlue  Production  Net Value  Net Returns fromn
)7 '    aon/h51)  Prices       of          Costs         of         Project Area
(won/ton)  Production                 Production  (won million)
--------   (won '000/hn-)-
Rice:
Partial Irrig-
ation   12,600      2.8    94,000       263          100           163         2,05
(56,ooo)    (157)                       (57)         (718)
Rainfed          11,600     2.)4    94,000       226           89           137        1,589
(56,000)    (134)                       (45)         (522)
Barley                20,000      2.2    44.,0o0       97           79            18           360
(22,000)      (h8)                     (-31)        (-620)
Chinese Cabbage        1,600    12.0   1,000         180          124            56            90
Sweet Potato           1,500    15.0    15,000        225           84           141           212
White Potato             800    10.0    17,000        170          101            69            5
Rape Seed                600      1.3    65,000        85           69            16            10
Others 2/              1,800       -        -          -             -            88           158
14, 52 8
Total       50,500                                                                 (1,145)a
Cropping Intensity 3/  163%
1/  All prices expressed at  1971   market values;  fig.ures in parentheses indicate adjustments made
for the purpose of economic analysis. (See Annex 14 for details).
2/  Mainly  soybeans, orchards, veFetables and fodder crops
3/ Based on e net area of 31,000 ha which excludes about 2,000 ha of forest land



KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Projected Cropping Patter S
Crop Area    Yield    Farm-Gate   Gross Value  Production   Net Value         Net Returns
Prices         of          Costs  2/       of            from
(ha)       (ton/ha) lwon/ton)    Production                   Production   Project Area
--     -(Won  00O/ha)-         --------  (Won million)
Rice                         24,000       4.2       94,000         395         134           261           6,264
(56,OOO)      (235)                     (101)         (2,424)
3arley                       13,000       3.0       44,000         132          90            42              546
(22,000)        (66)                    (-24)           (-312)
l4hite Potato                 6,000      16.0       17,000         272         160           112              672
Sweet Potato                  4,000      23.0       15,000         345         139           206              824
Chinese Cabbage               3,000      28.0       15,000         420         216           204              612
Rape Seed                     2,000       2.5       65,o0o         163         100            63              126
Orchards                      1,200        -           -           866         348           518              622
Garlic                        ],200       9.0      165,000       1,ll85        300        1,185            1,422
Onion                           600      30.0       35,000       1,050         214           836              502
Others  3/                    5,000        -         -             -            -            -                633
Total         60,000                                                                        12,223
(7,525)
Cropping Intensity 4/ 182%                                                                                               - 
1/ All prices exnressed at  1971  market values; fiures in parenthesee lndi.te adj!stment,s  ?de for t'rie
puroose of economic analysis (see Annex 14 fo:r details)
2/ For details see Table 3 in Annex 12.
3/ Mainly soybean, red pepper, vegetables and fodder crops
BT/ Based on a net area of 33,000 ha which cinAuee^> ?,1e ha Or ce  refs            v,



KOREA'
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PR.OJT - STAGE I
Production Costs at Full DevelomaLnt
1/       2/       3/
Seeds     Fertilizers    Pestic des   Machinery    Labor  Others  Total   Total exc.
Labor
-----------------------------------(won/ha)----------------------------------------
Rice                 2,300        11,400          6,ooo       57,000      43,000 1,000  133,700  90,700
Barley               2,9C0        10,000          3,300       30,000       33,000 11,000   90,200  57,200
White Potato        30,500          8,800         2,200       5h,000       h9,000 16,000  160,500 111,500
Sweet Potato         7,000        11,000          1,100       54,000      49,000 17,000 .139,100  90,100
Chinese Cabbage    42,000         33,000          5,500       63,000       55,000 17,000  215,500 160,500
Rape Seed              500         9,900          4,400       22,0C0      48,000 14,000   98,800  50,0co
Orchards  4/           -          15,400         h1,800       66,000     1L7,000 78,000  348,200 201,200
Garlic             120,700        14,100          2,200       63,000       78,000 24,000  302,000 224,000
Onion               22,000        15,400          4,hoo       63,000       86,000 23,000  213,800 127,800
1/  Based cn the use of power tillers for land preparation and
transportation, semi-automatic threshers, power sprayers and dusters.
' c
2/  Labor costs consist of both famlly and hired labor.  Based on existing                                        x
pattern it was assuned that half the labor requirement would be provided                                      H
by male workers at the rate of won 650 per 10 hours working day and the
balance by female workers at won 430 per day or an average rate of
won 540 per wor'Cing dey.  All expenses for machine operators have been
included under machinery costs.
2/ Mainly materials, farm implemer.ts, lime and farm -'anure.
hi  Based on the weighted averaEe of an equal area of pears, peaches and grapes.  Other costs include farm
manure won 11,000; materials won 37,000; farm implements won 16,000; lime won 4,000 and misc. won 6,000.






KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Farm Budget for Typical 0.3 ha Farms
Present Conditions                            Full Development
Crop                       Area  Production  Gross Value  Production    Area  Production  Gross Value   Production
of          Costs 1/                          of           Costs 1/
Production                                    Production
Tha)     (Fg)     ---      - Won)----         Tha)               --V ------WonT------
Rice                       0.22      572         53,800      6,000       0.22       924         86,800       16,100
Barley                     0.20     440          19,400      6,400       0.12       360         15,800        4,300
Miscellaneous vegetables   0.04     500           7,700      1,800       0.12    2,560          40,400       13,300
Others                     0.04      -            7,100      1,500       0.10       _           56,500       14.600
0-36                75.,000      15:700       0.56                      548,30
Present Conditions                            Full  Dveloment
(Won)                                          (Won)
Gross value of production                           88,000                                         199,500
Less production costs                           15,700                                          48,300
Less other expenditures  /                       3,000                                           7,350
Farm Inccue                                         69,3143,850
Less project charges  /                          2,300                                          11,850
Net Income from Farming                             67s000                                         132,000
plus income from non-farming activities 4/      68,                                            134o000
Total Farm Income                                  135,000                                          266,000
Incremental Farm Income                                     Won 131,000
1/  Excluding the cost of family labor which at present amounts to about 84% of total labor requirements.                    CD
The number of mn-days to be contributed by family labor at full development was assumed to remain at                     1!
the present level and all increases in labor requirements to be met either through hiring additional
labor or mechanization.
#  Under present conditions,mainly taxes and public charges (Won 1,400) and interest on short term loans
(Won 1,600).
3/ Project charges under present conditions represent the pro-rated cost of operation, maintenance and
capital recovery in the partially irrigated lands.
v  Based on country wide income projections, earning from non-farming activities were assumed to increase
at 7% per year.



KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Farm Budget for Typical 0.7 ha Farms
Present Conditions                             Full Development
Crop                       Area  Production  Gross Value  Production    Area  Production  Gross Value  Production
of         Costs 1/                           of            Costs 1/
Production                                     Production
(ha)     (Kg)     -~~------(W on)______-_    (Eha)                ---------(Won)- T____
Rice                        0.52    1,350        126,900       17,300       0.52   2,180         2044,900     41l,200
Barley                      0.46    1,010         44,400       16,800       0.27      810        35,600       10,700
Miscellaneous vegetables   0.10    1,260          19,200        5,200       0.27   5,690          90,200      31,100
Others                      0.08                  14,200        3500        0.23      -         130,000      -34.8oo
1.16                 204,700                    1.29                460.700      117,800
Present Conditions                             Full Devel2paent
(Won)                                          (Won)
Gross value of production                             204,700                                         460,700
Less production costs 2/                          42,800                                        117,800
Less other expenditure-                            5,300                                         10,500
Farm Income               3/                                                                         332,400
Less project charges3/                             5.600                                         27,400
Net Income from Farming                               151,000                                         305,006
plus Income from Non-farming Activities 4/        46,oo0                                         90,000
Total Farm Income                                     197,000                                        395,000
Incremental Farm Income                                         Won 198,000
1/ Excluding the cost of family labor which at present amounts to about 82% of total labor requirements.                        CD
The number of man-days to be contributed by family labor at full development was assumed to remain at                       N4
the present level and all increases in labor requirements to be met either through hiring additional
labor or mechanization.
2/ Under present conditics, mainly taxes and public charges (Won 3,000) and interest on short term loans
(Won 2,300).
3/ Project charges under present conditions represent the pro-rated cost of operation, maintenance and
capital recovery in the partially i-rigated lands.
4/ Based on country wide income projections, earning from non-farming activitic- were assur.  t.^ increase
at 7% per year.



YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Farm Budget for Typical 1.5 ha Farms
Present Conditions                             Full Development
Crop                        Area  Production  Gross Value  Production    Area  Production  Gross Value  Production
of        Costs 1/                             of        Costs
Production                                    Production
) TT------                  (Won)----                     _       K    ---------(Won)---
Rice                         1.1     2,860      268,800       451,700      1.1    4,620        434,30O       96,600
Barley                      1.0      2,200       96,800       43,300       o.6    1,800         79,200       27,700
Miscellaneous Vegetables    0.2      2,500       38,100       U,900        0.7   15,150        238,700       89,000
Others                      0.1        -         17 800        5,000       0.3       -         170,000       47,700
24                              I    ~421'W  10,0  2.7            922,200      261,000
Present Conditions                              FulU Dbvelonnt
(Won)                                        (Won)
Gross Value of Production                        421,s500                                      922,200
Less Production Costs                         105,900                                       261,000
Less Other Expenditures 2/                     10100                                        24 700
Farm Income                                      305,500                                       636,00
Less Project Charges 3/                        I1,500                                        58.500
Net Income from Farming                          294,000                                       578,000
plus income from non-farming activities i    46,000                                          90O000
Total Farm Income                                340,006                                            0
Incremental Farm Income                                         Won 328,000
1 Excluding the cost of family labor which at present amounts to about 70% of total labor requirements.
The number of man-days to be contributed by family labor at full development was asswmed to remain at the present
level and all increases in labor requirements to be met either through hiring additional labor or mechanization.
2 Under present conditions, mainly taxes and public charges (Won 7,4OO) and interest on short term loans (Won 2,700).
3/ Project charges under present conditions represent the pro-rated cost of operation, maintenance and capital
recovery in the partially irrigated lands.
/ Based on country wide income projections, earning from non-farming activities were assumed to increase at 7% per year.
I'" 



KC-EA
YONG SAN GANG I:RIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Farm Budget for Typical 3.0 ha Farms
Present Conditions                            Full Developnent
Area  Production  Gross Value  Production    Area  Production  Gross Value  Production
of         Costs 1/                            of         Costs  /
Production                                    Production
T(ha g)           --       (Won - --    (ha)            F       ---- -Won)T---------
Rice                        2.2  5,720           537,700      128,800    2.2      9,420         868,600     121,400
Barley                      2.0  4,400           193,600      114,900    1.2      3,600         158,400      71,600
Miscellaneous vegetables    0.4  5,000            76,300       30,600    1.2    25,600          404,600     170,500
Others                      0,3      -            53,400       19,800    0.9        -           509,000     158,200
4.9           ~     861,000       29i,100                        1940,00       52,700
Present Conditions                            Full Development
(Won )                                        (Won)
Gross value of production                           861,000                                      1,940,600
Less production costs                            294,100                                        521,700
Less other expenditures 2/                        18,                                            30,400
Farm Income                                         548,900                                      1,31f,0
Less Project charges 3/                           22,900                                        116,500
Net Income fram farming                             326$000                                      1,272,000
plus income from non-farming activities/          60,000                                      _118000
Total Farm Incore                                   586,000                                      1,390,000
Incremental Farm Income                                         Won 804,000
I/ Excluding the cost of family labor which at present amounts to about 53% of total labor requirements.
The ntmber of man-days to be contributed by family labor at full development was assumed to remain
at the present level and all increases in labor requirements to be met either through hiring additional
labor or mechanization.
' Under present conditions, mainly taxes and public charges (won 14,000) and interest on short term
loans (won 4,000).
f Project charges under present conditions represent the pro-rated cost of operation, maintenance and                      W
capital recovery in the partially irrigated lands.
t Based on country wide income projections, earning from non-farming activities were assumed to
increase at 7% per year.



ANNEX 14
Page   I
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT, STAGE I
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The estimated useful life of the project is 50 years.  1When
discounting the project costs and benefits over this period, the economic
rate of return would be about 13%. The following assumptions were made
in carrying out the analysis:
(a) Farm-gate prices for rice and barley are based upon
the expected 1980 world market prices forecast, prepared
by the Bank's Economics Department, and expressed in 1971
prices, cif Pusan. In the case of rice, the price
was derived by using the projected price for brown
rice fob USA West Coast (US$123-133 per ton) plus
US$10 per ton for shipping in bulk and a conversion ratio
of 1.111 to arrive at the cif price of white rice
(US$137-158 per ton). The final farm gate price of US$150
per ton, used in this report, assumes that milling costs
would be covered by the value of bran while port handling
charges of imported rice would be equal to the transport
cost from the farm to the mill. The farm-gate price
adopted for barley is equal to the projected world
market price of US$50 per ton fob USA West Coast plus
US$10 per ton for transportation. For all other crops
the farm-gate price used represents the 1965-70 annual
average expressed at the 1971 price level;
(b) Project lands were assumed to be provided with an
assured water supply at the following rate:
Year          1976      1977       1973       Total
Area (ha)   10,000    15,000       8,000     33,000
(c) Incremental benefits would start accruing in 1976 and
full development reached in 1982. Following the
introduction of irrigation, benefits were assumed to
increase over a five-year period at the annual rate of
20%;
(d) Net value of production under the without project conditions
was assumed to increase at an annual rate of 2% through 1982.
This rate coincides with the country's annual increase in
rice yields during 1960-1970;



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(e)  Farm production costs include family labor wages at the
rate of W 540 per man-day of 10 hours. This rate is the
average wage for males (W 650 per day) and females
(W 430 per day). Costs of farm machinery include the
operator's wages and amortization allowance at 10%
interest;
(f)  Project costs used in the economic analysis amount to
US$72.3 million compared with US$85.2 million presented
in Annex 5. The difference is due to the deduction
of price contingencies (US$12.9 million); and
(g)  Incremental annual operation and maintenance costs
(US$0.7 million) are equal to expenditures after completion
of project works (US$1.2 million) less present expenditures
(US$0.5 million).
2.        The incremental net benefits and project cost streams used in
the analysis are presented below:
Year      Project Costs           Net Value of Production
IWithout Project   With Project
Ö-------------------- US$ Million ----------------
1             5.0                   3.1               3.1
2            14.9                   3.1               3.1
3            20.7                   3.2               3.2
4            18.6                    3.3              3.3
5            13.1                   3.3               4.1
6             0.7                   3.4               6.7
7             0.7                   3.5              10.2
8             0.7                   3.5              13.6
9             0.7                   3.6              17.0
10             0.7                   3.7              19.6
11-50          0.7                   3.8              20.3
Rate of Return:  13.6%
Note:     Project costs from the sixth year onwards represent incremental
annual operation and maintenance costs.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
3.        Several factors, both external and internal to the project, could
cause project returns to fall below the projected levels.  These factors
include a reduction in the rice cropped area (mainly a reflection of a
shortfall in the water supply rather than the farmers' inability to attain
the projected intensity level); an increase in farm production costs; an
increase in project construction costs; delays in completion of project
works: and a longer period being required by farmers to attain the projected
benefit level. These factors were incorporated into the rate of return
streams in paragraph 2 above in order to examine their impact on project
benefits. The extent of deviation from the basic assumptions and the
change in the rate of return are described below:
Item                      Rate of Return (M)
(a) Rice cropped area reduced by
30 %1                                      11.9
(b) Onion and garlic area reduced
by 50%                                     11.5
(c) Farm production costs increased
by 20%                                     11.0
(d) Construction costs increased by
30%                                        10.9
(e) Project construction period
extended to 8 years                        12.2
(f) Development period extended to
10 years                                   10.8
(g) Both (d) and (f) occurring
simultaneously                              9.0
4.        Three steps are necessary in calculating the project's foreign
exchange benefits. First, both the foreign exchange earnings or savings
and the foreign exchange costs must be determined. Second, the net foreign
exchange benefits must be established by deducting the foreign exchange
costs from earnings. Finally, it is necessary to determine at what cost
of local resources these net foreign exchange benefits were obtained in
order to decide whether the local costs are justified. Because costs and
benefits take place in different years, it is necessary to express them
using a common denominator. This is accomplished by presenting both in
terms of their present worth, using the opportunity cost of capital as an
appropriate discount rate. The ratio of discounted not local costs to
discounted net foreign exchange benefits is the foreign exchange rate for
the project. To evaluate this ratio, it must be compared with the prevailing
foreign exchange rate for the country's currency, or, if necessary, with a
shadow foreign exchange rate.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
5.        In calculating the project's internal foreign exchange rate, the
following assumptions were madei
(a) foreign exchange earnings or savings amount to 90% of the
project incremental gross value of production (US$24.8 million);
(b) foreign exchange costs are equal to 52% of total construction
costs, excluding price contingencies (US$37.5 million); 30%
of incremental annual operation and maintenance costs (US$0.2
million); and 40% of incremental annual farm production costs
(US$4.4 million);
(c) local costs are equal to 48% of total construction costs,
excluding price contingencies (W 12,876 million); 70% of
incremental annual operation and maintenance costs (W 185
million); and 60% of incremental annual farm production costs
(W 2,479 million); and
(d) local benefits amount to 10% of the project incremental gross
value of production (W 1,036 million) and represent production
which does not readily enter world trade.
6.        The foreign exchange earnings and local cost streams used in the
analysis are presented in Table 1. The net present worth of foreign exchange
benefits to be realized over the project's life, at a discount rate of 12%,
is US$44.8 million while the discounted net local costs are W 14,800 million.
The ratio of the discounted costs to benefits (i.e., the internal foreign
exchange rate for the project) is W 303 to the US$, which is appreciably
better than the official exchange rate of W 370 per US$.
December 21, 1971



KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE I
Internal Foreign Exchange Rate
Net Foreign Exchange Earnings 1/                                    Net Local Currency Costs  2/
Project   Operation and  Incremental  Incremental Net Foreign                 Project  Operation and  Incremental   Incrementa        Net Local
Costs    Maintenance    Production   Gross Value   Exchange                   Costs  Maintenance    Production   Gross Value            Costs
YEAR                                                         Costs           of        Earnings                                           Costs        of Prod-
______    _____________    __________  Production                                                                         uction
---------------------US$ million-------------------------------               -----------                  W millionÖ--------Ö-------------------
1                                (2.6)           -             -              -         (2.6)                    925           -               -            -             925
2                                (7.8)           -             -              -         (7.8)                   2701           -               -             -           2701
3                               (10.6)           _      -                     -        (10.6)                   3626           -               -             -           3626
4                                (9.6)           -             -              -         (9.6)                    3256          -               -             -           3256
5                                (6.9)           -           (0.2)           1.3        (5.8)                    2368          -              148           (37)          2479
6                                  -           (0.2)         (0.9)           4.9         3.8                      -           185             481          (222)           444
7                                  -           (0.2)         (1.7)           9.9         8.0                      _           185             962          (407)           740
8                                  -           (0.2)         (2.6)          14.9        12.1                      _           185            1443          (629)           999
9                                  -           (0.2)         (3.4)          19.8        16.2                      -           185            1924          (814)          1295
10                                 -           (0.2)         (4.0)          23.4        19.2                      -           185            2257          (962)          1480
11-50                              -           (0.2)         (4.4)          24.8        20.2                      _            185           2479         (1036)          1628
Present Worth (at 12%)                                                                  44.8                                                                             14,800
1/  Figures in parenthesis represent foreign exchange costs
2/ Figures in parenthesis represent local currency earnings






{     _                  _                 _                ,   710~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r SEOUL  )10 Seoul 
REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                                                                                          oIl
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGEI I\                                                                                   1
Rood             EiIZroinage areos                 Kon ctrong                                                  <               1Dvlg
Rodrood                    I  Proposed Irr,gelron prolent areas  /                                 K)       \ e/=   
..... ...Pro cial boundary       .Proposed new rod under projeo/l          \ o
=  Recer                    N. Popoaed canol and/or tunnl  /(
*    Pklisng pulp,", staIon    Z-  Proposed doos and rasOndoIr,                                                                          Sun Clang
P...d d,    5., Ii00K
^ Eo,er,ng dsoenslnWl rorosedie,r so -5ei J      1i<     7 
o~           sLml2 0/ 0r 50M 0                                                                 V w        ;n >z
7                        Osong Kaung                              7  u     erg S-ong                                                  b DAM/VAN  b
\g ,z,  '  \-N,    yS                          A   +~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ ,,~  ,'L zw 0or            \                                  00
*'                             -'.                                                                                                      rulAVu45., 'V.; ,P,
JILl 1971  7l8IR
lg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O-35



