CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 283 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Yong San Gang Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 2, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 283 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Yong San Gang Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 2, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       February   2,  1972,   between RFPIBLIC OF
KOREA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DFVELOPlFNT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried   out by Agricultural Development
Corporation, a corporation established under the laws of the Borrower (hereinafter
referred to as ADC), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance.
the Borrower will make available to ADC the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided:
(C)   The Borrower has also requested     the International Bank  for
Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the'Bank) to provide additional
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of
even date herewith between the Bank and ADC (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to thirty-three million dollars (S33,000,000) (hereinafter cilled
the Loan) and the Borrower has agreed to guarantee the Loan in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement of even date between the
Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Guarantee Agreement):
(D)   The Borrower, the Association and ADC intend. to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be
disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made:
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the


﻿4
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(-aid General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and ADC for the purpose of the Project, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable  to  Loan   and   Guarantee  Agreements   of the   Bank, dated
January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ADC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Act" means the Rural Development Encouragement Law of 1969 of
the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "Land Improvement Association" means an association established
pursuant to the Act;
(e)   "Economic Planning Board" means the Economic Planning Board
established under Article 19 of the Government Organization Law of the Borrower,
Law No. 1506 dated December 14, 1963, as amended up to July 24, 1967, and
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(f)   "Decree"  means Enforcement Decree      of Rural Development
Encouragement Law dated January 27, 1970, as the same may be amended from
time to time; and
(g)   "By-Laws" means By-Laws of the ADC, as the same may be amended
from time to time.


﻿5
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 1982 and ending
September 15, 2021, each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 15, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal


﻿6
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and cne-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Director, Bureau of Economic Cooperation, Economic
Planning Board, or such other person or persons he shall designate in writing, are
authorized to take, on behalf of the Borrower, any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ADC to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to ADC under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ADC
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable ADC to perform all of
its obligations under the Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower accepts that:
(a)   Unless the context shall otherwise require, all references to the Bank
and the Loan in the provisions of Articles III, IV, and V (except Section 5.04)
and Section 6.03 of, and until the Credit shall have been fully disbursed, to the


﻿7
Bank and the Loan Account in the Schedule 2 to, the Loan Agreement shall be
deemed to include the Association, the Credit and the Credit Account, respectively,
as the case may be.
(b)   If and when the Loan Agreement shall terminate prior to the agreed
maturity thereof, the provisions of the Loan Agreement referred to in the preceding
paragraph shall be deemed to be in full force and effect for the purposes of the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents,
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower shall or shall cause ADC to: (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to enable ADC to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required by ADC for the construction
and operation of the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the water rights in respect of all
lands in the Project area to be recorded in accordance with the Borrower's
legislation.


﻿8
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all action as shall be necessary: (i)
to ensure that non-Korean bidders for goods and services under the Project are
not required to register in Korea as a condition of bidding for any contract; and
(ii) to facilitate registration, wherever required, of the non-Korean bidder who shall
have been awarded a contract for goods and services under the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Office of Rural Development
of the Borrower: (i) to take such measures as shall be necessary to increase, not
later than January 1, 1976, the number of extension staff to the level of
approximately 125 extension workers in the Project area; and (ii) to establish and
implement, not later than one year from the date of this Agreement, an agreed
program  of applied research for irrigated upland crops in the Project area.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the flow of water for the
purposes of the Project shall not be depleted below the minimum that is required
for the Project as a result of other development works.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the National Agricultural Cooperative
Federation of the Borrower: (i) to ensure that adequate amounts of short-term
credit will be available to farmers in the Project area for purposes of the Project;
and (ii) to give priority to the implementation in the Project area of any
mechanization program that may be established by the Borrower.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause: (i) its Yong San Gang Basin
Development Committee to prepare a plan for supporting agricultural services in
the Project area, satisfactory to the Association; (ii) such plan to be furnished
to the Association for its comments; (iii) such plan to be implemented within
one year from the date of this Agreement; and (iv) the said Committee to coordinate
the activities of such departments or agencies of the Borrower as may be responsible
for the carrying out and the operation of such plan.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performanc,, of their respective obligations under the Development Credit


﻿9
Agreement, the performance by ADC of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of ADC, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower associated
in the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of ADC, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower associated in the carrying out
of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by ADC of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of ADC and any relevant records and
documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any
proposed changes in the Act, Decree or the By-Laws.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿10
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration the'eof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in it3 territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Act or the Decree shall have been amended in such a way as to
substantially alter the organization, powers or responsibilities of ADC without the
consent of the Association;
(b)   the By-Laws shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of ADC
to carry out the covenants and agreements set forth in the Loan Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; ?nd
(c)   the ADC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Loan Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The event specified in Section 7.02 (c) of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been


﻿0                                  11
given by the Bank to the Guarantor and the ADC, or by the Association to the
Borrower and ADC, as the case may be.
(b)   Any event specified in Section 7.02 (a) or (b) of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date, Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   That all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement and Guarantee Agreement other than the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
(b)   That the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and ADC, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and ADC, respectively, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Borrower and ADC in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The  date  June    15,   1972  is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement
terminates prior to the agreed maturity thereof, the obligations of the Borrower
under Sections 3.01 (c) and (d), 4.05 (ii) and 5.04 and the provisions of Sections
7.02 (a) through (c) and Sections 7.03 (a) and (b) of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which either of such Agreements remaining in effect
shall terminate or on the date thirty years after the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister, Economic Planning Board, of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.


﻿12
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s/ Dong Jo Kim
Authorized Representativ.e
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be
financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the Loan          % of
Allocated (Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Civil Works                     20,600,000         55% of total ex-
penditures (repre-
senting the esti-
mated foreign ex-
penditure com-
ponent)
II.  Equipment Materials                                100% of foreign
and Supply                     10,700,000         expenditures, or
100% of local
expenditures
III.  Consultants Services                              100% of foreign
and Overseas training                             expenditures
of Korean personnel             1,600,000
IV.   Interest and other                                100% of foreign
charges on the Loan                               expenditures
accrued on or before
September 14, 1977              3,400,000
V.    Unallocated                    11,700,000
TOTAL          48,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:


﻿14
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above:
(a)   No withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(i)        expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(ii)       payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
To the extent that the amount represented by the percentage
set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable
net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure
that no proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan will be withdrawn
on account of payments for such taxes; and
(iii)      expenditures for freight and insurance within the territories of
the Borrower.
(b)   Except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed,
no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account other than under Category
IV except under commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Loan set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I
above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan then allocated to such


﻿15
Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association
and by the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the
Bank, by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association and by the Bank
or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, at the request
of the Borrower and ADC, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, subject, however, to the requirements
for contingencies, as determined by the Association and by the Bank or, after
full withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, by the Bank, in respect of any other
expenditures;
(c)  if the Association and the Bank or, after full withdrawal of all amounts
of the Credit, the Bank, shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, or Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement,
as the case may be, no expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan or, after full withdrawal of all amounts of
the Credit, of the Loan, and the Association and the Bank or, after full withdrawal
of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association or the Bank, by
notice to the Borrower and ADC, cancel such amount of the Credit or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, of the Loan, as in the reasonable opinion
of the Association and the Bank or, after the full withdrawal of all amounts of
the Credit, the Bank, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing under this Agreement or the Loan
Agreement; and
(d)   notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the
table set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under
Category I shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association and the Bank or, after full
withdrawal of all amounts of the Credit, the Bank, may, by notice to the Borrower
and ADC, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under any such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿0
16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is located in the Yong San Gang Basin in the Jeonla Nam
Province. The Project consists of:
I.    Four independent sub-projects: in Dam Yang, Jang Seong, Kwang Ju and
Dae Cho; and each such sub-project shall include:
(a)   construction of dam and reservoir for storage and regulation of the
river;
(b)   construction of a main canal and lateral system to serve the irrigable
area;
(c)   land consolidation and on-farm development (subject to a total of
30,000 ha in sub-projects mentioned above);
(d)   a main drainage system;
(e)   relocation of existing roads in the reservoir area and improvement of
secondary and farm service roads; and
(f)   primary lime application on all lands following on-farm development.
II.  Provision of consulting services and training overseas of selected ADC Staff;
III.  Provision of supporting agricultural services and credits for agricultural inputs
such as seed and fertilizer; and
IV.   Preparation of a feasibility study for further development of irrigation and
drainage in the Yong San Gang Basin.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


