Document of
The World Bank                  !   __  a >
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY HIE COPY
Report No. 2736-PE
STAFF APPRATSAL REPORT
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERU
February 12, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(At May 1979 Exchange Rate)
US$1              =     S/. 220.00 (Peruvian Soles)
S/. 100           =     US$0.45
S/. 1 million    =      US$4,545.00
Weights and Measures
2
1 hectare (ha)              =  10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2    =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km ) =  0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.2 pounds
1 liter (1)                 =  0.26 gallons
1 metric ton (m ton)      3)=  1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
1 million cubic meter (Mm  =  264.18 million gallons
Abbreviations
AID:      Agency for International Development
AOP:      Annual Operating Plan
ARE:      Agrarian Reform Enterprise
AU:       Animal Unit
BAP:      Banco Agrario del Peru
Peruvian Agricultural Bank
BIP:      Banco Industrial del Peru
Peruvian Industrial Bank
CAP:      Cooperativa Agraria de Produccion
Agrarian Production Cooperative
CAS:      Cooperativa Agraria de Servicios
Farm Services Cooperative
CENCIRA:  Centro Nacional de Capacitacion e Investigacion
para la Reforma Agraria
National Training Center for Agrarian Reform
CIP:      Cooperativa de Integracion Parcelaria
Farm Unification Cooperative
COMDEP:   Comite Departamental de Puno
Puno Department Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-2 -
CORPUNO:  Corporacion de Desarrollo de Puno
Puno Development Corporation
DRAA:     Direccion Regional de Agricultura y Alimentacion
Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Food
DRE:      Direccion Regional de Educacion
Regional Directorate of Education
DRS:      Direccion Regional de Salud
Regional Directorate of Health
DRTC:     Direccion Regional de Transportes y Comunicaciones
-Regional Directorate for Transport and Communication
ENCI:     Empresa Nacional de Comercializacion de Insumos
National Input Marketing Company
EPS:      Empresa de Propiedad Social
Mutually Owned Enterprise
FAO:      Food and Agriculture Organization
FDR:      Fondo de Desarrollo de Empresas Rurales
Rural Enterprise Development Fund
ICB:      International Competitive Bidding
IDB:      Interamerican Development Bank
IFB:      Invitation for Bid
INIA:     Instituto Nacional de Investigacion Agraria
National Agricultural Research Institute
INN:      Instituto Nacional de Nutricion
National Nutrition Institute
INP:      Instituto Nacional de Planificacion
National Planning Institute
LCB:      Local Competitive Bidding
MAA:      Ministerio de Agricultura y Alimentacion
Ministry of Agriculture and Food
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 3 -
ONERN:    Oficina Nacional de Evaluacion de Recursos Nlaturales
National Office for Natural Resources Studies
ORDEPUNO: Organismo Regional de Desarrollo de Puno
Puno Regional Development Organization
PU:       Project Unit
SAIS:     Sociedad Agricola de Interes Social
Ntutually Owned Farm Enterprise
SOE:      Statement of Expenditures
SPA:      Subsidiary Project Agreement
UNTA:     Universidad Nacional Tecnica del Altiplano
National Technical University for the Highlands



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     THE  AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  ................................                                 1
A.     General  ...........................................                                 1
The Resource Base   ............................                                    1
The  Coastal  Zone  ................1................ 
The  Selva             .......................................                   2
The Sierra              ............................                             2
Policy Background   ............................                                    2
Agrarian Reform ....................                                             3
Marketing  ..             .....................................                  4
Credit                                  ..   5
B.   Previous Bank Involvement and Proposed Bank
Strategy  in  the  Sector  ..........................                            6
II.     AGRICULTUREiAND  RURAL  POVERTY  IN THE  SIERRA  ....                         ........      7
III.      THE  PROJECT  AREA  .......................................                                 8
Location  and  Physiography  ..............................                                 8
Climate .          ................................................    9
Soil  and Water  Resources  ...............................                                9
Communications  .........................................                                  9
Population  and  Employment  ..............................                               10
Land  Tenure  and  Farmer  Organization  ....................                             10
Crop  and  Livestock  Production  ..........................                              11
Regional  Institutions  ..................................                                11
V. TE  PROJECT.                                                                              13
IV.    THE  PRJEC   ............................................                                   1
A.     Introduction  ........                 ..............................              13
B.     Brief Description  ..............                ..      .................         14
C.     Detailed  Features  ..............               ..      .................         15
Irrigation  ......................................                             15
Agricultural  Credit  Program  .....................                            16
Forestry  Program  ................................                            17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. D. Fitchett, A. Kogan and F. Sands (Bank) and Messrs. 0. Echeverri,
R. Gallagher and J. Pines (Consultants) who visited Peru in May/June 1979.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Project  Unit  ....................................                            17
Research  Program  ................................                            17
Roads  and  Communications  .....................                              18
Social  Infrastructure  ...........................                            18
Potable Water  .................................                            18
Rural  Health  Facilities  .......................                          18
Rural  Vocational  Training  .....................                          19
Second  Phase  Studies  ............................                          19
D.    Project  Costs  .....................................                              19
E.     Project  Financing  .................................                             20
F.    Procurement  .......................................                               22
G.     Disbursement  ......................................                              23
V.    ORGANIZATION,  MANAGEMENT  AND  IMPLEMENTATION  ...... ......                             25
A.    Organization  and Management  .......................                              25
B.    Participating  Agencies  ............................                              26
C.     Crop  and  Livestock  Technical  Assistance  Program    ...                       28
D.    Nutrition  Program .................................                               29
E.     Lending  Policies  and  Procedures  for  Agricultural
Credit  ..........................................                            29
F.     Project  Accounts  ..................................                             31
G.     Accounts  and  Auditing  .............................                            31
H.     Project  Monitoring,  Reporting  and  Evaluation  ......                          31
VI.     AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT,  OUTPUT,  AND MARKETING  ........                              32
A.     Crop  and  Livestock  Productivity  ...................                           32
Cropped  Area  ....................................                           32
Yields  ..........................................                            32
Farm Models  .....................................                            33
Ranch Models ...........                                                       35
B.     Project  Output  ....................................                             36
C.     Marketing  .........................................                              37



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......    .............................  37
A.  Crop and Livestock Operations .............. ....      37
B.  Project Cost Recovery .....     ......................  38
VIII.   PROJECT BENEFITS, ECONOMTIC RATE OF RETURN AND
PROJECT  RISKS   ......................................   40
A.  Project  Benefits   ................................   40
B.  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis       40
C.  Project  Risks   ...................................   41
D.  Environmental  Impact   ............................   41
IX.   SUMIARY OF AGREEMIENTS REACHED AND RECOIMENDATION          42
SCHEDULE A - Lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions      45
ANNEXES
1.  Disbursements Against Statement of Expenditures (SOE) .....      51
2.  Supporting Tables and Charts .....     .........................  53
T.1  Average Monthly Climatic Data
T.2  Land Distribution, Livestock Ownership and Income
in the Project Area
T.3  Huata-Quita Irrigation Rehabilitation - Summary Cost Estimate
T.4  Huata-Quita and Cabanillas Irrigation Systems - Water
Demand and Supply
T.5   Cabanillas Irrigation Rehabilitation - Summary Cost Estimate
T.6  Taraco Irrigation System - Water Demand and Supply
T.7  Taraco Irrigation Rehabilitation - Summary Cost Estimate
T.8  Buena Vista Irrigation System - Water Demand and Supply
T.9  Buena Vista Irrigation System - Summary Cost Estimate
T.10  Small-Scale Irrigation Systems - Water Demand and Supply
T.11  Small-Scale Irrigation Systems - Summary Cost Estimate
T.12  Equipment for Irrigation Subprojects - Summary Cost Estimate
T.13  Irrigation Subprojects - Phasing of Investment
T.14  Irrigation Subprojects - 0 and M Costs at Full Development
T.15  Costs of Establishing and Operating the Forestry Program



Table of Contents (Continued)
2.   Supporting Tables and Charts (Continued)
T.16  Locally Recruited Project Unit Staff
T.17  Internationally Recruited Consultants for Project
Unit Staff
T.18  Prvject Unit Equipment - Investment and Operating Costs
T.19  Project Unit Facilities - Investment and Operating Costs
T.20  Costs of Extension Staff Training Program
T.21  Nutrition Component - Investment and Operating Costs
T.22  Crop and Livestock Research Program - Investment and
Operating Costs
T.23  Pirapi Irrigation Training and Demonstration Center -
Summary Cost Estimate
T.24  Improvement of Roads and Communications Program - Investment
and Operating Costs
T.25  Potable Water and Sanitary Units Systems - Investment
Costs
T.26  Rural Health Program - Investment Costs
T.27  Rural Health Program - Operating Costs
T.28  Rural Vocational Training Centers - Summary of
Investment and Operating Costs
T.29  Second Phase Studies Program - Summary Cost Table
T.30  Project Cost Phasing
T.31  Project Financing
T.32  Distribution of Cropland by Farm Type, Without and
With Project
T.33  Yield Schedule for Major Crops
T.34  Incremental Farm Input Requirements
T.35  Model 1:  Sales and Operating Costs for Minifundista
T.36  Model 2:  Consolidated Farm Budget for Minifundista
T.37  Model 2:  Sales and Operating Costs for Small Farmer
T.38  Model 2:  Consolidated Farm Budget for Small Farmer
T.39  Model 3:  Medium Farmer Investment Program
T.40  Model 3:  Sales and Operating Costs for Medium Farmer
T.41  Model 3:  Cash Flow for Medium Farmer
T.42  Model 4:  Sales and Operating Costs for ARE
T.43  Model 4:  Cash Flow for ARE
T.44  Sheep Ranch:  Investment Costs
T.45  Sheep Ranch:  Flock Projection
T.46  Sheep Ranch:  Sales and Operating Costs
T.47  Sheep Ranch:  Producer's Cash Flow
T.48  Cattle Ranch:  Investment Costs
T.49  Cattle Ranch:  Herd Projection
T.50  Cattle Ranch:  Sales and Operating Costs
T.51  Cattle Ranch:  Producer's Cash Flow
T.52  Alpaca Herd:  Investment Costs
T.53  Alpaca Herd:  Herd Projection
T.54  Alpaca Herd:  Sales and Operating Costs
T.55  Alpaca Herd:  Producer's Cash Flow
T.56  Prices Used in Economic and Financial Analysis
T.57  Rent and Cost Recovery in Irrigation Subprojects
T.58  Flows of Incremental Economic Benefits and Costs
T.59  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Tests



Table of Contents (Continued)
Chart 1 -  Organization of ORDEPUNO
Chart 2 - Implementation Schedule for Principal Project Components
Chart 3 - Project Unit Organization
3.   List of Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 14684






PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR 1/
A. General
1.01      Agriculture contributes about 13% to Peru's GDP, but it occupies more
than 42% of the labor force and accounts for about 29% of total merchandise
exports. Food processing employs an additional 4% of the labor force and con-
tributes about 9% of the GDP. The value of food production at constant prices
rose initially in the 1970s and then trended downward through 1978. The popu-
lation, increasing at about 2.9% per annum, is now about 17 million; some 7.4
million persons (about 45%) live in rural areas. Per capita food production
has dropped continuously during 1971-78; by 1978 it was about 69% of the
average per capita food production during 1961-65. Consequently, the country's
dependence on imported foodstuffs has increased, mainly in dairy products,
pulses, vegetable oils, and grains such as wheat and maize. At the same time,
the volume of agricultural exports declined in 1975/76 to about 60% of its
1962/63 level. Improvement of the performance of the agricultural sector has
now become critical to the country's economic progress and to the well-being
of the rural population.
The Resource Base
1.02      In comparison to other Latin American countries, Peru has a rela-
tively limited natural resource base. While the total area of the country
is about 128 million ha, only about 3.7 million, or 2.9%, are cultivable, and
another 22 million ha (17%) are natural pasture land. Most of the soils
suitable for intensive agriculture are already cultivated. Additional land
could be developed either in the Ceja de Selva (lower eastern slopes of the
Andes), which would be expensive due to lack of access and basic infrastructure
and services, or in the Coastal Zone, also requiring substantial investments
to provide irrigation on presently marginal land. The ratio of cropland
actually harvested to rural population is relatively low at 0.34 ha per
person, but actual figures vary according to the three main ecological regions
into which Peru can be divided--the Coastal Zone, the Selva and the Sierra.
1.03      The Coastal Zone.  The Coastal Zone, which lies between the 3,000-km-
long Pacific Ocean coastline and the Andes, consists mainly of flat desert
plains, sand dunes and the dry Andean foothills. It covers about 13 million
ha (11% of the country's area) and has about 46% of the country's estimated 17
million population. As rainfall is extremely low, coastal agriculture is
1/   This chapter is based on the Agricultural Sector Updating Report issued
in September 1977, whose findings are incorporated into the Basic Economic
Report (No. 2204-PE) issued April 13, 1979.



- 2 -
limited to the river valleys where irrigation is possible; these valleys
produce over 40% of the country's gross value of crop output. The crops in
the Coastal Zone include sugar, rice, cotton, maize, potatoes, citrus, olives
and grapes. The region enjoys relatively close proximity to the major urban
markets, a gc d transportation network and other infrastructure, and is
relatively prosperous.
1.04      The Selva.  The Selva, or jungle region, which covers about
77 million ha (62% of Peru's area) and accounts for 10% of total population,
is a humid tropical region. It contains two sub-zones, the low Selva and
the Ceja de Selva. Fruits, coffee and tea are the main crops in the Ceja de
Selva, and livestock production is being developed in some areas. Despite the
relatively low soil quality, the Selva region has been gaining importance
economically because of oil discoveries and development of two Trans-Andean
Highway projects. It is likely that these projects will give impetus to
further agricultural development in the region.
1.05      The Sierra.  The Sierra, or Andean highland region, with about 44% of
the population, covers over 33 million ha (27% of the total land area). It
consists of steep mountains, reaching over 5,000 m, and high valleys located
between the mountain ranges. The Sierra accounts for well over half of the
arable cropland in Peru (about 2.3 million out of a total of some 3.7 million ha).
However, this represents only 7% of the Sierra's total area. About half the re-
maining area (14.3 million ha) is used for grazing of sheep, cattle, alpaca and
llama, mainly on natural pastures under marginal conditions because of steep
slopes and high altitudes. Crop farming is generally difficult and limited to
one short growing season from about November to March. Accentuating the farming
difficulties are: severe topography, erratic rainfall, and extreme changes in
temperature, including the risk of frosts during the greater part of the year.
Approximately 55% of the country's population dependent on agriculture lives in
the Sierra, with an average of about 1.9 ha of cropland per family. Agricultural
techniques are primitive, fallow periods are long (three to four years for
every year cropped), transport costs to market centers are high, and oppor-
tunities for off-farm employment are limited. While there is little scope for
putting new land into production, there is significant potential for increasing
crop and livestock productivity, raising output and improving farmers' living
conditions through projects such as the one proposed herein.
Policy Background
1.06      According to the United States Department of Agriculture statistics,
from 1968 to 1978 agricultural output increased by only 4%; as population rose by
about 2.9% per annum, per capita food production fell by 23% during this period.
Output performance appears to have been especially poor since 1972. Some of the
Government's overly interventionist policies in the agricultural sector since
1968 - such as those reviewed below - have slowed the expansion of output or
contributed to its decline. Shortfalls of domestic production in recent years
have resulted in considerable imports of basic foodstuffs--often distributed to
consumers at highly subsidized prices--queuing, meatless days, and such. The
Government has recently initiated a series of policies which include a reduction
of the earlier overly interventionist approach. Marketing and price control



policies are being altered in order to promote increased production, reduce
agricultural imports and improve producers' returns. This reorientation of
sectoral policies is expected to resolve some of these problems, although
it would be premature to undertake an assessment at this point.
1.07      Moreover, the Government has chosen to pursue a policy fostering
a more balanced development, involving the rural population, largely concen-
trated in the Andean Highlands and who so far have benefitted little from the
agrarian reform or large-scale investment programs concentrated on the Coast.
Through actions under this policy, the Government hopes to slow the migration
to the coastal cities and to address the problems of unemployment and mal-
nutrition in the rural areas. The proposed project is a first effort to
translate these goals into a modest-scale first-phase rural development
project for one of the most densely populated and impoverished areas of the
country.
1.08      Agrarian Reform.  In June 1969, the Government issued a new agrarian
reform law which introduced significant changes into the agricultural land
tenure pattern of the countryside. Large private landholdings were expropri-
ated and property rights transferred to groups of agricultural workers, small
farmers and Indian communities. The main targets of the reform process were
to expropriate some 14,500 farms covering 10.3 million ha (43% of the country's
area in farms) by the end of 1977 and adjudicate 10.6 million ha (including
0.4 million ha of state land); 77% of the land area was adjudicated to--and
95% of the beneficiaries were grouped in--associative or cooperative operating
units (Agrarian Reform Enterprises (AREs)).
1.09      During the initial years of the reform process, the Government
sought to impose relatively rigid forms of associative or cooperative operation
on the enterprises established under the reform program. This was relatively
easy to superimpose on the modern large-scale, often export-oriented crop
production and agroindustrial enterprises on the Coast. Agrarian Production
Cooperatives (CAP) were the typical organizational units introduced. Similarly,
on the large-scale livestock enterprises in the Sierra, the Mutually Owned
Farm Enterprise (SAIS) was established, incorporating not just ex-workers
and ex-tenants as beneficiaries but also embracing the surrounding Indian
communities to share in enterprise management and profits. Further coopera-
tivization was to be sought: (a) for the lands of Indian communities through
communal cooperatives for joint production; (b) among smallholders through
Farm Unification Cooperatives (CIP) to consolidate small farmers into joint
production units; and (c) also among smallholders, Farm Service Cooperatives
(CAS) to facilitate access to inputs, credit and infrastructure.
1.10      The expropriation and adjudication stages of the agrarian reform
process were by and large completed by the end of 1978. This formidable task
was accomplished only with notable stress on the institutional capabilities
in the sector; the Agricultural Ministry's trained manpower was concentrated
on the land transfer process, and other priority items were downgraded or
neglected. In this process, the Ministry's extension services were severely
reduced. Moreover, despite the concentration of credit and technical



- 4 -
assistance on the newly established AREs, performance has been uneven. The
Government had great expectations that agrarian reform would alter the political
and economic structures of the country, promote agricultural production and
eliminate rural poverty. Nevertheless, achievements have fallen short of
expectations and a new set of serious problems are emerging f- e the reform
sector. The more that cooperative farming changed the pre-reform patterns of
production and the smaller the initially distributable ARE profits, the less
willing members were to participate in attaining the AREs' goals. Member
rejection has been particularly noticeable in the poor tenant-based haciendas
of the Sierra, where the shift to cooperatives has been accompanied by attempts
to eliminate individual plots/herds. The rigid size criteria imposed on
cooperatives have made many of the Sierra AREs uneconomically large. Basic
conflicts of interest have arisen on the SAIS between members/workers (who
want to maximize wages and reduce employment) and members of the surrounding
peasant communities (who want to reduce permanent worker wages and maximize
seasonal employment). At the same time, since individual profit sharing is
small and the member has little control on the allocation of the reinvested
profits, he pushes for high wages and low profits; since the wage and the job
are both virtually guaranteed, there are few incentives toward labor effort
and discipline. Similarly, the incentives encourage members to mechanize
operations rather than expand non-member employment opportunities. These
organizational problems have made it difficult to manage the AREs, especially
when the managers and technicians hired by the enterprise are inexperienced
and given very limited authority.
1.11      The Government recognizes that the success of the AREs will depend
on solving their present operational problems and increasing efficiency. The
key issue will be how to increase the identification of the members with the
fate of the cooperative to ensure a rational allocation of resources, to
establish labor discipline, and to reduce conflicts between members. For this
reason, the Government is reviewing both the organization of some of the
cooperatives--where the conflicts between types of members are inherent to the
organization--and the size of cooperatives--where diseconomies of scale are
important. Combined with the envisaged strengthening of technical services,
input supplies and marketing facilities, the performance of the reformed
sector should rise. Nevertheless, while most public sector resources in the
past decade have been concentrated on implementing the reform, which involved
about 43% of the area in farms and 25% of the rural families (and probably the
relatively better-off families), the 40% of the farm families which are
minifundistas and 12% which are landless laborers have benefited little or
none from this costly process.
1.12      Marketing.  Other public sector policies have not stimulated effi-
cient production. The Government considered that market forces were not
allocating sufficient resources to the production of food, and that monopol-
istic practices resulted in excessive profit margins and inefficiencies in
marketing. To force growth of food production, the Government has for some
time decreed that 40% of all arable lands be dedicated to crops, and in 1975,
it set up a complicated central planning system to partially replace the
market on production and pricing decisions. In marketing, the Government
imposed controls in prices and marketing margins; took over all marketing of



- 5 -
exports, imports and some domestically produced foodstuffs; and established
controls regulating the physical movement of agricultural goods. As a result,
the farm area in food production has increased, but gross value of output per
hectare has declined, and net foreign exchange savings appear to have been
negative. Price subsidies on fertilizers helped the richer farmers and often
resulted in excessive use with little impact on production. The Government
lacked manpower, money and storage facilities, while wholesale markets and
other marketing infrastructure remain inadequate.
1.13      The inefficiencies introduced by past state intervention in the
marketing system have become a serious bottleneck to agricultural development.
The Government is presently changing its approach, moving over to a system of
partial intervention to eliminate the possible monopolistic practices now
exercised by middlemen and to ensure that marketing margins are as small as
possible, benefitting both producers and consumers instead of trying to police
the whole. In line with this new approach, in the last few years, the
Government has started to relax its controls on prices and to reduce consumer
subsidies on basic foodstuffs. These new measures are intended to stimulate
production and improve producer returns, lower imports and reduce the heavy
burdens placed on the Government budget by consumer subsidies resulting from
earlier policies.
1.14      Credit.  Less than 20% of farms obtain institutional credit, at
negative real interest rates. The remainder operate with informal sources
at high interest rates or obtain no credit at all. The bulk of credit--
institutional or informal--is short-term; medium- and long-term lending
averaged less than US$20 million annually from 1975 to 1978. The Government's
credit policies discouraged the commercial banking system from lending for
agriculture and at the same time promoted inefficiency and decapitalization in
the Peruvian Agricultural Bank (BAP). Borrowers came to depend on subsidized
credit in a highly inflationary environment, rather than applying financial
discipline in their farming operations.
1.15      BAP is a government-owned institution with 18 branch offices, 54
agencies and 34 field offices. It has executed five agricultural credit loans
and acts as banking agent for the on-farm development credit component of
the ongoing Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project and the recently negotiated
Lower Piura Project. It would provide short- and long-term credit under the
proposed project. BAP provides about 85% of institutional credit to the
sector, 10% is provided by commercial banks, and the rest comes from other
development banks and direct Government allocations. About 90% of BAP's
annual lending is short-term production credit, mainly to associative enter-
prises. Its main source of short-term resources is the Central Bank through
its discount facilities. Long-term loans have generally been made using
external sources such as Bank or Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) loans.
BAP's lending operations have grown in recent years owing to its rapidly
expanding lending to associative enterprises and the reduced participation of
private banks. In the period 1970 to 1975, lending operations increased by
about one-third in real terms. However, the volume of long-term development
credit has increased to a lesser degree. While BAP has had some success in
reducing its loans in arrears, these continue to be relatively high (about 10%
of its portfolio). It is also striving to reduce the burden of its administra-
tive costs, which are about 10% of the value of its portfolio. Despite sub-
stantial increases in recent years in loan interest rates, which are applied



- 6 -
retroactively to outstanding as well as new loans, the capital base of BAP
has been seriously eroded by inflation, requiring continued new capital contri-
butions from the Government. Moreover, these interest rates continue to be
appreciably below the rate of inflation. Finally, BAP's relatively small
technical staf. cannot provide adequate technical assistance services to sub-
borrowers, while MAA's farm extension services continue to be very deficient
and not coordinated with BAP's credit programs. The BAP is currently preparing
a request for a new Bank loan (the Sixth Agricultural Credit Project), in which
these sectoral and institutional issues will be addressed.
B.   Previous Bank Involvement and Proposed Bank Strategy in the Sector
1.16      The Bank has made 11 agricultural loans to Peru.  Five of them,
totalling US$55.0 million, were for agricultural credit and were channeled
through BAP (105-PE, 162-PE, 257-PE, 415-PE and 933-PE). Disbursements of
the last loan (933-PE) are completed. Two other loans (67-PE and 98-PE),
totalling US$3 million, were for farm machinery imports and the other three
(144-PE, 418-PE and 1403-PE) were for irrigation. The first two of these
loans for irrigation, totalling US$24.5 million, financed irrigation works and
land settlement of the San Lorenzo scheme in the Piura Valley. The Second
San Lorenzo Loan (418-PE) suffered managerial problems, inadequate counterpart
funding and water shortages. While it took 11 years to disburse, it neverthe-
less acheived its basic goals and produced important benefits (OED Project
Performance Audit Report SECM-48 of January, 1978). The third irrigation
project (Loan 1403-PE for US$25 million) finances the rehabilitation of
irrigation and drainage systems in six southern coastal valleys. A second
irrigation rehabilitation project--the Bajo Piura Project--has recently been
approved by the Bank.
1.17      It is anticipated that the Bank will intensify its lending operations
in the agricultural sector in the coming years in support of the Government's
policy initiatives and investment programs. Further large-scale irrigation
rehabilitation and drainage projects on the Coast are a distinct possibility
as the Government strengthens its implementation capabilities in this area.
Financing of small-scale irrigation construction and improvement sub-projects
carried out under the aegis of a national program in both the Coast and the
Sierra is to be further examined with the authorities. Also in the Sierra,
the Bank could support dairy development in several of the major milksheds
(e.g., Cajamarca and Huancayo), mainly among small-scale producers. The
experience to be gained in the execution of this proposed rural development
project should provide the basis for future projects of this type in the
Sierra. The Bank would also examine possibilities for promoting tropical tree
crop and livestock development and rural infrastructure in the Ceja de la
Selva. Finally, among the projects with national scope would be Bank support
of term lending for crop, livestock and agroindustrial development (building
on the experience of five previous loans), provision of marketing and storage
infrastructure (especially in rural areas) and strengthening of the agricul-
tural research and extension services.



- 7 -
II. AGRICULTURE AND RURAL POVERTY IN THE SIERRA
2.01      The Sierra's population in 1972 was about 6 million, 44% of the
total for the country. About a quarter of the people depend on mining and
services and most of the remainder on subsistence farming, cottage industries,
commerce, and such, sometimes complemented with seasonal work (often in the
coastal areas). The Sierra's agricultural economy has shown little dynamism,
it has traditionally experienced neglect and borne the brunt of the pro-urban
bias of Government policies. The concentration of physical infrastructure and
support services (research, extension and credit) in coastal agriculture and
the low food price policy of most Governments have impeded the expansion of
agricultural output in the Sierra. The health situation is poor and infant
mortality is exceptionally high; life expectancy is as low as 35 years. More
than 50% of the children under five, and pregnant and lactating women are at
risk of serious malnutrition. Protein-calorie malnutrition shows a high
inverse correlation with size of family farm plot, with more than 90% of
protein-calorie malnutrition found among families with 3 ha or less of culti-
vable land. Owing to substantial out-migration to other regions, the popula-
tion is currently increasing at a rate of only about 1% per annum. A large
part of the rural population lives in traditional communities.
2.02      According to the 1972 agricultural census, there were 1,083,100 farms
in the Sierra (77% of the nation's total). Land in farms came to 19.4 million
ha, 2.3 million ha of which were in croplands, about 500,000 of which were irri-
gated. Of this cropland, 1.2 million ha were in annual crops and 0.9 million
ha were fallow. Permanent cropland amounted to 184,200 ha of which about 60%
were in cultivated pastures. Natural pasturelands totalled about 14.3 million
ha. Owing to the relatively high population pressure in rural areas, rainfed
cultivated cropland has progressed up mountain slopes, encroaching on marginal
and non-arable lands, thus accelerating erosion. The National Office for
Natural Resource Studies (ONERN) estimates that 50 to 60% of the pasturelands
are not presently suitable for sustained extensive grazing. thus, overstocking
may be likely.
2.03      Of the 1,083,100 units in the Sierra, 1,039,400 farms (95%) under
20 ha in size averaged 1.7 ha of cropland each and accounted for 77% of the
Sierra's cropland. The remainder was distributed between 32,300 farms in the
20- to 100-ha range (281,000 ha) and 11,400 farms over 100 ha (230,000 ha).
Main crops are potatoes, barley, wheat and quinua; the Sierra is the country's
main producer of these staples. Yields are low, in part owing to primitive
cultivation techniques, poor quality seeds and lack of nitrogen and other
elements in most of the soils. Further constraints derive from climatic condi-
tions; late summer and early autumn frosts can often wipe out an entire harvest,
while the rainfall (600 to 1,000 mm) is concentrated in a few months but often
erratic in both timing and volume. Only 13% of the farms apply fertilizers,
16% purchase seeds and 2% are provided with extension services and institutional
credit. (In 1976, barely 15% of BAP credit went to Sierra farms.)
2.04      Natural grasslands are predominantly in the larger farms (over
100 ha), which also have 15% of the cultivated pastures. Nevertheless,
although the region accounted for 79% of the national cattle herd in 1972,
64% of all cattle were on Sierra farms less than 20 ha in size. While 97%
of the country's sheep are in the Sierra, 67% are on farms with less than 20
ha. The distribution of cameloids (llama and alpaca) is most likely similar.



- 8 -
Herd extraction rates and output of fiber per head are low, owing to the low
genetic constitution of most animals, inadequate nutrition, negligible animal
health measures and poor management practices.
2.05      Expansion of agricultural production is further cons  'ained by the
inadequate road network, little of which is paved and much of which is poorly
maintained. Market information services are meager and poorly organized, and
product transport and marketing is to a large extent carried out by a great
number of small-scale truckers and traders. Product storage, wholesaling and
retailing infrastructure is inadequate.
*.06      In the mid-70s, typical 'arm family income in the Sierra was esti-
mated at some US$250 equivalent (including subsistence production, farm produce
sales and off-farm employment). Low economic performance is accompanied by
social and cultural impoverishment.  Literacy rates amenR the rural population
are typically below the national average, especially for females. Housing is
primitive, with grossly inadequate potable water and sanitary facilities; few
homes have electricity. Health services are rudimentary or non-existent;
Sierra Departments average less than one health facility bed and less than one
professional or technical staff per thousand persons--less than one-half the
national average--and even these few are concentrated in urban centers in the
Sierra. Infant and maternal mortality rates in the Puno Department are about
101/1,000 and 9.8/1,000, respectively. Respiratory tract (33%) and intestinal
tract (15%) infections are the most prevalent causes of mortality. In both
cases, malnutrition is an important conditioning factor. Most causes of
morbidity are traceable to inadequate personal hygiene, lack of immunization,
and absence of potable water and sewage disposal facilities. Finally,
nutritional levels are inadequate in the region, e.g., a 1975 survey carried
out in rural areas of the Puno Department demonstrated that caloric and
protein requirements were covered only to the extent of 64% and 69%, respec-
tively. Nutritional deficits were especially notable in the group under five
years of age. The project proposed herein would be directed at overcoming
these obstacles to increasing farm output and improving rural living conditions
in one of the poorest areas of the Sierra.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Physiography
3.01      The Department of Puno, with a population of about 780,000, is on
the southeastern border of Peru. The Juliaca micro-region project area lies
wholly within the Department. The total land area of the micro-region
is 855,800 ha, in a strip from Lake Titicaca at 3,810 meters above sea level
northwest to the divide (at about 5,000 meters) between the Sierra and the
Costa. The physiography of the micro-region is generally homogeneous, con-
sisting mainly of a wide elevated plateau, cut in several places by valleys,
b-at generally flat, with only gently undulated scattered features. Most of
the agricultural lands are located at the lower part, the elevations ranging
between +3,810 m and +4,200 m. The general slope of the topography of the area
is toward its main hydrological catchment basin, Lake Titicaca, which covers
an area of 8,100 km2 and has a maximum depth of about 212 m.



-9-
Climate
3.02      The climate is semi-dry and cool.  Some 87% of the annual average
rainfall of 565 mm is concentrated in the summer months of November to
April. Altitude and proximity to Lake Titicaca are principal factors affect-
ing the range and variability of temperature; as one moves farther from the
lake and upland, average temperatures are lower, their range widens and the
probability and intensity of frosts during winter months increases. Average
monthly temperatures at the lakeside (Capachica) vary from 5.70 in June
and July to 8.60 in January. Further inland at Lagunillas the average
0                 ~~~~~~~6
monthly temperature in July is 3.80 and in November is 7.7 . Average
annual evapotranspiration is about 500 mm. Climatic data recorded at two
climatological stations are shown in Annex 2, Table 1.
Soil and Water Resources
3.03      Most of the soils in the altiplano area are of sedimentary and
alluvial origin and contain a moderate amount of nutrients, although somewhat
deficient in nitrogen and phosphorus. The soils of the micro-region are
relatively well supplied with potassium, pH is neutral to moderately alkaline,
and are generally of medium fertility, requiring in some cases nitrogen and
phosphoric chemical fertilizers. The quality and the genetic and morphological
characteristics vary within the area and, consequently, so does their suitability
for agricultural use. In some parts of the micro-region they would need surface
drainage and in a few cases also underground drainage. According to a soils
survey carried out by ONERN in 1965, an area of about 42,000 ha is classified
as Classes III and IV, considered as suitable for intensive annual and perma-
nent crops, with relatively good natural fertility and productive capacity.
Another 152,000 ha belong to Class V, which are suitable mainly for cultivated
and improved pastures, but would require careful management and drainage.
3.04      Surface waters drain into the main hydrological catchment basin of
the area, Lake Titicaca. The main rivers are the Coata, Cabanillas, Lampa,
Illpa and Ramis. The existing hydrological information on these surface water
resources is incomplete and the records in some places cover only a short time
period. Groundwater is presently utilized only on a small scale, by shallow
wells, mainly for domestic uses. They are spread over the whole area, are of
rude construction and most of them are unprotected from contamination. There
appears to be substantial groundwater potential for cropping and livestock
uses, but the full extent of its availability has not yet been sufficiently
studied.
Communications
3.05      The town of Juliaca is the main commercial center of Puno Department.
Two trunk roads cross the project area. The Arequipa-Juliaca-Puno-Desaguadero
road is the main route to the Pacific Coast and also carries relatively heavy
cargo traffic originating in or bound for Bolivia. Except for a relatively
short paved stretch from Juliaca to Puno, this road is gravel surfaced and in



- 10 -
poor condition. A second road from Cuzco to Juliaca serves as the main route
in the southern highlands and is also gravel surfaced and in relatively poor
condition, especially during the rainy season. In all, the road network in
the project area consists of about 302 km of gravel-surfaced roads, 323 km of
dirt-surfaced  oads and 35 km of paved road.  Except for this last component,
the roads system is in poor condition, much of it permitting little or no
passage during the summer rainy season, and requires an intensive repair,
upgrading and improved routine maintenance program. The principal town in the
project area, Juliaca, also lies on the main Cuzco-Arequipa rail line, with
daily passenger and cargo service, and has an airport served by a commercial
airline.
Population and Employment
3.06      According to the 1972 national census, the total population of the
Department's 23 administrative districts which comprise the Juliaca micro-region
was about 165,000; 113,300 persons (68%) lived in rural areas and 51,700 (32%)
lived in urban areas, of which Juliaca (39,000 pop.) was the principal one.
Population growth from 1940 to 1972 was 1.5%, mainly in urban areas (4.5%
p.a.) rather than in rural areas (0.7% p.a.). Of the total rural population
of 118,000 estimated to live in the project area in 1978, the economically
active population was about 31,100 persons.
3.07      There are about 29,500 families in agriculture.  Some 12,370 (42%)
are classified as minifundistas, whose net income derived from farming their
land (estimated at about US$70 equivalent p.a. in 1977) is less than that
required for subsistence consumption. Their farms average about 1.1 ha and,
to the extent possible, they engage in part-time labor off their farms to
supplement their income. About 13,390 small farmers constitute a second
group, representing about 45% of the rural families. Their annual farming
income is about US$209 and their farms average about 12 ha. Medium farmers,
with more than 20 ha, number about 740 (2.5% of the total families) and have
an annual income of about US$577. Finally, about 3,000 families are members
of the seven AREs in the project area and have an annual average income of
about US$548 equivalent, derived in part from labor income on the enterprises
and in part from running their private herds (huacchas) or cropping on enter-
prise lands.
Land Tenure and Farmer Organization
3.08      Land reform was carried out in the project area in the early 1970s,
when a series of haciendas were incorporated into seven large AREs. The
present land distribution situation is summarized below and presented in
greater detail in Annex 2, Table 2:



- 11 -
Average
Farm                                    Average Area
Category                         Size        Total Area       Families    per Family
(ha)        (ha)    %     No.       %        (ha)
Private Farmers
Minifundistas                   1.1      13,605    2   12,370   42          1.1
Small Farmers                  12.2    163,177   19   13,390   45          12.2
Medium Farmers                 93.2      69,003    8        740    3       93.2
Sub-total                     9.3    245,785   29   26,500   90           9.3
AREs
Associative Enterprises    52,766    369,363   43    3,000   10           123.1
Operations of ARE Members        45    122_671   14   (2,700)  (9)         45.4
Sub-total                             492,034   57    3,000   10       164.0
Other Lands (communal,
state, etc)                       -    117_981   14           -    -
TOTAL                                 855,800  100   29,500  100
3.09      The agrarian reform focussed on the expropriation of large farms,
and had little or no impact on the 90% of the farm families living off those
haciendas. The relatively few families on the AREs manage over half the area
in farms, partly within the associative enterprises and partly through usufruct
of ARE land; a much smaller share of the land is managed by private farmers.
Nevertheless, private farms account for about 80% of croplands, while the AREs
are predominantly livestock enterprises, based on extensive grazing of natural
pastures. Almost half of the livestock in the project (mainly sheep, secondly,
cameloids, and, finally, cattle) are on the AREs; about 10% of all livestock are
in herds owned by individual ARE members, but graze on ARE lands. Thus, while
the associative enterprises are operated as large units under the direction
of a hired manager, the individual pursuits of ARE members on ARE lands are
not insignificant.
Crop and Livestock Production
3.10      There are presently some 16,000 ha of crops in the micro-region.
About half this area is in potato production, one-quarter in quinua, 20%
in barley and small amounts in canihua, beans, lupines, and such. Livestock
output includes about 3,300 m tons of meat (slightly over half from sheep),
1.2 million liters of milk and 1,100 m tons of wool and fibers from sheep and
alpaca. There is also an appreciable amount of cattle fattening undertaken
(mostly by minifundistas and small farmers); live animals are then shipped to
coastal areas for finishing and slaughter.
Regional Institutions
3.11      The Puno Regional Development Organization (ORDEPUNO) was created
by Decreto Ley 22214 in June 1978 (Chart 1). Its predecessor agencies were
the Puno Department Committee (COMDEP) and the Puno Development Corporation



- 12 -
(CORPUNO). The Chief of ORDEPUNO has the rank of Minister; the Regional
Offices of the various national ministries (agriculture, health, education,
transport, and such) are under his control and their budgets are established
by ORDEPUNO according to regional priorities and plans and the general finan-
cial appropriations it receives from the Central Government.
3.12      The Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Food (DRAA) is headquar-
tered in Puno. In 1972 the total professional and technical staff numbered
411. Of these, 43 are presently located in the micro-region, assigned to the
Sub-Directorates of Soils and Water (including administration of irrigation
districts), Crops and Livestock (including farm extension), and Forestry,
Marketing. There is no formal organized extension service in the project
area. The several small agricultural agencies scattered throughout the area
are staffed by technicians trained in various agricultural and animal husbandry
disciplines. However, they are heavily engaged in administrative chores and,
as a result, can devote little time to establishing effective contact and
assisting farmers. The National Training Center for Agrarian Reform (CENCIRA)
operates a training facility for MAA technical staff and farmers in Lampa,
near Juliaca. The National Agricultural Research Institute (INIA) has been
operating a small experimental station at Tahuaco, south of Puno, and is just
initiating a crop research program at a new site at Illpa (in the micro-region).
However, these facilities are poorly staffed and not adequately equipped to
meaningfully address the problems of the micro-region. The National Input
Marketing Company (ENCI) operates limited storage facilities in Juliaca,
markets pasture seeds, and has four private commercial agents for marketing
fertilizers in the project area.
3.13      The Regional Directorate of Health (DRS) maintains in the project
area one general hospital (50 beds) in Juliaca (to be replaced by a larger one
presently under construction), a smaller (unequipped and unstaffed) hospital
in Lampa, three health centers, and 31 health posts. Each of the seven AREs
also maintain a health post. These facilities are staffed by five doctors
(all located in Juliaca) and 58 nurses aides. There are also 35 trained rural
health promoters and 15 trained midwives who provide primary health care,
using small medical kits. The Regional Directorate is also responsible for
carrying out the national rural potable water program. Less than 2% of the
rural population has access to potable water. The remainder takes water
directly from streams, springs and shallow wells. Those few rural systems
which exist have been constructed by the Office of Sanitary Engineering
of the Health Directorate and their operation is the responsibility of locally
formed Administrative Boards, which maintain the systems and collect beneficiary
fees to cover operating costs; the DRS provides ongoing technical supervision.
The establishment of such an Administrative Board is a precondition for the
construction of a system.
3.14      The Regional Directorate of Education (DRE), operating under ORDEPUNO,
is headquartered in Juliaca. In the Department of Puno, there are 1,398 state-
operated schools and 272 private institutions; there are some 222,000 students,
77% of whom are enrolled in primary schools. Seventy-one percent of the
approximately 6,000 teachers are in primary schools. In the micro-region,
there are about 20,000 students enrolled in primary and secondary schools
(about 55% of the population aged six to 16 years). While access to facilities



- 13 -
is reasonably good in towns and larger villages, in smaller villages and for
the relatively poorer dispersed rural population, this is an acute problem.
Moreover, the quality of physical facilities, teacher preparation and instruc-
tional materials are inadequate. The Regional Directorate also operates 38
basic vocational training schools, with some 8,000 enrollees and 217 instructors
in the Department.
3.15      The Regional Directorate of Transport and Communication (DRTC), under
ORDEPUNO, is responsible for the Departmental road system, presently consisting
of 142 km of paved roads, 1,073 km gravelled and 850 km of graded ungravelled
roads and 2,251 km of unimproved roads open only to seasonal vehicular traffic.
Its staff comprises eight civil engineers, seven topographers, two draftsmen,
one soils mechanics laboratory technician, 86 office staff and about 400
laborers. Major equipment items are seven dump trucks, three front loaders,
five graders and one tractor. There are four local offices outside Puno (one
in Juliaca) and two motor pools (also one in Juliaca).
3.16      The Juliaca Agency of BAP operates under the Puno branch and parti-
cipated in the previous Bank agricultural credit project. Its total staff of
31 includes five crop and livestock credit officers, and one field inspector.
Its jurisdiction includes the project area. 1/ In 1978, it made some 4,800
loans for S/. 968.7 million. While its short-term lending is to both private
farmers and AREs, the latter account for most of its long-term lending.
Nevertheless, in 1977, 96% of its subloans were less than S/. 150,000 each.
During the past two years, loans overdue have averaged 8% to 9% of the port-
folio, which is below the national average.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
4.01      Rural development in the Sierra has been an important topic in the
Bank's discussions on sectoral development issues with the Government. After
several sectoral and identification missions in the early and mid-1970s, it
was agreed with the Ministries of Agriculture and Food (since fused into a
single Ministry - MAA) in early 1977 that the preparation of a first-phase
rural development project in the Department of Puno should be initiated. A
working group was established under the chairmanship of the Director of the
Puno Agrarian Region, with the active involvement of the various regional
agencies expected to participate in the proposed project. This group prepared
a project feasibility study under the guidance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program. The feasibility study was completed in mid-1978 and sent to the Bank
in October of that year. A Bank mission visited Peru to appraise the project
in June 1979.
1/   The only part of the project area not served by the Juliaca agency is the
SAIS Buena Vista, which is within the jurisdiction of the Puno Office.



- 14 -
B. Brief Description
4.02      The objectives of the proposed project would be to increase agricul-
tural produc- on on approximately 20,000 ha of rainfed crop and pasture lands
and 4,100 ha of irrigated lands in the project area, thereby increasing the
incomes of approximately 17,000 low-income rural families, and to improve the
quality of life of rural families living in the project area.
4.03      To accomplish these objectives, the project would provide for:
(a) Rehabilitation and construction of small irrigation systems,
benefitting about 4,100 ha;
(b) Agricultural credit to finance on-farm investments and incremental
production costs,
(c) Planting some 1,500 ha of forest trees for soil conservation and
fuel;
(d) An intensive crop and livestock extension program, a nutrition
program and technical assistance to promote and strengthen
small rural industries, all carried out by the Project Unit;
(e) Support to applied crop and livestock research programs, an
associated training and demonstration program and an irrigation
training and demonstration center;
(f) Rehabilitation and upgrading of rural roads, strengthening the road
maintenance capability of the Transport Ministry in the micro-region,
and construction of six post offices in the micro-region;
(g) Construction and equipping rural health facilities, training and
equipping rural health agents, and equipping the already constructed
small hospital in Lampa;
(h) Installation of small communal potable water systems;
(i) Constructing and equipping vocational training centers; and
(j) Studies to prepare a second-phase project covering a much larger
area in the Southern Altiplano.
A Project Unit responsible for project execution would be established within
ORDEPUNO.



- 15 -
C. Detailed Features
Irrigation
4.04      The Huata-Quita Irrigation System.   This system was originally
constructed in the 1960s to serve some 800 ha. Only the principal civil works
were completed and presently some 170 ha are irrigated. Water is supplied by
gravity flow from the Cabanillas River. Under the project, the headworks
would be rehabilitated, the main lined canal repaired (and an additional
2.5 km lined) and regulating and distribution structures installed. In
addition, 8.7 km of lateral irrigation canals, 36 km of sublaterals, 7.2 km
of drainage collectors and 21 km of drainage ditches would be constructed.
A ditch tender's house would also be constructed. The rehabilitated system
would adequately serve some 600 ha, benefitting about 424 families. Cost
estimates are presented in Annex 2, Table 3.
4.05      The Cabanillas Irrigation System.  Located about 10 km downstream,
this system was constructed at about the same time as the Huata-Quita system.
Again, only the principal civil works were provided for about 1,200 ha; as
a result, only about 20% of the area has been irrigated in recent years. The
system presently consists of a gravity intake on the Cabanillas River, 17.2 km
of main canal (5.5 km lined) and some 52 (deteriorated) distribution outlet
structures. Rehabilitation comprises repair of the headworks, repair of exist-
ing lining and lining of an additional 1 km of the principal canal, construc-
tion or repair of several structures (overflow gate, conduits, aqueducts, and
gates on distribution outlets), and construction of 15.4 km of laterals and
29.7 km of sublaterals. In addition, about 5 km of main drains, 7 km of
lateral drains and 35 km of on-farm drains are envisaged. A ditch tender's
house would also be constructed. The rehabilitated system would adequately
serve some 1,000 cropped ha, benefitting about 600 families. The water supply
available from the Cabanillas River and the demand generated by the Huata-
Quita and Cabanillas systems are presented in Annex 2, Table 4, while cost
estimates appear in Annex 2, Table 5.
4.06      The Taraco Irrigation System.  This system, supplied by the Ramis
River, was originally constructed in the late 1960s. Water is lifted some
32 meters from the river by a set of five pumps to a 17.5-km main canal
(14.3 km lined) to serve (originally) some 2,000 ha. In recent years, about
200 ha have been irrigated. The pumping units have been poorly maintained and
need repair. Structures for distribution and operational control for the most
part also need basic repairs. Under the project, the intake structure would
be repaired and upgraded, an additional pumping unit installed, two pumps
overhauled and the other pumps inspected and repaired, and the structure
housing the pumps improved. Lining of 5 km of the main canal would be repaired,
an additional 2 km would be lined, and various structures along the main canal
would be built. Lateral canals (35.3 km) would be constructed (21.6 km lined),
with complementary structures and 48 km of sublateral canals provided.
A main drainage canal of 11 km and 56 km of secondary drains would be provided
and access roads (11 km) and service roads (17 km) would be constructed or
upgraded. Housing for system operators and a ditch tender would also be



- 16 -
provided. The rehabilitated system would adequately serve some 1 600 ha,
benefitting some 1,000 families. The water supply available from the Ramis
River and the demand generated by the Taraco subproject are presented in
Annex 2, Table 6. Cost estimates are presented in Annex 2, Table 7.
4.07      The Buena Vista Irrigation Sub-project.  This component is intended
to demonstrate the potential for irrigated crop production under the specific
soil and micro-climatic advantages of farmlands near Lake Titicaca. Under it
some 400 ha would be irrigated by water supplied by a small intake on the
lake, through an inlet pipeline and canal, to a pumping station with two pump
units discharging into a 1.2-km main canal, 7.5 km of laterals and 24 km of
sublaterals. About 4.5 km of drains and collectors and 8.7 km of service
roads would also be provided. Water demand and supply for this subproject
appear in Annex 2, Table 8 and cost estimates appear in Annex 2, Table 9.
4.08      Small-Scale Irrigation Systems.  A number of small-scale systems,
pumping water from wells, streams and lakes are envisaged under the project.
These would serve groups of small farmers. Such systems would comprise
developing a water source (e.g., a shallow well), installing a pump and
ancillary equipment, and providing a small distribution system, with some land
levelling where required and other on-farm works. It is anticipated that
about 60 such units would be provided under the project, serving some 500 ha.
Water requirements for typical units are presented in Annex 2, Table 10 and
cost estimates appear in Annex 2, Table 11.
4.09      Irrigation District Equipment.  The project would also provide a
small machinery pool to the Juliaca District Irrigation Sub-Directorate. This
equipment would permit the Sub-Directorate to assist in performing minor on-
farm development works for the subprojects described in paragraph 4.08. In
addition, the equipment would substantially strengthen the Sub-Directorate's
maintenance capabilities on the systems to be rehabilitated under the project
(paras 4.04 to 4.07). With this expanded capability and the continuance of
the traditional organized community system maintenance activities, supplemented
where necessary by services of local contractors, it is envisaged that these
systems would be adequately maintained. The composition and estimated cost of
this equipment set are presented in Annex 2, Table 12.
Agricultural Credit Program
4.10      Agricultural credit would be provided, on the basis of technically
and financially viable production and investment plans, to finance on-farm
investments, sucth as irrigation works (including shallow wells, pumping
equipment, distribution systems, and such), planting improved pastures and
forages, farm structures, on-farm storage facilities, tools, farm machinery
purchase or repair and--where justified--breeding stock. Subloans would also
finance incremental operating costs, e.g., land preparation, purchase of
improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, machinery services, and small
livestock fattening operations. About 14,000 small and medium producers and
seven AREs (with 3,000 member families) would benefit from this component.
Operating procedures and estimated costs and phasing of this program are
presented in paragraphs 5.11 and 5.12 and Schedule A.



- 17 -
Forestry Program
4.11      Under the forestry program, to be carried out by the Forestry Sub-
Directorate of the DRAA on marginal lands of AREs and communities, not suited
for crops and livestock, a nursery for raising seedlings would be established
in the first year, while in the three ensuing years, some 1,500 ha of plantations
of Eucalyptus globulus (75%), Cupressus goveniana (15%) and Cupressus macrocarpa
(10%) would be planted. Families in the areas to be benefitted by these forests
would provide the labor for establishing and caring for the forests, under DRAA
supervision. A small program of adaptive trials with several other varieties
would also be carried out. Approximately 2,850 rural families would benefit
by having a new source of badly needed fuel and additional income from sale
of wood cuttings. Moreover, the animal wastes presently used for fuel could
instead be applied to the soil, thereby improving its physical and nutrient
status. Estimated costs of the forestry program appear in Annex 2, Table 15.
Project Unit
4.12      A Project Unit (PU) would be equipped, trained and headquartered in
Juliaca, with additional agencies in Lampa and Santa Lucia. The PU would super-
vise and coordinate the various project components carried out by the other
participating agencies. It would directly execute the farm and ranch extension
program, under which crop, livestock and irrigation agents operating out of
these three offices would work with groups of small and medium farmers and the
AREs. About 17,000 families would benefit from this program, the details of
which are set out in paragraphs 5.08 and 5.09. A program to promote improved
nutrition practices and expanded output of subsistence foodstuffs among some
6,000 subsistence and minifundia farm families living in about 40 communities
in the project area would also be carried out by specialized nutrition staff
of the PU (para 5.10). Finally, a small staff would also promote and provide
technical assistance for small rural industries. Further details on the
activities and functions of the PU are presented in Chapter V. The detailed
staffing and budgets are presented in Annex 2, Tables 16 to 21.
Research Program
4.13      The research component would support the establishment of a crop and
livestock experiment station on MAA land at Illpa and improve the facilities
at the already existing Tahuaco station. The former would undertake work
applicable to the Andean valleys and plateau, and the latter would carry out
work appropriate to the project area in the vicinity of Lake Titicaca. The
costs of this program are summarized in Annex 2, Table 22. A small irrigation
training and demonstration center would also be established at Pirapi to
undertake a limited research program on suitable techniques for irrigating
crops and pasture in the area and to train extension and irrigation personnel
and farmers in appropriate irrigation practices. The component includes
constructing, equipping and operating the research and training facility,
including rehabilitating and extending the irrigation infrastructure on about
14 ha belonging to the research complex. Cost estimates are presented in
Annex 2, Table 23.



- 18 -
Roads and Communications
4.14      Under the project, about 309 km of rural roads would be improved by
patching, regrading, regraveling and repairing or adding drains and culverts.
A further 206 km of unsurfaced dirt roads would be up-graded to all-weather
standards, requiring widening, grading and drainage. A set of equipment would
be procured to carry out this program and ensure adequate future maintenance.
To further improve the micro-region's communication infrastructure, new post
offices would be constructed in Juliaca, Lampa, and four small rural villages.
The estimated cost of this program is presented in Annex 2, Table 24.
Social Infrastructure
4.15      Potable Water.  The potable water supply component of the project
would be implemented by the Regional Directorate of Health (DRS) of ORDEPUNO.
It envisages providing potable water to 46 communities, four health centers
and 26 health posts. It is estimated that about 53,000 persons would benefit.
For the most part, water would be supplied by shallow wells equipped with
manual or windmill-operated pumps. A few systems would be fed by springs
or pumping from rivers. No house connections would be provided under the
project. Simple filtration would be provided, but water sources would be
chosen so as to minimize the need for additional treatment. In addition,
in about 30 communities and at the health centers and health posts, public
laundry and shower facilities would be provided. The Sanitary Engineering
Office of the Ministry of Health has prepared a series of basic designs for
rural potable water facilities, which are constructed under the National Rural
Potable Water Program. These units are designed to serve groups of about 200
persons with an average daily supply of up to 40 to 60 liters. Beneficiary
investment costs are in the range of US$10 to US$20 per capita. The Sanitary
Engineering Office of the Regional Directorate constructs the works and
undertakes to organize Administrative Boards which are responsible for oper-
ating and maintaining these systems, under this office's supervision. These
Boards also collect user fees to cover system operation and maintenance costs.
The cost estimate of the rural potable water program is presented in Annex 2,
Table 25.
4.16      Rural Health Facilities.  Health services in the project area are
under the supervision of Hospital Area No. 2 of the DRS. Under the project,
six new health posts providing ambulatory care would be constructed in villages
now lacking such facilities, while seven existing health posts would be
rehabilitated. The next higher level of health care is provided by the health
center, a four- to eight-bed facility. Under the project, two health posts
would be upgraded to health centers and two health centers would be rehabili-
tated. The presently existing Lampa hospital would be equipped and staffed
as a 20-bed facility. In addition to the civil works and equipment proposed
for these facilities, the program would provide three 4-wheel drive ambulances;
training, medical kits and bicycles for volunteer rural health promotors; and
a small maintenance workshop for maintaining and repairing vehicles, refrigera-
tors and electromedical equipment. The estimated costs of the health facilities
component are presented in Annex 2, Tables 26 and 27.



- 19 -
4.17      Rural Vocational Training.  The Regional Directorate of Education
(DRE) would construct and operate 23 vocational training centers under the
project. These would be located in rural villages and provide basic training
in such activities as weaving garments and rugs (using wool and alpaca fibers),
operating school or community gardens, hat-making leatherwork and brickmaking.
In some cases, day care facilities for children of mothers undergoing training
would be provided, promoting the participation of women, and the centers would
also be available for evening courses. It is anticipated that about 4,200
persons would participate in the vocational training programs during the four
years of project execution, some of whom could be employed in small rural
industries in the project area (para 5.03). The estimated cost of this
component is presented in Annex 2, Table 28.
Second-Phase Studies
4.18      The project provides for assembling data, carrying out studies
and developing practical plans for exploiting the region's limited natural
resources. Most of the information would be obtained from technical and other
reports already done on the Puno Department. Field work would be carried out,
however, to update and secure precise and accurate data where required to
produce a functional plan. The agricultural phase of this component would be
headed by an expatriate consultant, but the rest of the staff would be local
consultants. Studies would cover such topics as soils and land use capabili-
ties, appropriate cropping and animal husbandry systems, forestry resources
and reforestation needs, appropriate structuring of public sector institutions
to better promote the region's development and other economic and social
factors which may affect or inhibit development in the region. In addition,
the studies would cover investigation of the availability and development
potential of the area's hydraulic resources. The feasibility of flow regula-
tion and seasonal storage would be studied on the Illpa and Cabanillas Rivers
and Lake Umayo. Feasibility studies would also be undertaken for rehabilita-
tion of existing irrigation systems or possible new irrigation projects.
On the basis of these studies, a project preparation team would prepare a
feasibility report of such scope and detail as to enable the Bank to consider
undertaking a second-phase rural development project in the southern Altiplano.
Summary costs are presented in Annex 2, Table 29.
D. Project Costs
4.19      The project would be implemented over a period of about four and
one-half years (Chart 2). Total project costs amount to US$27.3 million, in-
cluding a foreign exchange component of US$12.1 million, or 44%. Base costs,
totalling US$20.3 million, are calculated according to May 1979 prices. Costs
of civil works are estimated according to recent experience with similar
classes of works in the highlands; a 3% tax on the cost of civil works, paid
by contractors and amounting to about US$0.1 million equivalent, is included.
Costs of imported goods are estimated CIF Callao, excluding domestic inland
transport costs to the project area. The average fees for foreign consultants
were estimated at US$8,000 per man-month, including salaries, allowances,
travel and living expenses, overhead and profit. Physical contingencies,
estimated at US$1.6 million, were calculated at 10% for civil works, equipment,



- 20 -
salaries, other operating expenses and activities financed under the farm and
ranch credit program. Price contingencies, expressed in US dollars, are
US$5.5 million and have been estimated to average 10% p.a. for equipment and
civil works in 1979, 9% in 1980, 8% in 1981 and 7% in 1982 to 1985. It has
been assumed that deviations between international and internal inflation
would be offset by compensating changes in the exchange rate, as has been the
government's policy in the past few years. Project costs are summarized on
the following page. The expected phasing of expenditures is presented in
Annex 2, Table 30.
E. Project Financing
4.20      The Bank loan of US$15.0 million, 55% of project costs, would cover
the foreign exchange cost of US$12.1 million and the equivalent of US$2.9
million (about 19%) of local currency costs. The Government of Peru would
provide counterpart funds equivalent to US$11.6 million, or 42% of total
project costs, and project beneficiaries would finance the equivalent of US$0.8
million, or 3% of total project costs. The proposed financing plan is detailed
in Annex 2, Table 31, and is summarized below:
Project
Item             Beneficiaries    Government          Bank          Total
US$M     %       US$M    %      US$M     %    US$M      %
Equipment                                     0.41    20    1.67    80    2.08       8
Civil Works                                   1.18    20    4.71    80    5.89    22
Operating Costs                               0.66    20    2.63    80    3.29    12
Training and Studies                          0.10    10    0.90    90    1.00       4
Technical Assistance                                         1.09   100    1.09      3
Farm Investment Credit      0.43    9         4.40    91        -     -    4.83    18
Farm Production Credit      0.19    9         1.97    91        -     -    2.16      8
Contingencies               0.17    2         2.83    41    4.00    57    7.00    25
TOTAL                  0.79    3       11.55    42   15.00    55   27.34   100
4.21      To help assure a prompt initiation of the project, recruitment and
training of Project Unit staff and extension personnel would begin in early
1980, as would a study of Cabanillas River flows and finalizing the designs
and preparing procurement documentation for irrigation civil works. For
this reason, retroactive financing of up to US$140,000 equivalent is proposed
to help cover eligible expenditures after January 1, 1980, but before the
loan is signed. The Government would be the borrower and would repay the
loan, including interest, and bear the foreign exchange risk. The Bank loan
of US$15 million would be for 17 years, including four years of grace, at the
interest rate prevailing at the time of Board approval. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that adequate counterpart
funds would be provided to the participating agencies in order to properly
staff, operate and maintain project facilities.



P ERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost
Foreign    B ase
Item                         Local                Foreign               Total               Local              areigs,           Total         Exchange   Cost
-sI----- -5 .,000 - - - -- -                                    ------$   - .---------------
Irrigation Works
Huata-Quit. System                       102,718.0             44,022.0            146,740.0             466,900             200,100            667,000         30
Cabanillae System                         96, 408.4            41,318.2            137,726.6              438,220            187,810            626,030         30
Taraco System                            195,364.4             94,063.2            289,427.6              888,020            427,560          1,315,580         J3
Buena-Vista System                        84,854.0             44,682.0            129,536.0              385,700            203,100            588,800         35
Small-Scale Systems                       26,748.7             17,449.3             44,198.0              121,585             79,315            200,900         35
Equipment                                  8,426.0             32,076.0             40 502.0               38.300            145.800            184.100         79         _
Subtotal                               514,519.5            273,610.7            788,130.2           2,338,725          1,243,685           3,582,410         35         18
Crop and Livestock Credit Program
On-farm Investment                       433,965.2            628,154.8          1,062,120.0            1,972,569          2,855,249          4,827,818          59
Farm Production Inputs                   166,652.6            309,498.0            476,150.6              757,512          1,406.809          2 164 321         65         _
Subtotal                               600,617.8            937,652.8          1,538,270.6           2,730,081           4,262,058          6,992,139         tl         34
Project Unit
Project Supervision and Farm
Extension Staff                        462,210.4                -                462,210.4            1,937,320             -               1,937,320
Technical Assistance                          -               183,040.0             183,040.0              -                 832,000            832,000        100                0
Equipment                                  1,376.7             30,947.0             38,683.7              35 ,167            140,668            175,835         64
Vehicle OilH                              15,977.3             12,226.7             28,204.0               72,624             55,576            128,200         43
Facilities                                13,899.8              4,500.1              18,399.9              63,181             20,455             83,636         24
Nutrition Program                        105,139.5             38,190.5            143,330.0              477,907            173,593            651,500          26
Training                                  38,329.9              6,200.9             44,530.9              174,227             28,186            202,413          14       _
Subtotal                               607,293.7            275,105.2            882,398.9            2,760,426          1,250,478          4,010,904         31        20,
Forestry Program                           112,579.3-            25,827.1             138,406.4             511,724            117,396            629,120          19         3
Research Program                           101,154.2             94,059.5             195,213.7            .459,792            427,543            887,335          48        4
Roadls and Communicattons                  219,017.7            190,163.6            409,181.3              995,535            864,380          1,859,915          47        9
Social Infrastructure
Rural Health Program                      43,048.1             40,574.6             83,622.7              195,673            184,430            380,103         49
Po,table Water Program                   114,690.2             49,153.1            163,843.2              521,319            223,423            744,74'          30
Rural Vocational Training C*nters         41,45                29,185.2              70,644.6             188,452            132,6611           321,1           41
SubtotaL                               199,197.7            118,912.9            318,110.5             905,444             540,513          1,445,957         37         7
Second-Ph.as  Studies                      138,045.6             66,415.8             204,461.4             627,480            301,890             929,370         32        5
Bas" Costs                               2,492,425.5          1,981,747.5          4,474,173.0           11,329,207          9,007,943         20,357,150          44      100
Cont inger,cies
Physlcal (107.)                               -                   -                    -                  863,977            686,955          1,550,932         44         8
Price                                                                                                  3,037,787           2,4I5,36'9         5,453,156         44        27
To,tal Eitiested Costs                                                                                   15,230,971         12,110,2(7         ?7,341,238         44       134
Dl.en,ber 12, 1979



- 22 -
F. Procurement
4.22      Procurement of equipment, civil works and consultants' services would
be in accordance with Bank guidelines, which would be reviewed with the autho-
rities during negotiations.
Equipment
4.23      Contracts for equipment whose cost is estimated to exceed US$150,000
per package would be let in accordance with Bank guidelines for international
competitive bidding (ICB). In such cases, qualified local suppliers and those
from Latin American Free Trade Association and Cartagena Agreement member coun-
tries would be accorded a preference representing the difference between the
prevailing duty actually applicable and the duty applicable to goods imported
from non-member countries, or 15 percent on the c.i.f. price, whichever is
lower. In other instances, to the extent practicable, items to be procured
would be grouped into lots not less than US$50,000 equivalent and advertised
for local competitive bidding; for such contracts the borrower would submit
to the Bank the invitation for bid (IFB), the specifications and other bidding
documents, for prior review. After evaluation of bids, the borrower would
furnish to the Bank the evaluation report, his recommendation as regards the
proposed award, and the draft contract for Bank review prior to its being
signed. For contracts for less than US$50,000 equivalent, the Bank would
review the contracts and supporting documentation once the contract is signed
and prior to the submission of the first withdrawal request.
Civil Works
4.24      Contracts for civil works under the project whose cost is estimated
to exceed US$500,000 equivalent would be let in accordance with Bank guide-
lines for ICB. Owing to the relatively small scale of most civil works
proposed and their dispersed nature, relatively few contracts of this size are
anticipated under the project. Even for such larger contracts, the relative
isolation of the region would probably discourage participation of foreign
contractors. Civil works contracts for less than US$500,000 but greater than
US$100,000 equivalent would be let according to local competitive bidding
procedures (LCB) acceptable to the Bank, with prior Bank review of IFB
documents, proposed awards and draft contracts prior to their signing. This
prior review by the Bank would also apply to force account proposals estimated
to cost over US$100,000 equivalent. For smaller amounts, the Bank would review
contracts or force account proposals and supporting documentation once the
contract is signed or force account proposal is finalized and prior to the
submission of the first withdrawal request. Works carried out under force
account would be limited to the roads rehabilitation program (total cost,
approximately US$1.3 million equivalent) and minor irrigation rehabilitation
works (repairs of existing canals and related structures, including lining
and improved cross-sections, and mechanical clearing) not suitable for or
likely to be attractive to contractors (total cost, approximately US$300,000
equivalent).



- 23 -
Agricultural Credit
4.25      Goods and services financed under the agricultural credit program
would be procured through normal commercial channels. In view of the large
number of   . b-borrowers and the wide range of items to be financed under
the project, it would not be practical to arrange for bulk procurement. An
adequate range of farm inputs and other equipment is available through local
private and public agency suppliers, who maintain adequate stocks and whose
margins are in an acceptable range.
Consultants' Services
4.26      Procurement of internationally recruited consultants' services for
the Project Unit and for the Second-Phase studies would be under terms of
reference, with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions of
employment acceptable to the Bank. The scope of the Second-Phase studies and
the staffing to carry them out would be acceptable to the Bank. Assurances on
these procurement arrangements were obtained at negotiations.
G. Disbursement
4.27      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
Category       Item and Amount Financed                 Disbursement Percentage
I     Vehicles, machinery, and equipment         100% of foreign expenditures
(US$1.67 million)                          and 80% of local expenditures
II     Civil works, including final design,       80% of total expenditures
engineering and supervision
(US$4.71 million)
III     Salaries and operating costs of the        80% of local expenditures
Project Unit, agricultural and irri-
gation research programs and forestry
program (US$2.63 million)
IV     Local training of Project Unit staff       90% of local expenditures
and Health Programs staff and carrying
out of Second Phase studies
(US$0.9 million)
V     Overseas training of Project Unit           100% of foreign expenditures
Staff (US$0.025 million)
VI     Internationally recruited consultant        100%
services to the Project Unit and
the Second Phase studies
(US$1.09 million)
VII     Unallocated (US$4.0 million)



- 24 -
4.28      The Project Director would submit withdrawal applications accompanied
by (a) normal documentation for goods, services and civil works procured from
private suppliers and contractors, or (b) statements of expenditures (SOE) for
disbursements for works undertaken on force account and eligible operating
expenditures. SOEs would be forwarded to the Project Director, who would
submit them to the Bank with the respective loan withdrawal application;
supporting documentation for these SOEs would be retained by the PU or the
participating agency, respectively, and be available for review during the
course of project supervision. A description of the disbursement procedures
against statements of expenditures is given in Annex 1. Documentation for all
other expenditures financed under the loan would be certified by the Project
Director and submitted to the Bank along with the respective loan withdrawal
application. Disbursements are expected to occur over a period of about five
years. Amounts not disbursed under any category could, upon agreement between
the Bank and the borrower, be allocated to another category.
4.29      The estimated schedule of disbursements is given below, assuming
that the date of loan effectiveness is August 1, 1980.
Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year and Quarter            at End of Quarter
(US$'000)
1981
September 30, 1980                            50
December 31, 1980                            250
March 31, 1981                               880
June 30, 1981                              1,780
1982
September 30, 1981                         2,680
December 31, 1981                          3,580
March 31, 1982                             4,570
June 30, 1982                              5,560
1983
September 30, 1982                         6,550
December 31, 1982                          7,540
March 31, 1983                             8,520
June 30, 1983                              9,500
1984
September 30, 1983                        10,480
December 31, 1983                         11,460
March 31, 1984                            12,350
June 30, 1984                             13,240
1985
September 30, 1984                        13,750
December 31, 1984                         14,190
March 31, 1985                            14,660
June 30, 1985                             15,000



- 25 -
V. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      The proposed project represents an innovative approach to rural
development in Peru to promote increases in the output and income levels and
social and economic conditions of low income beneficiaries in the project area
through the coordinated and complementary actions of various Government agencies.
A Project Unit (Chart 3) with adequate operational, financial and administra-
tive autonomy and authority would be established within ORDEPUNO (para 3.11
and Chart 1) and would be assigned overall responsibility for project imple-
mentation. This Project Unit (PU) would provide the institutional framework
for executing the project, including supervising and coordinating the various
activities to be carried out under the project by the participating agencies.
It would carry out the farm and ranch extension program (paras 5.08 and 5.09),
the nutrition program (para 5.10) and the rural enterprise promotion program.
It would supervise and coordinate the various project components carried out
by the other participating agencies.
5.02      The PU would be headed by a Project Director who would report directly
to the Chief of ORDEPUNO. The Project Director would be a nationally recruited
senior professional with qualifications and hired on terms and conditions of
employment acceptable to the Bank; he has been appointed. The progress of
project implementation would be reviewed by a Project Coordinating Committee
which would meet at least quarterly. This Coordinating Committee would be
chaired by the Chief of ORDEPUNO or his representative and be composed of a
representative of: the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Food (DRAA),
the Juliaca Agency of the BAP, the Regional Directorate of Transport and
Communications (DRTC), the Regional Directorate of Health (DRS), the Regional
Directorate of Education (DRE), the Regional Office of Planning, a representa-
tive of the participating AREs, a representative of the participating medium
and small farmers, and the Project Director (who would serve as Secretary of
the Committee but would have no vote). A quorum would be formed by the
Chairman, the two participating farmer representatives, the DRAA representa-
tive, the BAP representative, and the Project Director. Suitable assurances
were obtained at negotiations on these matters.
5.03      In carrying out the project, the Project Director would be supported
by several staff and line offices, the staffing and budgets for which appear
in Annex 2, Tables 16 to 21. PU headquarters would be at Juliaca. The main
PU interface with project beneficiaries would be through the Crop and Live-
stock Extension Office, which would have offices in the Santa Lucia zone, in
the Lampa zone, and in Juliaca. Crop and livestock extension agents, irriga-
tion agents and nutrition program staff would operate out of these three
offices, working with small and medium farmers and AREs. The ARE development
staff (Schedule A, para 4) and the Small Rural Enterprise Development staff
(Schedule A, para 9) would operate from the Juliaca office. During negotia-
tions suitable assurances were obtained on this organizational structure
of the Project Unit.



- 26 -
5.04      To assist the Project Director, two internationally recruited
experts would be contracted. One expert would be experienced in the execution
of multisectoral rural development projects and be appointed as advisor to
the Project Director for a period of 36 months. A second expert would be
experienced in the organization and execution of farm extension/farm credit
programs and be appointed for a period of 24 months as advisor to the Chief of
the Crop and Livestock Extension Office. He would also assist in establishing
and supervising training programs for farm extension agents and participating
farmers. Financing would also be provided for an additional 44 man-months of
internationally recruited short-term consultants. These would include experts
to be contracted for periods of three to six months for initial and follow-up
assistance to (a) the ARE Development staff in the managerial and financial
analysis of large farm enterprises, (b) the Planning, Programming and Budgeting
staff, (c) the Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting staff, and (d) train the
Small Rural Enterprise Development staff in identifying and preparing projects.
Both long-term and short-term consultants to the Project Unit and the interna-
tionally recruited consultant for the Second-Phase studies would be hired
under terms of reference, with qualifications and experience and on terms and
conditions of employment acceptable to the Bank. Recruitment of the two
long-term consultants for the PU and the short-term ARE Development staff
consultant are a condition of loan effectiveness. Suitable assurances on the
foregoing were obtained at negotiations.
B. Participating Agencies
5.05      Several project components would be carried out by participating
agencies not under the direct operational control of ORDEPUNO: (a) crop and
livestock research would be the responsibility of INIA, (b) training of farm
extension agents would be carried out by CENCIRA, and (c) the agricultural
credit program would be executed by BAP. In order to ensure that these parti-
cipating agencies would carry out their respective tasks, the PU would enter
into a Subsidiary Project Agreement (SPA), acceptable to the Bank, with each
of them. These agreements would define the respective responsibilities of
the PU and the agency in question as regards: (a) preparing work programs,
schedules, and budgets; (b) staff, materials, equipment and financing to be
assigned to the tasks in question; (c) procurement procedures in accordance
with those foreseen in paragraphs 4.22 to 4.26; (d) reimbursement procedures;
(e) maintenance of appropriate separate accounts which clearly identify
receipts and expenditures for activities carried out under the project and
the periodic audit of these accounts; (f) maintenance of records adequate
to permit monitoring, evaluation and reporting of progress on the assigned
tasks; and (g) full collaboration with the PU. The SPA to be signed with
INIA covering the research component would include a detailed program for
applied research and the development and testing of technological packages
to be promoted by the PU extension agents. CENCIRA, which has provided train-
ing for extension agents under other Bank projects, would execute an SPA with
the PU, setting out the composition and staffing of the training program,
which would be based on the approach developed under the training and visit
system. The SPA to be signed by the PU with BAP would cover the farm and



- 27 -
ranch sublending operations to be carried out under the project (as outlined
in paragraphs 5.11 and 5.12 and Schedule A). Moreover, each of these agencies
would prepare an annual operating plan (AOP), which would set out the objec-
tives, physical targets, contracting schedule, cost estimates, and disbursement
plan for tht .pcoming year. These AOPs would be reviewed and approved by the
PU and consolidated by it into an annual Project Investment and Operating Cost
Budget, which would be submitted annually to the Bank for approval not later
than August 1. The signing of an SPA with BAP, acceptable to the Bank, would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. For each of these components, it would
be a condition of disbursement that the relevant SPA, acceptable to the Bank,
had been received by the Bank. During negotiations suitable assurances were
obtained as regards these arrangements.
5.06      The remaining participating agencies under the project would be,
like the PU, under the authority of ORDEPUNO. Their project execution respon-
sibilities would be as follows:
(a) Construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of irrigation works             DRAA
(b)  Forest nurseries and plantations             DRAA
(c)  Roads and Communications                     DRTC
(d)  Rural Health Program                         DRS
(e)  Rural Potable Water Program                  DRS
(f)  Rural Vocational Training Program            DRE
Each of these agencies would prepare an AOP, which, together with those outlined
in the preceding paragraph, would be reviewed by the PU and consolidated into
the annual Project Investment and Operating Cost Budget, which would be sent to
the Bank for review. The PU Director would ensure that disbursements from the
Project Account were in accordance with the relevant annual Project Investment
and Operating Cost Budget approved by the Bank. During negotiations suitable
assurances of these arrangements were obtained.
5.07      The participating agencies would complete the final designs and
carry out construction of civil works under their respective components and
they would be responsible for the subsequent operation and maintenance of such
works. Where necessary to finalize designs and establish a bill of works or
quantities to provide the basis for tender documents and/or final cost esti-
mates, these agencies would hire qualified local consultants. All final
designs, technical specifications, bills of quantities and equipment lists
(with specifications thereof) would be reviewed by the PU, and those, as
described in paragraphs 4.23 and 4.24, would be submitted to the Bank with
the PU's views thereon, before bids were invited or work initiated. Procure-
ment of civil works, equipment and services would be undertaken by the



- 28 -
respective participating agencies, under the supervision of the PU and accord-
ing to the procedures outlined in paragraphs 4.22 to 4.26. Technical special-
ists in the PU would supervise construction and maintenance activities carried
out by the participating agencies under the project and ensure their adequacy.
The PU staff supervising infrastructural development activities would also
include a procurement specialist to assist participating agencies in complying
with these procedures and facilitating this process.
C. Crop and Livestock Technical Assistance Program
5.08      The crop and livestock extension program would be carried out by
approximately 50 extension agents in the PU Crop and Livestock Extension
Offices in Juliaca, Lampa and Santa Lucia. These agents would have university-
level training in their respective disciplines and have satisfactorily completed
the extension agent training program conducted by CENCIRA at its facility in
Lampa. The basic technological packages to be initially promoted by the exten-
sion agents have been developed and field tested both by INIA and under foreign
bilateral technical assistance programs, e.g., a New Zealand team in the case
of pasture management and animal health, and the Simon Bolivar Foundation in
the case of quinua. These technological packages will be further refined and
additional ones developed by INIA under its research and testing activities
and its interactions with the extension staff. The goal of the extension
program is to reach some 13,450 small farm families, 500 medium farm units and
seven AREs over a four-year period. In order to deal adequately with the
large number of small farm families, it is planned to promote the formation
of groups, where appropriate, each consisting of approximately 25 families.
Each group would apply for and receive farm credit for all members therein.
Each group would select its own leader who would see that each family receives
its respective loan allocation as well as repays its obligation. These groups,
being practical functional entities, would facilitate the operation of
the extension service and would be a vehicle for providing feed-back for
the project. Using this method, it is planned to incorporate 15% of the
participants in Year 1, 25% in Year 2, 30% in Year 3 and 30% in Year 4. The
distribution of participants by category and year over the life of the project
is estimated as follows:
Category                                   Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
Small Farmers
Cumulative participants in project        2,015      5,380      9,420    13,450
Number of Groups                              81       135        160        162
Medium Farmers
Cumulative participants in project           65        165        315        500
AREs
Cumulative participants in project            3          6          7          7



- 29 -
5.09      The number of groups assigned to each extension agent in each
district would depend on population density, terrain, road conditions and
accessibility of the farmers. Thus, in Santa Lucia, where the farmers are
widely dispersed, the area hilly and road conditions relatively poor, each
agent would be responsible for only two groups. In Juliaca District where the
farmers are-near each other, the land is level and roads comparatively
good, each agent would work with about six groups. The extension agent would
work with each group for at least a full year, during which time, he would
teach the farmers how to fill out the forms required for obtaining credit, and
provide instruction in the application of the basic technological packages,
e.g., appropriate seed varieties and planting densities, timing and quantity
of fertilizer application, pest control measures, irrigation, pasture establish-
ment and management and animal health measures, as well as other cultural
practices required to meet project goals. In carrying out these extension
tasks, the PU would be performing the tasks, which, in the past, have been the
nominal responsibility of the DRAA, but which this latter agency has been
unable to satisfactorily carry out owing to severe staff and budgetary con-
straints. As project completion approaches, the proper arrangements for a
smooth transfer of this responsibility - along with adequate staff and budget -
to DRAA would be reviewed in the light of experience under the project and
the possible execution of a Phase II project.
D. Nutrition Program
5.10      Under the project an improved nutrition extension program would
be carried out by the PU nutrition program staff, assisted by some 70 volunteer
workers, in approximately 40 communities, building upon earlier UNICEF activities.
Participating communities would be identified by the nutrition program staff
and the promoters trained under the project. Nutritional status and potential
interest of these participating communities would be ascertained. Program
staff would provide guidance in growing garden plots and raising small animals
in these communities; nutrition promoters would provide guidance in food
preservation and preparation. To a limited extent, hand tools and inputs, in
part financed from a small credit fund, would also be provided. The National
Nutrition Institute would be contracted to undertake a baseline survey of
nutritional status and annually review program achievements. It is antici-
pated that some 6,000 subsistence and smallholder farm families would benefit
from improved nutritional status promoted under this project component.
The staffing and budget of the nutrition component are presented in Annex 2,
Table 21.
E. Lending Policies and Procedures for Agriculture Credit
5.11      Subloans for on-farm investment and incremental production credit
would be channelled through the BAP, which has satisfactorily carried out five
Bank Agricultural Credit loans. Subloans would be made to individual farmers,
farmer groups and AREs, who evidence sound managerial capacity, on the basis
of technically sound and financially viable production and investment plans



- 30 -
for crop and livestock activities. Subloans would provide financing for
the purchase of incremental production inputs, including--where necessary--
machinery services, land preparation, improved seeds, fertilizers, pesticides,
animals for fattening, etc. Costs of family labor and wage payments to members
of AREs would not be covered. Investment subloans could cover costs of
on-farm development for pasture establishment and associated livestock enter-
prise structures, farm machinery and equipment, breeding animals, on-farm
irrigation and drainage facilities (including drilling and equipping of
tubewells), and storage facilities. Investment subloans to AREs could include
financing the costs of preparing investment plans and providing managerial and
technical assistance (Schedule A, para 4). Small investment subloans could
also finance breeding operations for minor species, e.g., swine, guinea pigs
and poultry. In line with present BAP procedures, subloans for incremental
production inputs (including cattle fattening operations) would be for up to
two years with a maximum grace period of six months for repayment of principal.
Subloans for on-farm investment programs, including machinery and equipment,
would not exceed 12 years, including grace periods for capital repayment of up
to five years. Other than in exceptional cases, beneficiaries would contribute
not less than 5% of farm plan costs for small subloans of less than US$5,000
equivalent and not less than 10% on larger subloans. Their contributions
could be in kind or in cash.
5.12      The interest rates (including BAP commission of 2%) for short-term
and development subloans, 31% and 33%, respectively, would be the same as those
applied by the BAP under its normal farm production and investment lending
programs. To promote participation of very poor farmers in the project,
farmers who had not earlier received BAP credit would be eligible for a one-
time only promotional subloan for production credit and one for investment
credit. The maximum amount for each promotional subloan would be US$500 equiva-
lent and the interest rate would be,18% p.a. Further subloans to these sub-
borrowers would be at standard BAP rates, which are on a par with interest
payments on time deposits. In the period 1976-78, annual inflation rates were
about 35%, 39% and 75%. The inflation rate was about 67% in 1979 and is pro-
jected to fall to about 45% within the next two years. Thus, while high in
nominal terms and double those charged by BAP up to early 1978, these standard
rates are less than one-half interest charges in other sectors and represent
negative real interest rates. 1/ If the Government's Economic Recovery
Program, currently being implemented, continues to reduce the rate of infla-
tion, then the lending rates would become positive toward the end of the
project execution period. As incomes of the beneficiaries under the proposed
project (para 3.07) are appreciably below the relative rural poverty level
(US$200 per capita), subsidized credit, to the extent that there is, would be
almost wholly concentrated on the target group. Moreover, the Government and
the Bank would periodically consult on the appropriate terms and conditions
for project sublending, taking into account changes in the rate of inflation
and capital market conditions; alterations in these aforementioned interest
rates would have to be mutually acceptable to the Government and the Bank.
Suitable assurances on these matters were obtained at negotiations.
1/   Interest costs to borrowers in other sectors are substantially increased
owing to taxes and the lending institutions' practices of, e.g., prepaid
interest and compensating balances.



- 31 -
F. Project Accounts
5.13      The Government would establish a Project Account and the necessary
subsidiary accounts for reimbursing the project activities carried out by the
PU and other participating agencies. The Project Account would be maintained
by the PU. A condition of loan effectiveness is that the Government had
authorized disbursement from this Account of an amount not less than the PU's
operating costs for the first three months of project execution. Subsequently,
this Account would be replenished by the Government on a quarterly basis, or
as the need arises, in accordance with the estimated budgetary requirements in
the annual Project Investment and Operating Cost Budget (para 5.06), which
would be submitted to the Bank not less than five months before the start of
each fiscal year during project execution. Furthermore, the Government would
establish an account in BAP for an initial amount in Soles equivalent to US$8
million to finance the Agricultural Credit Program. Suitable assurances on
the foregoing were obtained at negotiations.
G. Accounts and Auditing
5.14       Separate project accounts, with appropriate subsidiary accounts for
each project component, would be maintained by the PU and each participating
agency, respectively. These accounts, maintained according to sound accounting
principles and consistently applied, would accurately reflect receipts and
expenditures undertaken in relation to the project and clearly identify the
goods and services procured and works performed. These accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and said
audit reports, together with certified copies of the audited accounts and the
auditor's observations thereon, would be submitted to the Bank within five
months of the close of the fiscal year. Each audit report would include, as
applicable, a separate opinion as to whether the procedures and controls
relating to the use of Statement of Expenditures (Annex 1) were complied with.
Suitable assurances on these accounting and auditing procedures were obtained
during negotiations.
H. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
5.15      The Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting group established in
the PU would track project activities and evaluate performance. This group
would be headed by a qualified agricultural economist with adequate experience,
supported by a small technical staff. This group would receive and analyze
selected data from other offices of the PU and the participating agencies in
order to carry out its assignment. An internationally recruited expert (para
5.04) would assist the PU in designing a simple but sufficiently comprehensive
system for collecting data and information which would serve as a management
tool in the decision-making process and permit prompt identification of
bottlenecks in project execution. This system would also provide information
and data for evaluating the overall economic and social impact of the project



- 32 -
as well as the achievements of each project component in relation to its
objectives. The monitoring system would measure the effect of the irrigation,
credit and technical assistance programs on yields, production levels and
farmers' income. It would study farmer acceptance of proposed technological
packages (e.g., changed cropping patterns and husbandry practices and use of
improved inputs). In addition, in coordination with BAP, it would monitor
credit use and recovery. This information would provide the basis for progress
reports submitted to the Project Coordinating Committee and semi-annual
reports submitted to the Bank not later than two months after the end of each
semester, highlighting progress, problems encountered and measures taken to
resolve them, as well as operating results. Furthermore, no later than six
months after the completion of Bank loan disbursements, a project completion
report would be submitted to the Bank of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request. It would cover the execution and operation of the project,
its costs and benefits, the performance of the various participating agencies
in executing their respective components and the extent to which project
objectives were attained. Suitable assurances on these matters were obtained
at negotiations.
VI. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT, OUTPUT, AND MARKETING
A. Crop and Livestock Productivity
Cropped Area
6.01      Under the project, the land presently being cultivated in crops
would be slightly increased from 11,960 ha to 12,300 ha, and the cropping
pattern would be altered by increasing the area being devoted to potatoes and
other crops such as lupines, beans, oca and vegetables, reducing the area in
barley and omitting canihua. Quinua hectarage would remain the same. Crops
being irrigated would increase substantially from an average of about 600 ha
at present to around 4,100 ha (Annex 2, Table 32).
Yields
6.02      The major change in productivity is expected to be through increased
yields due to more and better use of improved seeds, fertilizers, pesticides,
and changes in cultivation practices. This would be promoted by an efficient
extension service, expanded and improved infrastructure and the timely provi-
sion of adequate farm production and investment credit. The supply of
improved seeds would be obtained from the research stations, these could
also be multiplied on the more progressive farms in the project area, and
would be eligible for financing under the agricultural credit program (paras
5.11 and 5.12). Among the minifundistas and small farms under rainfed condi-
tions, yields for potatoes are expected to rise from the presently very low
yield of 3 m tons/ha to 6 m tons/ha; under irrigation, they would move from
5.5 m tons/ha to 9.0 m tons/ha by the third year of the project. Similar
changes, although not as dramatic, would occur for quinua, barley and other
crops (Annex 2, Table 33). Since among the more enterprising farmers and



- 33 -
managers the yields mentioned above have already been reached and even sur-
passed, these project goals are reasonable and should be wholly achievable.
Incremental farm input requirements presented in Annex 2, Table 34 are
calculated according to the basic technological packages to be promoted by
PU extension agents.
6.03      Although frost is a problem, the low yields obtained in many
instances were not always the result of frost. Much could be attributed to
poor land preparation, late planting (the favorable growth period is rela-
tively short), poor and diseased seeds, low soil fertility, and insect as well
as disease damage. Also, many farmers, especially on the larger holdings,
know that some areas of their land are less prone to frost damage than others.
These areas have not been used intensively because of loss in fertility after
repeated use. Thus, the extension program would promote the utilization of
basic technological packages which have been successfully demonstrated in the
area and which stress site selection, soil preparation, fertilization, time-
liness in planting, the use of selected and improved seeds, as well as weed,
insect and disease control. In the latter instance, safety in using pesticides
would be emphasized.
Farm Models
6.04      Typical farm models have been prepared for each of the farm types
represented in the project area: minifundistas, small farms, medium farms and
agrarian reform enterprises (AREs). The first three are family-run operations,
while the latter are cooperative farms, the members being paid a daily wage
for their participation in crop and livestock production. All family farms
have livestock of some type and stock raising is practically the major activity
on some units. In all models, both family and hired labor have been costed at
SI. 250 per day, while costs for seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides and output
values are based on current prices at the time of appraisal.
6.05      Farm Model 1 (Annex 2, Tables 35 and 36) represents a minifundista
with an average holding of 1.1 ha. There are some 4,080 farmers in this
category. These farms are typically located near Lake Titicaca and close to
Juliaca. The farm modelled here is assumed to be under rainfed conditions
and has 0.7 ha in cultivated crops and 0.4 ha in land being browsed by sheep,
pigs or poultry. About half of the area is devoted to potatoes, one-quarter
to quinua, the balance to barley and other crops such as lupines, beans, oca
and vegetables. All hand labor is usually supplied by the farmer (average
family size being about four persons), while animal power is generally secured
by hiring or other arrangements. Livestock consists of one sheep unit
(26.5 kg body weight), poultry and some pigs. The operating income from
crops before the project is about SI. 16,079 (US$73) and from livestock it
is approximately SI. 13,030 (US$59). This produces, on average, a total
of S/. 29,109 (US$132). With the project at full development (four years),
the size of the area devoted to crops is not expected to change, but part of
the land would be placed under irrigation, and improved seeds and other
inputs would be used. Consequently, the operating income from crops would
increase to S/. 53,240 (US$242). With additional by-products from crop
production being fed to livestock and improvement in sanitation, the operating



- 34 -
income from this segment would reach SI. 51,324 (US$232). This would bring
the farmers' total income up to S/. 104,564 (US$475), excluding the return to
family labor of about US$61.
6.06      Farm Model 2 (Annex 2, Tables 37 to 38) represents a small farmer with
an average holding of 12.2 ha. There are about 9,370 farmers in this category
expected to participate in the project. It is assumed in this model that at
present approximately 0.8 ha is in cultivated crops and 11.4 ha in unimproved
or native pasture grazed by cattle and sheep. These farms are usually farther
from the lake than the minifundistas, but the crops raised and operating condi-
tions are essentially the same. The livestock on this farm is assumed to be
three head of cattle, 16.5 sheep units and a set of guinea pigs. The operating
income from crops is around S/. 18,761 (US$85) and from livestock it is
estimated at S/. 19,297 (US$88), totalling S/. 38,058 (US$173). With the
project at full development (in about four years), land in crop production
would remain the same, but some of the land would be irrigated and improved
seeds with other inputs would be utilized. These changes would increase the
output and return from crops, bringing it, on the average, to about S/. 61,542
(US$280). The increase in crop production would also furnish more feed and
by-products for livestock, as would 1 ha of improved pasture, thus increasing
their body weight. All these changes, coupled with improved sanitation, would
raise the operating income from livestock to St. 41,211 (US$187). The total
income from crops and livestock would be SI. 102,753 (US$467), excluding the
return to family labor of about US$71.
6.07      Farm Model 3 (Annex 2, Tables 39 to 41) represents a medium-sized
private farm with an average of 93 ha. There are about 500 of these farms
expected to participate in the project. These farmers, unlike the preceding
groups, use machinery and other modern inputs to some extent. Moreover, the
conditions under which they raise their livestock are much better than they
are with the smaller farmers. Because of machinery, the area devoted to food
crops is much larger than on the small farms. With about 1.1 ha in crops and
91.9 ha under natural pasture, the operating income from crops, on the average,
is at present around S/. 34,176 (US$155) and from livestock, it is SI. 22,045
(US$100). By increasing the area devoted to food crops, with 50% of it
under irrigation, and by increasing the use of modern inputs, the average
operating income from crops would reach, at full development in about four
years, S/. 211,697 (US$962). The most important change where livestock is
concerned would be the establishment of 2.4 ha in improved pasture and 3.3 ha
in artificial pasture, leaving 85.3 ha in natural pasture. These changes,
coupled with improved sanitation, would bring the operating income at full
development up to about S/. 218,163 (US$991). The total operating income
would be S/. 429,860 (US$1,954), plus increased family labor income of about
US$152.
6.08      Model 4 (Annex 2, Tables 42 to 43) represents conditions on an ARE,
which is a large multiple activity estate operated by a manager with some
experience; livestock activities are treated separately in the livestock
models. Machinery is used for crop production as well as other improved
inputs, and yields are thereby much higher than on the small farms. This
model represents average conditions where about 134 ha are devoted to crop



- 35 -
production. Operating income at present is estimated to be S/. 5,713,206
(US$25,970). With the project at full development, the operating income from
crops is expected to reach S/. 18,503,350 (US$84,106). This would be made
possible by placing about 40% of the crop land under irrigation and by greater
use of imprW  d seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides.  Labor payments to members
would increase from US$10,198 to US$11,740, (about US$326 per family) while
payments to hired laborers would increase from US$909 to US$3,181.
Ranch Models
6.09      Models have been prepared to illustrate the likely inputs and their
probable impact on productivity for three major types of livestock operations
typical of the micro-region. The development could take place on private farms
or AREs.
6.10      The sheep model (Annex 2, Tables 44 to 47) is based on 380 ha of
natural grassland carrying 860 adult sheep equivalents in an overstocked
situation. Natural pastures (10 ha) are improved by direct seeding with
legumes and phosphate, followed by annual maintenance dressings of 23 kg
P2 5; 10 ha of artificial pasture are planted, following turnips in the first
year; and 2.5 ha of rye-grass and white clover are planted. Other inputs are
fencing, buildings and water installations. At full development in year six,
carrying capacity has increased 30%, extraction from 14% to 19% and average
carcass weights by about 1 kg. Ranch income has risen from S/. 556,000
(US$2,527) to S/. 950,200 (US$4,319). About 150 sheep ranching operations
would be expected under the project.
6.11      The cattle model (Annex 2, Tables 48 to 51) is based on 700 ha
of natural grassland carrying 214 animal units (AU) in a typical overstocked
condition. Natural pastures (50 ha) are improved by direct seeding legumes
and phosphates; 50 ha of alfalfa are planted following turnips in year one;
and 16 ha of rye-grass and white clover pastures are established. Other
inputs are fencing, water installations, building and equipment. At full
development, after seven years, the number of cows milked has increased 45%,
effective milk yields have risen from 100 liters to 540 liters in 225 days,
and carcass weights have increased by about 15%. Carrying capacity is
increased by 147 AUs, but the herd still has 100 breeding cows. The avail-
ability of grazing pasture in excess of herd requirements permits small
areas to be leased (in accordance with local practice) to alleviate the
regional grazing pressure. Net income rises from S/. 420,300 (US$1,910) to
S/. 1,655,500 (US$7,525). It has been projected that about 20 cattle ranches
would participate in the project.
6.12      The alpaca model (Annex 2, Tables 52 to 55) is based on a unit of
5,000 animals occupying about 6,000 ha of natural grazing under conditions of
overstocking. Natural grasslands (100 ha) are improved by direct seeding of
clover with phosphate; 48 ha of artificial pasture are established; 100 breeding
males are purchased as well as veterinary equipment and a pick-up; and a corral,
dip, shearing shed and some fencing are installed. At full development, after
seven years, the number of AUs has not increased, but is in equilibrium with



- 36 -
carrying capacity. Fiber yields have increased from 1.2 kg to 1.7 kg; the
reproductive rate has risen from 50% to 72%; and calf mortality has fallen
40% as a result of improved nutrition, management and breeding. Net income
rises from S/. 5,312,000 (US$24,145) to SI. 10,364,000 (US$47,109). Ten
alpaca operations have been projected to participate in the project.
B. Project Output
6.13      As a result of a change in cropping patterns and application of
improved techniques and inputs promoted by the project extension service,
total production by participating farmers would show substantial increases, as
summarized below:
Without           With Project
Project      (at full development)
Crop
Potatoes (m tons)               18,976              45,473
Quinua (m tons)                    995               2,149
Canihua (m tons)                   352                   _
Barley grain (m tons)              841               1,105
Others (m tons)                    309               1,759
Livestock
Beef (m tons carcass weight)       365.3               642.1
Lamb (m tons carcass weight)       624.0             1,546.6
Wool (m tons)                      305.9               650.0
Milk ('000 1)                    1,068.5             3,285.1
Alpaca fiber (m tons)               49.2                68.1
Potato production would move up from around 19,000 m tons to about 45,500 m
tons, an increase of 26,500 m tons; quinua would rise from about 1,000 to
2,149 m tons, an increase of over 1,100 m tons; barley grain would move from
approximately 840 m tons to 1,100 m tons; and other crops would go from around
310 m tons to 1,760 m tons. Canihua, which is relatively unprofitable, would
be replaced by the nutritionally superior quinua, for which technology has
made possible substantial increases in yield.
6.14      For the minifundistas and small farms, the incremental net value of
production at full development would be S/. 549,324,000 (US$2.5 million),
while for the medium farms, the increase would be S/. 81,411,000 (US$0.4
million) and for the AREs, it would be S/. 88,727,000 (US$0.4 million). The
total incremental net value would be V/. 719,462,000 (US$3.3 million). As the
above figures indicate, the minifundistas and small farmers provide 75% of the
incremental net value of crop production.
6.15      Owing largely to the improved animal nutrition and sanitation prac-
tices to be promoted by the project extension service on participating ranches,
supported by adequate and timely investment credit, milk output would increase



- 37 -
from some 1.07 million liters to 3.3 million liters, while beef production
would rise from 365.3 m tons to 642.1 m tons (carcass equivalent). Wool
output would rise from 305.9 m tons to 650 m tons and mutton from 624 m tons
to 1,546.6 m tons (carcass equivalent). Output of alpaca fiber on participat-
ing ranches would rise from about 49.2 m tons to 68.1 m tons at full develop-
ment. The incremental value of output of these items sums to abour S/. 484.3
million (US$2.2 million). In addition, further livestock output would result
from the small poultry, guinea pig and cattle fattening operations to be
promoted on the plots of minifundistas and small farmers under the project.
C. Marketing
6.16      Especially for the minifundistas and small farmers, increased output
generated under the project would in part be directed at improving their
nutritional status. The remainder of these foodstuffs would be sold largely
through local marketplaces and weekly fairs. For livestock products, a
slaughterhouse is operating at Cabanillas, and there is a well-established
series of local livestock fairs where fattened cattle are purchased for
shipment to the coast. A number of private traders compete with two mutually
owned enterprises (EPS), Incolana and Alpacaperu, for the purchase of wool and
alpaca fiber to sell to national textile producers and for export. A public
sector enterprise, ENCI, rents cold storage facilities, primarily for potatoes,
in Juliaca, while there is considerable private interest in expanding facili-
ties for the processing of quinua into flour and breakfast flakes.
6.17      The farm level prices of the crop and livestock output to be produced
under the project are those in effect in April/June 1979, largely during the
harvest season. For the most part, the prices of these goods are not under
government control. A major exception is beef, whose slaughter and sale
during the first two weeks of the month in the Lima area is prohibited by
the government. This measure does not apply in the Sierra or the major coastal
markets of the Puno Department. In local markets, the municipal governments
typically post maximum prices for basic foodstuffs, although the main intent
here is to smooth out seasonal fluctuations. Prices used in the financial and
economic analyses are presented in Annex 2, Table 56.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Crop and Livestock Operations
7.01      Based on the technical coefficients incorporated into the farm and
ranch models presented in the previous chapter, the production cost and income
results therein are summarized below:



- 38 -
Net Income
(Including Cash Sales
and On-farm Consumption)
With
Project
Without   (after debt  Investment    Rate of    Number of
Model           Project      service)    Per Farm       Return    Participants
---------------US$----------------    (%)
Minifundista             176      460              112        100+         4,080 families
Small Farmer             225      488              313       100+         9,370 families
Medium Farmer            493      642            4,416         35            500 families
Agrarian Reform
Enterprise (ARE)  36,167   75,699            95,788         67          3,000 families
Sheep Ranch           3,270    4,483 /1         7,005          15            150 ranches
Cattle Ranch          3,203    7,521 /1        25,968          15             20 ranches
Alpaca Ranch         34,972   52,578 /1        53,727          38             10 ranches
/1   Nominal investment subloan debt service is adjusted for inflation.
Although the models are merely illustrative, these results suggest that
beneficiary incomes would increase significantly under the project, providing
sufficient incentive for farmers in the project area to participate in the
program. The relatively high rates of return for the cropping models owe to
the relatively low investment required vis-a-vis the effectiveness of applying
the improved technological packages to be promoted under the project. Never-
theless, family incomes will, for the most part continue to be low, even
by the standard of relative poverty rural income levels (estimated at US$200
per capita).
B. Project Cost Recovery
7.02      The Peruvian Water Law (Decreto Ley 17752, July 24, 1969) states
that beneficiaries should, through volumetric charges, pay the full costs of
operation and maintenance of irrigation works as well as the costs of carrying
out investments for these systems. In reality, throughout the country only
nominal 0 and M charges are actually imposed on system beneficiaries; these
presently range from S/. 0.005 to S/. 0.011 per cubic meter in the various
systems in the project area. These levels are not adequate to cover such
costs. While the collection record has been good in recent years, the amounts
collected are far short of the actual cost of operating and maintaining the
districts in question, especially in the case of Taraco, whose budget for pump
fuel is wholly deficient. As a result, systems have seriously deteriorated
and much of the current rudimentary maintenance is provided through community
organized groups of farmers (mingas) who perform what tasks they can with
simple tools.



- 39 -
7.03      It is currently MAA's policy to bring into effect the water charge
provisions of the Water Law. Therefore, during negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Government would: (a) no later than June 30, 1984, and at
least every two years thereafter, review and adjust as required the level and
structure of water charges, taking into account inflation and beneficiary
ability to pay slich charges, to ensure that they cover: (i) full operation
and maintenance costs, and (ii) as much as practical of the investment costs
in accordance with the farmers' payment capacity; (b) return annually to the
irrigation district an amount equal to cover the full 0 and M costs; (c)
appropriately staff and equip the irrigation district so as to adequately
maintain irrigation systems in the project area; and (d) by March 31, 1984
present a socio-economic study of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request on beneficiary repayment capacity to establish appropriate
charges for recovery of investment costs in the irrigation subprojects carried
out under the project. These arrangements are consistent with those in effect
in other Bank irrigation projects in Peru.
7.04      In the case of small pump irrigation systems, a user's association
would be formed for each system, and each association would enter into a
participation (cost-sharing) agreement with the DRAA, based on a model
agreement acceptable to the Bank, which, inter alia, would specify that the
beneficiaries would participate in financing not less than 30% of a sub-
project's costs, up to 10% of which could be contributed as labor; the rest
would be in cash, e.g., by financing, through a BAP subloan, the purchase of
equipment. The participation agreement would also commit the user association
to establish and collect water charges adequate to cover 0 and M costs and,
when applicable, to recover the appropriate share of project investment cost.
No construction would commence on a system until an agreement had been signed.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained on these matters.
7.05      In Annex 2, Table 57 the rent and cost recovery indices are presented
for each of the four irrigation systems to be constructed under the project.
In arriving at the results presented therein, it has been assumed that 0 and M
charges, annually adjusted for inflation, would be collected from all farmers.
Owing to the low income levels of the majority of subproject beneficiaries, it
has been assumed that investment cost recovery would be over a 50-year period
at no interest. The actual charges introduced under the project would depend
on the findings of the socio-economic study of beneficiary repayment capacity
to be carried out by June 30, 1984 (para 7.03).
7.06      The fiscal burden of the project on the Government's finances would
be relatively limited. The cost of the agricultural credit program, which
represents 34% of total project costs, would be recovered through subloan
repayments. On the basis of beneficiary repayment capacity (para 7.05),
investment costs in the irrigation systems would only be recovered over a
relatively long period of time. The costs of operating and maintaining both
irrigation and potable water systems would be covered by beneficiaries. Costs
of the PU and the forestry, research, roads, and social infrastructure invest-
ment would not be recovered. Owing to the low levels of farmer income in
the region, incremental Government revenues from income and property taxes
would be negligible, although some increase of tax receipts from AREs would



- 40 -
occur. There would also be increased Government revenues from export duties
on wool and llama fiber as these activities expand. Counterpart financing
requirements for the project in CY 1980 would account for less than 0.5% of
the public sector investment budget for the agricultural sector and, in sub-
sequent years of project execution, would be in the range of 1% to 2%; thus,
it would not represent an unacceptable fiscal burden.
VIII. PROJECT BENEFITS, ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
AND PROJECT RISKS
A. Project Benefits
8.01      The increased crop and livestock production (paras 6.13 to 6.15) and
improved living conditions expected to result from carrying out this project
would benefit the rural population in one of the poorest zones of Peru.
Investments in improved social infrastructure should also have a marked impact
on the quality of life for this target group. Labor demand on the farms
and ranches of project beneficiaries would increase by about 2,084 man-years
at full development, making an important contribution to alleviating the
problem of rural unemployment and underemployment in the project area. Eighty
percent of this increased labor demand would occur on minifundia and small
farms. Government institutions to provide applied research and extension
services, operate and maintain irrigation systems, upgrade and maintain rural
roads, health, potable water and educational services to this depressed zone
would be strengthened. It is anticipated that, on the basis of the experience
gathered with this project and the Second-Phase studies carried out under its
auspices, a second rural development project to be carried out over a more
extensive zone in the Southern Peruvian Sierra would be prepared.
B. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
8.02      The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 27%,
based on the following assumptions: (a) the evolution of crop and livestock
productivity and incorporation of project area farmers into the project, as
described in Chapter VI; (b) economic prices of products as presented in
Annex 2, Table 56; (c) inclusion of all project costs, as set out in Annex 2,
Table 58; and (d) shadow pricing of family and hired labor at 70% of the
financial wage to reflect rural unemployment and underemployment in the
project area. The benefits of the forestry component have been excluded
owing to the difficulty of their quantification.
8.03      The results of applying various sensitivity tests to project benefit
and cost streams are presented in Annex 2, Table 59. The economic rate of
return varies in the range of 18% to 26% as assumptions with respect to major
component cost overruns of 10% and 20%, a lag of one year in incremental
production benefits, or shortfalls of 10% and 20% in incremental production
benefits are introduced. The switching values for the major cost and benefit



- 41 -
streams which would result in the project's rate of return falling to the
estimated opportunity cost of capital (12%) in the country are also presented
in Annex 2, Table 59 and range from -59% and -105% for incremental crop and
livestock production to +140% for incremental farm production costs, +494%
for on-farm investment, and +641% for irrigation investment.
C. Prolect Risks
8.04      The technical risks related to the engineering and agronomic pro-
posals in the project are considered to be in the acceptable range. The
executing agencies have experience in carrying out the type of works proposed,
while the proposed yields and production techniques have been adequately
tested and are practiced on the more progressive farms in the region. The
major risks relate to the institutional and organizational capabilities of
the public sector, coordinating a variety of activities to be undertaken by
several agencies. Were the PU not able to retain sufficient qualified farm
extension staff, the delivery of services to farmers would be impaired and
the rate of acceptance of the proposed technological packages by small farmers
and farmer groups would be adversely affected. Public agencies have not
been able to adequately maintain productive infrastructure in the past. The
organizational and operational difficulties observed on some of the AREs could
be more intractable than anticipated and thus limit project achievements.
To reduce these risks, project size has been kept to a modest scale, so as to
avoid exaggerating operational, administrative and financial problems. The
emphasis is on establishing a strong project authority, with important training
programs and qualified technical supervision of project staff. New inputs and
relatively simple, improved production techniques are proven and would be
promoted at a modest pace. Considerable importance would be laid to farmer
contact and working with groups of farmers along the lines set out in the
training and visit system. Finally, the Government appears to be firmly
committed to assigning a high priority to the project. Nevertheless, it is
necessary that the Bank anticipate a possible need for a more than usually
intensive supervision effort, especially in the early stage of project
implementation.
D. Environmental Impact
8.05      The productive activities to be promoted under the project should
result in improved land and water resource management. Fertilizer and agri-
cultural chemicals would have minimal impact on the environment, given normal
precautions in their use. The forestry program would assist in soil conserv-
ation and reduce the use of animal wastes as fuel. Improved access to potable
water and health services should have a notably positive impact on the state
of beneficiary health.



- 42 -
IX. SUMIARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
would:
(a)  provide adequate counterpart funds to the participating agencies
in order to properly staff, operate and maintain facilities
provided under the project (para 4.21);
(b)  cause the Project Unit and participating agencies to undertake
procurement of goods, civil works and consultants and carry out
the Second-Phase studies as specified in paragraphs 4.22-4.26.
Unless the Bank should otherwise agree, purchase of wheel tractors
would not be eligible for Bank loan financing (para 4.25);
(c)  establish and organize the Project Unit and Project Coordinating
Committee, acceptable to the Bank, as set out in paragraphs 5.01
to 5.03;
(d)  cause the Project Unit to retain internationally recruited consul-
tants, acceptable to the Bank, as outlined in paragraph 5.04;
(e)  cause the Project Unit to sign Subsidiary Project Agreements,
acceptable to the Bank, with INIA, CENCIRA and BAP (para 5.05);
(f)  cause to be submitted to the Bank annually, not later than August 1,
the annual Project Investment and Operating Cost Budget (paras
5.05 and 5.06) for the next calendar year;
(g)  cause BAP to establish lending policies and procedures for
agricultural credit under the project as set out in paragraphs 5.11
and 5.12 and Schedule A, and periodically review the terms and con-
ditions for subloans in consultation with the Bank to take account
of relevant changes in the rate of inflation and capital market
conditions. Except as the Bank and the Government otherwise agree,
the standard lending rate would not be lower than 33% (including
commissions) for medium and long-term subloans and not lower than
31% (including commissions) for short-term subloans; a promotional
interest rate of 18% would apply only to first-time investment
subloans and production subloans of not greater than US$500 equiva-
lent (para 5.12);
(h)  establish (i) an account with US$8 million equivalent in the BAP
for the agricultural credit component, and (ii) a Project Account
for other project activities, authorizing an initial disbursement
of not less than the PU's operating costs for the first three
months of project execution, and replenishing it quarterly or as
the need arises (para 5.13);
(i)  cause to be established and maintained the accounting procedures
set out in paragraph 5.14 and cause to be submitted to the Bank
annual audit reports undertaken by independent auditors acceptable



- 43 -
to the Bank. Said audit reports, together with certified copies
of the audited accounts and the auditor's observations thereon,
would be submitted to the Bank within five months of the close
of each fiscal year, and each audit report would include, as appli-
ce.. e, a separate opinion as to whether the procedures and controls
relating to the use of Statements of Expenditures were properly
complied with (para 5.14);
(j) cause the Project Unit to monitor and evaluate the project,
submitting semiannual reports to the Project Coordinating
Committee and the Bank, and prepare a project completion report
to be submitted to the Bank within six months after the loan
closing date (para 5.15);
(k) no later than June 30, 1984 and at least every two years there-
after, review and adjust as required the level and structure of
water charges to ensure that they cover (i) full operation and
maintenance costs and (ii) as much as practical of investment
costs in accordance with the beneficiaries' capacity to pay.
The total amount of 0 and M costs would be returned to the
district and the district would be appropriately staffed and
equipped to adequately operate and maintain irrigation systems
in the project area. Investment cost recovery charges would be
based on a socio-economic study carried out by March 31, 1984
(para 7.03); and
(1) for each pump irrigation system proposed under the project, cause
to be executed a participation agreement between the DRAA and the
proposed users' association, based on a model participation
agreement, acceptable to the Bank, before construction of such a
system would commence (para 7.04).
9.02      Conditions of Loan effectiveness are that:
(a) the PU had been established and staffed (paras 5.01 to 5.03) and
that the Project Coordinating Committee (para 5.02) had been
established, satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) the three internationally-recruited consultants, two long-term
and one short-term for the ARE development staff, referred to in
paragraph 5.04, had been contracted;
(c) the Project Unit had signed a Subsidiary Project Agreement,
aceptable to the Bank, with BAP for carrying out the farm credit
component of the project (para 5.05);
(d) the Government had established the Project Unit and BAP Accounts
referred to in para 5.13; and
(e) the Supreme Decree regulating the Decree Law 22214 establishing
ORDEPUNO has been enacted.



- 44 -
9.03      A condition of disbursement for activities carried out by INIA,
CENCIRA and INN is that a contractual arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank,
had been executed for each of the pertinent components (para 5.05).
9.04      With the above assurances, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$15 million equivalent on standard terms and conditions.
February 12, 1980



- 45 -
SCHEDULE A
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions
A. Farm Investment and Production Subloans
1.        The project would provide technical assistance and credit to
approximately 13,000 small and medium farmers and seven agrarian reform
enterprises (AREs) in the project area. The production and investment credit
delivery system would be integrated with the technical assistance program.
The credit delivery system would consist of the following: credit promotion,
preparation of farm production and investment plans and subloan applications,
subloan approval, disbursement and collection.
Credit Promotion
2.        The promotion program would be established to inform project area
farmers of the benefits of credit and extension via a variety of media.
These would include local radio announcements; visual aids and audio-visual
presentations at such farmer meeting places as stores, schools, canteens,
village fairs, market days, and field demonstration days; and extension agent
contacts with farmers, etc. The message would emphasize the importance of
adopting new cultivation and husbandry practices which could be financed
through the credit program.
Preparation of Farm Production and Investment Plans and Subloan Applications
3.        Individual Farmers and Farmer Groups.  Once a client or group of
clients is identified, a Project Unit (PU) farm extension agent of the relevant
zonal PU office would visit the farm(s). Technically sound and financially
viable farm plans and supporting documentation would be prepared by the
extension agent according to sublending criteria established in the Subsidiary
Project Agreement signed by the Peruvian Agricultural Bank (BAP) with the PU. 1/
Subloan applications for crop and livestock production and investment credit
would include quantification of the areas and crops to be planted or animals
to be purchased, costs and timing of investments, land development and equip-
ment purchases, required inputs and their costs--indicating those which would
be financed by the credit--the calendar of farming or husbandry operations,
and anticipated yields and production impact, output and prices. The agent's
report would assess the guarantees provided by the sub-borrower (usually the
items acquired or the expected production) and recommend the quantity of
credit, the timing and form of disbursement tranches, and the schedule for
1/   These functions are performed by qualified PU staff, owing to the very
limited technical staff at BAP's disposal.



- 46 -
SCHEDULE A
debt service. 1/ There would also be an estimated schedule of PU extension
agent visits. This report would provide the baseline data for supervising and
monitoring performance by sub-borrowers.
4.        Agrarian Reform Enterprises (AREs).  The PU's ARE Development staff
would supervise project sublending activities to the AREs. There are seven
agrarian reform enterprises--three Mutually Owned Farm Enterprises (SAIS) and
four Agrarian Production Cooperatives (CAPs)--in the micro-region which would
participate in the project. Several of these enterprises have in recent years
experienced managerial and operational problems which have impinged negatively
on their economic and financial performance. In the case of several enter-
prises, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAA) has temporarily intervened,
appointing a manager and helping to put the enterprise back on a sounder
footing. Nevertheless, some problems persist in these enterprises and, thus,
under this project, it is foreseen that sublending to these enterprises should
be based, first, on an in-depth review or baseline study which would identify
development problems and potential and the most promising individual enterprise
strategies, and, second, on an intensive program of managerial and technical
assistance related to each specific subloan. The ARE Development staff would
initially undertake such a baseline review of each enterprise's managerial,
financial and production capabilities and propose a series of measures which
should be taken prior and/or concurrently to the execution of a possible
sublending program. These measures may relate to, e.g., managerial organiza-
tion; strengthening of medium-level technical and supervisory staff; accounting,
financial and cost control procedures; and altering the relative mix of
product lines. The baseline studies would provide a framework for the farm
production and investment sublending activities for these AREs. Furthermore,
this staff would, together with the BAP, identify qualified private consultants
whom the enterprises could contract to prepare productiDn and/or farm invest-
ment plans, including credit requirements, and the accompanying documentation
according to mutually agreed criteria with the BAP. These plans would include
those items as outlined in paragraph 3, appropriately expanded, describing the
small farm sublending components. The plan would also specify the consultant's
responsibilities for managerial support and technical assistance services to
be provided to execute the activities foreseen under the proposed subloan.
For these services, the consultant would be permitted to charge a program
preparation and supervision fee. The ARE Development staff would verify the
consultant's compliance with that supervision plan and approve disbursement
tranches to them for such services.
Subloan Approval
5.        Completed farm production and/or investment plans and subloan
applications, accompanied by supporting documentation, would be submitted
1/   Investment subloan applications to help finance small-scale irrigation
works would include an adequate technical review and approval of the
Juliaca office of the Sub-Direccion de Aguas y Suelos of the Regional
Directorate of Agriculture and Food (DRAA).



- 47 -
SCHEDULE A
to the Juliaca Agency of BAP for that institution's review, processing and
approval, according to BAP's operating procedures. Free limits for the
Juliaca BAP Agency (as of June 30, 1979) are as follows:
Beneficiary           Production Credit          Investment Credit
_                  S I .
Individual farmer        3,000,000 /1                     --- /1
6,000,000                  3,000,000
ARE                     10,000,000 /1               3,000,000 /1
60,000,000                  6,000,000
Larger subloans are forwarded to Puno.  For the Puno Branch, the free
limits, beyond which subloans must be forwarded to the Lima Head Office
for approval, are:
Beneficiary           Production Credit         Investment Credit
SI.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Individual farmer        12,000,000 /1              4,000,000 /1
18,000,000                12,000,000
ARE                      40,000,000 /1              9,000,000 /1
380,000,000                40,000,000
The Juliaca Agency should advise the PU and proposed sub-borrower of subloan
approval or rejection (and the reasons therefore in the latter case) in about
two weeks, except where the subloan amount exceeds the Agency's free limits
(as outlined above), in which case it would be forwarded to the Puno Branch
Office of BAP. Unless the proposed subloan exceeds the approval authority of
the Puno office or the project free limit (see below), the Puno Office should
communicate its decision to the Juliaca BAP Agency, the PU and the proposed
sub-borrower within about 30 days. All subloans which exceed US$100,000
equivalent or when added to outstanding balances on previous subloans under
the project to the same borrower or group of borrowers exceed US$100,000
equivalent would be forwarded to the Bank for review prior to BAP approval,
together with the observations of the PU's ARE Development staff or Farm
Extension Office and the BAP on the subloan under review.
Sublending Terms
6.        Interest rates, beneficiary contributions and loan maturity and
grace periods under the credit program would be as follows (subloan values
expressed in US dollar equivalent):
/1   For sub-borrowers who have had no previous BAP loans.



- 48 -
SCHEDULE A
Minimum
Type and Size of       Beneficiary      Interest      Maximum      Maximum Grace
Subloan            Contribution   Rate (p.a.)   Maturity          Period
(US$ equivalent)                                           ---- Years ---------
On-farm investment
< US$500                  5%             18%           12              5
> US$500-US$5,000         5%             33%           12              5
> US$5,000               10%             33%           12              5
Production credit
< US$500                  5%             18%            2              0.5
> US$500-US$5,000         5%             31%            2              0.5
> US$5,000               10%             31%            2              0.5
Promotional subloans not exceeding US$500 equivalent, bearing an 18% interest
rate, would be available to farmers on a one-time basis only. As regards the
minimum beneficiary contribution, it may be less than the above amounts, if the
BAP so determines; subloans requiring such lower contribution may not account
for more than 10% of the amount sublent under the project. Not less than 50% of
the value of sublending under the project would be for subloans of less than
US$5,000 equivalent per beneficiary, or which, when added to other outstanding
BAP subloans to the same beneficiary or group of beneficiaries, would be less than
US$5,000 per beneficiary. Subloans over US$100,000 equivalent, or which, when
added to other outstanding BAP subloans to the same beneficiary or group of bene-
ficiaries, would be over US$100,000 equivalent, would not exceed 15% of the total
value of subloans under the project. In the case of subloans to groups of farmers
(other than AREs), the subloan size would be calculated by dividing the overall
subloan amount by the number of sub-borrowers in the group.
Disbursement and Collection
7.        Disbursements on subloans would be made by the Juliaca BAP Agency.
These could be made in cash or, in the case of inputs provided by the govern-
ment supply agency, ENCI, in the form of vouchers payable to ENCI for specific
items. In the case of group subloans, the previously designated group leader
would be responsible for obtaining and distributing cash or inputs among the
various group members in accordance with the financing plan prepared by the PU
extension agent. To facilitate PU monitoring of progress in subloan disburse-
ment and collection, the Juliaca BAP Agency would submit to the respective PU
Extension or ARE Development Offices monthly summary statements, by subloan
account number, of the amounts disbursed, as well as amounts due and collected
for subloan debt service. The Juliaca BAP Agency would be responsible for
applying, in consultation with the PU, its normal procedures in the case of
overdue subloans.



- 49 -
SCHEDULE A
B. Small Rural Enterprise Development
8.        The Small Rural Enterprise Development staff in th.  'U would promote
the development of small rural enterprises, focussing on subproject identifica-
tion and preparation of investment studies and subloan documentation for
presentation to the Puno Branch of the Industrial Bank of Peru (BIP). Resources
for financing such subloans are not included in the Bank loan, because in mid-
1979 the BIP obtained a second loan of US$8 million from the Agency for
International Development (AID) for a US$10.2 million equivalent sublending
program under the Rural Enterprise Development Fund (FDR). This AID loan
represents a continuation of the FDR program initiated by a first loan
for US$8.3 million signed in 1974.
9.        Lending terms and conditions under FDR vary according to loan size
and in mid-1979 were as follows:
Loan Size                     Interest Rate
(S/.)                 (including 2% commission)
< 1,000,000                    18.5%  -  20.5%
1,000,000 - 10,000,000      21.5%  -  23.5%
> 10,000,000                    25.5%  -  27.5%
Beneficiaries contribute at least 10% of investment costs. Maximum subloan
period, including grace on principal repayment, was five years for working
capital and 10 years for fixed investment. The maximum permissible amount
outstanding per sub-borrower is S/. 12,000,000 for private firms or individuals
and S/. 20,000,000 for associative enterprises. The BIP free limit is
US$60,000 equivalent, with all larger subloans being submitted to AID for
approval; there was only one subloan this large processed under the first FDR
loan while average subloan size was about US$3,000 equivalent. Subloan
reimbursements are returned to a revolving fund in the BIP for further FDR
operations, while the Government assumes debt service for the AID loan.
10.       The Puno Branch of the BIP serves the entire Department.  (An agency
is authorized for Juliaca but a definite date for its opening has not yet been
established.) Under the first AID loan, 422 subloans -- totalling S/. 115.4
million -- were approved in the Puno Department between November 1975 and
December 1978, about 13% of the total number of subloans under the AID-financed
project.  About one-third of the S/. 115.4 million were in the provinces
constituting the project area. While a large number of subloans in the Puno
Department were for artisan activities, these absorbed a small share of the
resources. Almost half the subloans and over half the lending were for
small industrial activities, e.g., bakeries, soda water bottling plants,
candle factories, and garment making operations. As of April 30, 1979, the
branch's loan portfolio outstanding was S/. 154.6 million; 79% of this was



- 50 -
SCHEDULE A
under the FDR program, whose 362 subloans represented about 50% of the total
number of active subloans. Overdues on the FDR portfolio are running at the
rate of about 12%, about the same level as for BIP's normal sublending activi-
ties. As the Puno Branch is a Type B office, its free limit for loan approval
is presently SI. 3,000,000 (cumulative outstanding balance per sub-borrower),
or about US$13,600 equivalent. Subloans above that amount are sent to Lima
for approval.
C. Estimated Time-Phasing of Subloans
11.       Based on farm and ranch model parameters and the anticipated rate
of incorporation of participants into the project technical assistance and
credit programs, the estimated time-phasing of credit demand is as follows:
Year    Year      Year     Year
1       2         3        4       Total
_-_----- S/. million -------------
Minifundistas and Small Farmers
Investment Credit                    22.6    37.7      45.3      45.3      150.3
Production Credit                    55.9    93.4    111.9    112.0       373.2
Medium Farmers and AREs
Investment Credit                    66.1    90.4    111.0    128.2       395.7
Production Credit                    20.3    23.1      17.0      14.6       75.0
Sheep, Cattle and Alpaca Ranches
Investment Credit                    74.7   137.3    205.3          -     417.3
Total                            239.6   381.9    490.5    300.1   1,412.1
February 12, 1980



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursements Against Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
Subsidiary Project Agreements and Annual Operating Plans
1.        BAP, INIA and CENCIRA would each enter into a Subsidiary Project
Agreement with the Project Unit (PU) stipulating the obligations they have
under the project. The Agreement would include the objectives, physical
targets, estimated costs and disbursement plan for each year of the project
period. During the preparation of annual operating plans (AOPs) for each
participating agency, these programs would be reviewed and original estimates
as regards physical targets, estimated costs and disbursement plans on the
basis of each agency's performance and experience under the project would be
updated.
Expenditures to be Covered by SOEs
2.        Disbursements would be made against standard documentation for
civil works constructed by private contractors, vehicles, equipment, and
consultant services. For those works and expenses where full documentation
is impractical, the SOE procedure would be followed. This procedure would
apply to:
(a) works executed by force account; and
(b) operating costs of the PU and other components for which loan
financing is provided.
SOE Procedures
3.        The SOE would be summarized on Application for Reimbursement Form 1C
for works carried out by force account and operating costs of the PU. An
annex showing monthly expenditures by each participating agency would be
attached to Form 1C. These annexes would contain a basic breakdown of the
total costs for each agency's SOE, between (a) personnel costs; (b) materials
(construction materials, operating inputs, gasoline, etc.) according to
location of the works carried out and type of work (e.g., health post, potable
water, and vocational training center); (c) general services (third-party
payments covering short-term contracts and the like); and (d) other operating
expenses.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Disbursement
4.        Each participating agency would maintain separate accounts for the
project components it is carrying out, and in each agency a project coordi-
nator would assure that these accounts were properly kept current. The
agency project coordinator would also be responsible for preparing his agency's
monthly SOE and supporting material for submission to the PU. (The basic
documentation supporting the SOE would remain with the participating agency.)
The project coordinator in each agency would be responsible for reviewing
actual expenditures and comparing them with the anticipated budgetary figures
and physical targets in the Subsidiary Project Agreements and/or the Annual
Operating Plans for each agency. The PU would verify the SOE and authorize
reimbursement from the Project Account. The Project Unit would prepare
Application Form IC and send it, accompanied by the agency's SOE, to the Bank.
Audit
5.        Each audit report would include, as applicable, a separate opinion
as to whether the procedures and controls relating to the use of the SOE
were complied with and in accordance with the applicable legal documents.
This audit review would include, inter alia, assuring compliance with project
procurement procedures, verification of goods received or work performed, that
project cost is accurately recorded and that the subject agency's control and
accounting procedures are up-to-date and properly maintained.
February 12, 1980



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Monthly Climatic Data
Climatological Station: Juliaca (1962-1974)
Lat.:  1530' S. Longit.:  70008' W. Elev.:  +3,825 m.
Annual
Jan.     Feb.    Mar.    Apr.    May        June    July    Aug.    Sept.   Oct.    Nov.    Dec.           Mean
Temperature (C)
Minimum            3.02    A3.28    2.46   -0.15   -4.48   -8.26   -8.33   -6.32   -2.48   -0.87    0.73    2.25    -1.60
Maximum           16.67    16.44   16.30   16.51   16.31   15.85   15.75   16.70   17.42   18.77   18.88   17.55    16.93
Mean               9.92      9.88    9.44    8.23    6.23    3.92    3.73    5.17    7.49    9.08    9.85    9.99              7.24
Average Relative
Humidity (%)      64.69    66.77   64.92   60.00   47.92   44.08   42.69   43.62   45.23   43.17   44.77   55.38    51.94
Average Rainfall ,
(um)             118.34   106.68   97.87   35.82   10.87    1.46    2.52    5.46   20.99   30.68   45.67   89.52   565.88
(Total)
Climatological Station:  Cabanillas (1964-1974)
Lat.:  15 37' S. Longit.:  70 21' W. Elev.:  +3,850 m
Temperature (C)
Minimum            4.02      4.29    3.65    2.24   -0.38   -2.58   -2.78   -1.20    0.56    1.96    2.83    3.75              1.36
Maximum           16.32    15.61   15.31   16.06   15.62   15.45   15.45   16.12   16.80   17.93   18.24   17.70    16.38
Mean               9.99      9.81    9.68    9.83    8.78    7.76    7.61    8.31    9.30   10.47   11.11   10.63              9.44
Average Relative
Humidity (%)      68.73    72.91   72.73   62.18   52.73   52.00   51.80   51.10   53.40   50.80   53.73   61.91    58.67
Average Rainfall
(mm)             133.03   141.43  104.09   32.61   11.29    0.43    1.40    6.31   18.61   25.47   45.72   85.35   605.74
(Total)
October 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Distribution, Livestock Ownership and Income in the Project Area
Area (ha)                                                            Livestock                                Average
Tenure                        No. of       No. of                   Natural Pastures                     Per        Per                                                          Per        Per       Family
Category                      Families    Farms          Crops         and Fallow           Total       Faily       Farm          Sheep    Cattle    Alpacas          Total    Family       Farm      Income
Private Farmers                26,500      26,500       12,500          233,285            245,785        9.3        9.3         631,620   55,406       54,540       741,566      28          28
Minifundistas                12,370      12,370        4,800            8,805             13,605        1.1        1.1                                                                                 71
544,620   51,506       50,540      646,666      21          25
Small Farmers                13,390      13,390        6,900          156,277            163,177       12.2       12.2                                                                                209
Medium Farmers                  740         740          800           68,203             69,003       93.2       93.2          87,000    3,900        4,000        94,900     128         128        577
ARE.                            3,000            7       3,350          488,684            492,034      164.0    70,291          588,884   23,686        87,742      700,312    283       100,045       548
Associative enterprises       3,000            7       2,550          366,813            369,363      123.1    52,766          487,219   10,532       68,160       565,911    189        80,844
Operations of ARE
members                    (2,700)                     800          121,871            122,671       45.4    17,524          101,665   13,154       19,582      134,401       50       19,200
Community lands                                                          100,350           100,350
Other lands                                                               17,631            17,631
TOTAL                          29,500      26,507       15,850          839,950            855,800                             1,220,504   79,092      142,282   1,441,878
Source: FAO/CP Preparation Report.
July 17, 1979



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Huata-Quita Irrigation Rehabilitation - Summary Cost Estimate
Foreign Exchange
Unit      Total         Component
Unit      Quantity       Cost       Cost        %      Amount
----------U$ equivalent---
1.   Headworks
Intake structure-repairs             No.           1                     1,200
Protective wall, concrete            No.           1                    27,000
Operational office and living
quarters                           No.           1                     5,700
Subtotal                                                             33.900
2.   Main Canal
Rehabilitation-earthworks            m          11,400        0.41       4,650
Repair of existing lining            m2         30,000        3.42    102,500
Lining w/ prefabricated concrete
blocks                             m2          8,850        5.52      48,850
Repair of covered conduits           No.           2          1,150      2,300
Repair of flumes                     No.           3            250        750
Construction of new flumes           No.           6            900      5,400
Metering structure                   No.           1            350        350
Construction of division boxes       No.           8            250      2,000
Subtotal                                                            166,800
3.   Secondary Canals
Construction-earthworks              m           8,700        2.69      23,400
Intake structures                    No.           8          770        6,160
Distribution gates                   No.           40         120        4,800
Drops and metering structures        No.           13         230        2,990
Subtotal                                                              37,350
4.   Tertiary Canals
Construction - earthworks            m         36,000         0.80      28,800
Distribution structures              No.          200         140       28,000
Subtotal                                                             56,800
5.   Drainage
Main collectors -alignment and
earthworks                         m          7,200         1.60      11,500
Secondary drainage canals            m3        10,700         0.85       9,100
Tertiary drainage ditches            m3         8,820         0.85       7,500
Small bridges, crossings             No.           2                     1,500
Subtotal                                                             29,600
6.   Service Roads                          m         28,400        11.32    321,500
7.  Miscellaneous
Office and storeroom                 No.          1                     11,300
Furniture and equipment                                                  4,000
Motorcyles                           No.          2         1,450        2,900
Communications equipment                                                 2,850
Subtotal                                                             21,050
Total Base Cost                                                 667,000        30   200,100
Physical contingencies, 10%                                               66,700              20,010
Total                                                                  733,700        30   220,110
October 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Huata-Quita and Cabanillas Irrigation Systems - Water Demand and Supply
Irrigated
Area
(hal      Jan.    Feb.    Mar.          Apr       May   Jun.      Jul.    Aue.       Sep.      Oct.    Nov.    Dec.    Total
1. Gross Irrigation Demand
(thousand mi)
Potatoes                            800    518.7    336.7   249.0         1,566.7      -      -        -        -         -      131.3    746.7    196.0    3,745.1
Vegetables                          200      -          -      121.5        406.9      -      -        -        -       110.4   503.3    492.7    106.3    1,741.1
Quinua                              500     123.3   121.2   264.1         1,103.2      -      -        -        -         -        -         -         -      1,611.8
Oca                                  30      23.8    10.9       18.3          -       -      -         -        -         -        8.0      35.2     14..8      111.0
Barley                               70      12.3       -        -            -       -      -         -        -         -        -         -        -          12.3
Total                          1,600      678.1   468.8   652.9        3,076.8      -      -        -         -      110.4    642.6 1,274.6    317.1    7,221.3
Demand, in m3/sec.                                 0.38     0.29      0.37        1.78      -      -        -         -       0.06      0.36    0.74       0.18
2. Supply in m3/sec.
Min, flow in Rio Verde                       10.04    25.09    25.20        8.17   2.9o   1.42    1.05         0.83     1.08      1.02    1.57        3.68
Min. flow from L. Lagunillas                  0.0O     1.36     7.09        5.47   2.44   0.81    0.46         0.26     0.20      0.00    0.00        0.00
Total supply, in m3/sec.!/                10.04    26.45    32.29        13.64   5.40   2.23    1.51         1.09     1.28     1.02    1.57        3.68
3. Surplus/Deficit, in m3/sec.                     9.b6   26.16    31.92        11.86   5.40    2.23    1.51         1.09    1.22      0.66   0.83         3.50
1/ ihe available supply is based on hydrological records of the "driest" year out of 14 years' records.
October 1979
{D X



- 57                                                  ANNEX 2
Table 5
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cabanillas Irrigation Rehabilitation - Summary Cost Estimate
Foreign Exchange
Unit      Total        Component
Unit     Quantity        Cost       Cost      %       Amount
----------US$ equivalent----------
1.  Headworks
Intake structure - repairs          No.         1                         360
Operational office and
li7ing quarters                                                      5,700
Subtotal                                                             6,060
2.   Main Canal
Rehabilitation - earthworks         m        11,670                     2,000
Repair of existing lining           m2       18,000          3.41     61,380
Lining wl prefabricated concrete
blocks                            m2        3,200          5.47     17,500
Repair of covered conduits          No.         2           5,660      11,320
Repair of flumes                    No.         5             250       1,250
Construction of covered conduits   No.          2             680       1,360
Metering structure                   No.        1             350         350
Construction of division boxes      No.        11             250       2,750
Subtotal                                                            97,910
Secondary Canals
Construction - earthworks           m        15,400           2.73    42,000
Drops and metering structures       No.         22            230       5,070
Distribution gates                  No.         72            120       8,640
Intake structures                   No.         14            770     10,780
Subtotal                                                            66,490
4   Tertiary Canals
Construction - earthworks            m       29,700         0.41        12,180
Metering structures                 No.       120            230        27,600
Distribution gates                  No.       120             60         7,200
Subtotal                                                             46,980
5. Drainage
Main collectors - alignment and
earthworks                         m       12,000         1.60       19,200
Secondary drainge canals            m3       17,850         0.85        15,180
Tertiary drainage ditches           m3       13,720         0.85        11,660
Track crossing                      No.         1                          350
Subtotal                                                             47,540
6.  Service Roads                          m        30,000        11.33      340,000
7.  Miscellaneous
Office and storeroom                 No.        1                       11,300
Furniture and equipment                                                  4,000
Vehicles   - motorcycles            No.          2         1,450         2,900
Communications equipment                                                2,850
Subtotal                                                             21,050
Total Base Cost                                                 626,030       30   187,810
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                               62,600             18,780
Total                                                                 688,630       30   206,590
October 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Taraco Irrigation System - Water Demand and Supply
Irrigated
Area
(lia)    Jan.    Feb.    Mar.          Apr.    May   Jun.    Jul.   Aug.   Sep            Oct.   Nov.       Dec.      Total
1  Gross Irrigation Demand
( tllotjsad m3
Potatoes                       630      408.5   265.2   196.1   1,233.8         -                                     103.4    588.0    154.4   2,949.4
Vegetables                     320        -        -      194.4       651.0     -      -        -       -    176.7  805.3        788.3    170.1   2,785.8
Quinua                         530      130.7   128.4   279.9   1,169.3         ---                                                -        -       1,708.3
Oca                             30       23.8    10.9    18.3          -                                                8.0       35.2     14.8      111.0
Barley                          90       15.7      -        -          -        -      -        -       -      -        -          -        -          15.7
Total                     1,600      578.7   404.5   688.7    3,054.1         -      -        -       -    176.7  916.7  1,411.5    339.3   7,570.2
Demand, in m3/sec.                          U.32    0.25       0.39      1.77      -      -        _       _      0.10   0.51    0.82         0.19
2. Supply, in m3/sec.4i
Min. flow in Rio Ramis               92.5   124.0    58.2          54.2    19 3   15.0   14.7   14.0    7.2    11.4             38.3    51.4
3. Surplus/Deficit, in m3/sec.            92.18 123.75      57.81       52.43    19.3   15.0   14.7   14.0        6.2     10.89    37.48    51.21
1/ The available supply is based on hydrological records of the "driest" year out of 20 years' records.
October 1979
ctlx



_ 59 9
ANNEX 2
PERU                                                    Table 7
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Taraco Irrigation Rehabilitation - Summary Cost Estimate
Foreign Exchange
Unit        Total          Component
Unit       Quantity        Cost        Cost         1       Amount
-----------US$ equivalent_-------__
1. Headworks
Intake structure - repairs                                                    9,000
Protective wall, concrete             m3            1,300                    44,150
Subtotal                                                                   53, 150
2. Pumping Station
Extension of building and an-
cillary structures                                                         11,500
Additional complete pumping
unit                                                                       57,000
Pipework and fittings                                                        11,500
General repair of pumps and
diesel engines                                                             17,000
Sump pump (for drainage)                                                      2,850
Subtotal                                                                   99,850
3. Main Canal
Repairs - earthworks                  m             3,186         0.17          550
Repair of existing lining             m2           14,750         3.41       50,300
Lining w/ prefabricated
concrete blocks                     m2           4,700         5.47        25,710
Repair of covered conduits            No.             9           285         2,570
Repair of culverts                    No.             4          285          1,140
Construction of covered
conduits                            No.             15         910         13,650
Protection ditches - excav.           m3           25,800        0.85        21,930
Regulation gates                      No.             10          570         5,700
Metering structure                    No.             1           340           340
Subtotal                                                                 121,890
4. Secondary Canals
Construction - earthworks             m            35,300        9.35       330,000
Lining w/ prefabricated
concrete blocks                     m2          42,570         5.47      232,860
Intakes and gates                     No.             20         770         15,400
Drops and metering structures         No.         120 + 20                   11,510
Crossing structures                   No.             20          340         6,800
Subtotal                                                                 596,570
5. Tertiary Canals
Construction - earthworks             m            48,000        1.32        63,360
Intakes and gates                     No.             200        60          12,000
Culverts                              No.             20         85           1,700
Subtotal                                                                   77,060
6. Drainage
Main collectors - alignment
and earthworks                      m           67,000         0.73        48,900
Secondary drainage canals             m3           23,520        0.85        36,760
Subtotal                                                                   85,660
7. Service Roads
Repair of dirt tracks                 m            17,000         5.70       96,900
Construction of service tracks    m                11,000       11.40       125,400
Subtotal                                                                 222, 300
8. Miscellaneous
Protection walls at crossings         m3            1,300       22.65        29,450
Office furniture and equipment                                                2,850
Vehicles - motorcycles                No.              4        1,450         5,800
Communications equipment                                                      2,850
Technicaland engineering equin.                                              18,150
Subtotal                                                                  59,100
Total Base Cost                                                   1,315.580       32.5   427.560
9. Physical contingencies, 10%                                                   131,560      __       42,760
Total                                                                    1,447,140       32.5   470,320
October 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Buena Vista Irrigation System - Water Demand and Supply
Irrigated
Area
(ha)     Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May  Jun.  Jul.  Aug.  Sep.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
1. Gross Irrigation
Demand
(thousand m3)
Potatoes             255       165.3  107.3   79.4  499.4   -    -         -      -     -      41.8  238.0  62.5  1,193.7
Vegetables            70         -      -      42.5  142.4   -    -        -     -    38.7  176.2  172.4  37.2    609.4
Quinua                75        18.5   18.2   39.6  165.5   -    -         -     -      -       -       -      -       241.8
Total             400       183.8  125.5  161.5  807.3   -    -          -     -    38.7  218.0  410.4  99.7  2,044.9
Demand, in m3/                                           0.54
sec.
2. Supply in m3/
sec. equals demand figures - water to be pumped from Lake Titicaca.
October 19-
m Mt



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Buena Vista Irrigation System - Summary Cost Estimate
Foreign Exchange
Unit       Total         Component
Unit      Quantity       Cost        Cost       %       Amount
-----------US$ equivalent ----------
Intake structure                      No.          1                     10,000
Inlet pipeline 36 in. diameter        m          2,400         110      264,000
Intake, gates, etc.                                                       3,500
Inlet canal                           m          2,200         8.40      18,500                                   1
Pumping station, civil works                                              6,500
Pumping station, mechanical
equipment,and installation                                             53,500
Main canal                            m          1,200        14.40       17,300
Secondary canals (fill)               m          7,510         7.70      57,800
Tertiary canals                       m         24,000         0.60      14,400
Drainage collectors                   m          1,400         6.20        8,700
Drainage canals (secondary)           m          3,100         3.20       9,900
Service roads                         m          8,700        11.4       99,200
Structures - drops and culverts                                           2,500
Land levelling                        ha           200         115       23,000
Subtotal                                                              588,800     34.5   203,100
Physical contingencies, 10%                                              58,900               20,,u0
Total                                                                 64770               223,400
August 1979
( D
fD 
 s



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Small-Scale Irrigation Systems - Water Demand and Supply
Irrigated
Area
(ha)     Jan.    Feb.   Mar.    Apr.          May        Jun.      Jul.       Aug.    Sep.          Oct.       Nov.      Dec.    Total
a. Gross IrriRation Demand
(thousand ml)
(a) 10-ha lots-module "A"
Potatoes                2      1.30    0.84   0.62    3.92                                                      -         0.33        1.87    U.49      9.37
Vegetables              2.'5     -        -    1.52    5.09          _         _          _                   1.38        6.29       6.16    1.33    21.77
Quinua                  1.5   0.37    0.36   0.79    3.31            -         -          -         -           -           -          -         -      4.83
Barley                  4     0.70         --         -         -         -          -         -                -          -           -         -      0.70
Total                10.0   2.37    1.20   2.93   12.32            -         -          -         _         1.38        6.62       8.03    1.82    36.67
Demand,in liters/sec.                                   7.1
(b) 10-ha lots-module "B"
Potatoes                2      1.30    0.84   0.62    3.92           -         -          -         -           -         0.33        1.87    u.49      9.37
Vegetables              4        -       -    2.43    8.14           -         -          -         -         2.21       10.07       9.85    2.13    34.83
Quinua                  1      0.25    0.24   U.53    2.21           -         -                                -            -          -        -       3.23
Barley                  3     0.52       -      -         -          -         -          -         -           -           -          -        -       0.52
Total                10     2.07    1.08   3.58   14.27            -         -          -         -         2.21       10.40      11.72    2.62    47.95
Demand, in liters/sec.                                  8.3
(c)  5-ha lots-module "C"
Potatoes                 1     0.65    0.42   0.31   1.96             -         -          _         _          -         0.1,6      0.93      0.25    4.68
Vegetables               2.0      -        -    1.22   4.07           _         _                             1.10        5.03       4.93      1.06   17.41
Quinua                   0.5   0.12    0.12   0.26   1.10                                                       -           -           -         -     1.60
Barley                   1.5   0.26       -       -       -           ---                                                               -         -     0.26
Total                 5.0   1.03    0.54   1.79   7.13             -         -          _         _        1.10        5.19       5.86      1.31   23.95
4.1
Demand, in liters/sec.                                   -
Note: Under the project iL is envisaged that there would be about: 10 lots of module "A" - 100 ha
30 lots of module "B" - 300 ha
20 lots of module "C" - 100 ha
Total          500 ha
August 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DiEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Small-scale Pump Irrigation Systems (60 modules on 500 ha) - Summary Cost Estimate
Foreign Exchange
Unit        Total         Component
Unit      Quantity       Cost         Cost       E       Amount
------------US$ equivaet-----------
Small intake structures               No.         10                       1,200
Pumping sets, including enclosed
sheds and installation              No.         10        1,900         19,000
Discharge pipelines, 4 in. diameter              2,000         2.20         4,400
Division boxes                        No.         20           120          2,400
Irrigation ditches                    m         10,000         0.80        8,000
Well digging                          No.         30           250          7,500
Pumping sets, including enclosed
sheds and installation              No.         30        1,900         57,000
Irrigation ditches                    m         36,000        0.80        28,800
Various structures                    No.        120           100        12,000
Well digging                          No.         20           250         5,000
Pumping sets, including enclosed
sheds and installation              No.         20        1,900         38,000
Irrigation ditches                    m        12,000         0.80         9,600
Various structures                    No.         80           100         8.000
Subtotal                                                               200,900    35    79,315
Physical contingencies, 10%                                               20,100            7,030
Total                                                                  221,000           77,345        0 
August 1979                                                                .
August 1979                                                                                               I- s'



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment for Irrigation Subprojects  - Summary Cost Estimate
Foreign Exchange
Unit       Total        Component
Unit      Quantity      Cost       Cost        %      Amount
----------  US$ equivalent ----------
Mechanical equipment
Tractors 116 hp                      No.          4         21,250      85,000
Large graders                        No.          4          3,600      14,400
Harrows                              No.          4          2,050       8,200
Small grading implements             No.          4          1,700       6,800
Ridging implements                   No.          L            800       3,200
Vehicles
Pickups                              No.          4          9,500      38,000
notorcycies                          No.          4          1,450       5,800
Trailers, tools, spare
parts, miscellaneous                -           -            -        22,700
184,100   79    145,800
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                             18,410           14,544
Total                                                              202,510   79    160,344
October 1979
IH x
{D P
i-t1
tD



_ 65 -
PERU                                                      ANNEX 2
Table 0 1-3
PUNO RURL.3 DEVELOPNlIMT PROJEcT
Irrigation Subpro ect$ - Phasing of Irveatment
Foreign Exchange
Project Years                                       Gomponent
1            2            3             4          Total                A ount
-~~----------------------------- US$    equivalent  ------    ----- ----------
1. Huata-Quita System
Readworks                33,900                                                33,900
Main Canal              106,800       60,000                                 166,800
Secondary canals         37,350                                                37,350
Tertiary canals                       56,800                                  56,800
Drainage                                            29,600                    29,600
Service roads                        100,000       100,000      121,500      321,500
Miscellaneous                         21,050                                  21,050
Subtotal              178,050     237,850        129,600      121,500                    TO _   200,100
2. Cabanillas System
Headworks                 6,060                                                 6,060
Main Canal               63,400       34,510                                  97,910
Secondary canals         30,000       36,490                                  66,490
Tertiary canals          26,990       20,000                                  46,980
Drainage                                            47,540                    47,540
Service roads                        100,000       100,000      140,000      340,000
Miscellaneous                        ______                      ______       21.050       _         ___
Subtotal              19147,0      191.0U0      147,540       140,000      626.030      30     187,810
3. Taraco System
Head-orks                53,150                                              53,150
Pumping Station          45,000       546850                                 99.850
Main Canal               70,000       51,890                                121,890
Secondary canals        150,000      230.000       216.570                  596,570
Tertiary canals                                     77,060                   77,060
Drainage                                            48,900      36,760       85,660
Service roads                         70,000        75,000      77,300      222.300
Miscellaneous            46500        12600           _                      59 100
Subtotal              364.650     419,340       417,530      114,060   1,315.580         33   427,650
4. Buena Vista System
Intake and inlet conduits                         200,000       96.000      296,000
Pumping St.tion                                     30,000       30,000      60.000
Main Canal                                                       17,300      17.300
Secondary canals                                                57,800       57,800
Tertiary canals                                                  14,400      14,400
Drainage                                                         18,600      18,600
Service roads                                                   99,200       99,200
Miscellaneous              _                                     25,500      25,500
Subtotal                 -           -          230.000      358,800      588,900        35    203,100
5. Smail-scale irrigation Systems
Construction of wells   1,500         3,500        3,500       4,000        12,500
Pumping equipment       12,000       34,000       34,000      34,000       114,000
Irrigation ditches                   15,000      15,000       16,400        46,400
Intakes and pipework                  2,600       3,000                      5.600
Distribution structures               7,500        7,000        7,900       22,400
Vehicles                                           4,.350
Subtotal              TTm         B7,          62,500       67,          2                      7r
6. Research and Demonstration Center
buildings               40,000       30,000                                 70.000
Irrigation and drainage
systems                4,000        4,400                                  8.400
Land levelling           1,500                                               1,500
Furniture and office
equipment              4,000        7,000                                 11,000
Mechanical eqaipmnt,
tools and instr.emnts30o,000      64,000                                  96,000
Vehicles                45,300                                              45.300
Complementary works
in the Pirapi iTrigation
system                30,000      20.000       30,200                     80,200
Miscellaneous                                      6,8-O                     6.800
Subtotal             154,800      125,400      37,000         -          317.200        60     t90,300
7. Equipment
Mechanical equipment   184,100                                                184,100      79       145,800
Operating Costs          10 000       29,000        25,109      25,100         89,200      20         17 840
Subtotal              19_4100       29 000        25.100      25.100        244,800      58       142 320
Total investments       1,052.590   1.065.190    1.053,620        821,760     3,993,160      36     1,444,350
Phvsical contin-
gencies  10%            1OS,260      106.520       105l360      82,180        199.30                144,435
Grand Total           1,157 850   1,171,710    1.156,980       903.940      4,392.480      36    1.58. 785
Uctober 1979



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Table 14
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Subproject - 0 and if Costs at Full Development
Distribution of Annual Costs by Suboroiects               Total
Unit                                                     Small-scale  Annual
Quantity       Cost   Huata-Quita  Cabanillas  Taraco  Buena Vista    Systems    Costs
__________----------------US$ equivalent-----------------------------
.. Salaries
-  Professionals          36 m/m         500       2,630         4,390      7,020      1,760         2,200      18,000
-  Technical and other 132 m/m           300       7,200         7,200    14,400         -          10,800      39,600
-  Labor                 lump sum      1,100         200           350        550        -             -         1,100
Subtotal                                    10,030         11,940    21,970      1,760         13,000      58,700
2. Materials
-  spare parts                                       300           300        600        300*          600*      2,100
for pumping equip.           -             -       2,210      1,350*        2,850*      6,410
-  Fuel                  for pumping"/                -             -      51,500      4,670*       27,350*    83,520
for vehicles_2/             850           850      1,900      1,270*        1,275       6,145
-  Other                                             200           200        800        500         1,200*      2,900
Subtotal                                     1,350          1,350     7,010                    33,275    101,075
3. Maintenance
-  Civil works                     0.5% of inv.  3,320           3,115      6,107      2,680*          440*    15,662
-  Pumping equipment                1.5% of inv.    -              -        1,325        900*        1,710*      3,935
-  Vehicles and others               20% of inv.    580            580      1,160      1,920*          870       5,110
Subtotal                                     3,900          3,695       8,592    5,500          3,020     24,707
4. Miscellaneous                                   1,100         1,850      2,950      1,600         1,800       9,300
Total                                       16,380         18,835    90,522    16,950          51,095     193,782
5. Contingencies  (10%,                           1,640          1,880      9,053     1,695          5,110      19,378
Grand Total                                 18,020          20,715        99,575    18,645    56,205      213,160
Water Charges
Total direct costs collected by the
irrigation district                             18,020        20,715    99,575       4,246        18,640
Annual charge per ha.                              30.03         20.72      62.23      10.62         37.28
Charge per m3 in US 4 equiv.                        0.67          0.46       1.32       0.21          0.82
Notes:  * Items whose costs will be borne directly by the beneficiaries rather than paid through Irrigation
District 0 and M charges.
1/ Fuel for pumping: cost S/. 85 per gallon, e.e. 40.1 #/gal. (May '79).
2/ Fuel for vehicles: cost S/. 170 per gallon, i.e. 80.2 J/ gal (May '79).
October 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Costs of Establishing and Operating the Forestry Program
Years                                                        Foreign Exchange
ITEM                                         Unit Cost         NO. Units            1                2                3                4             TOTAL           'b               US$
----------- -----    -000    S / -     - ----- -------------   _ - _-_- ___-- _-_-_-_- _-__-_-
1. Nursery                                      (/a                                                   '     /
A.  Staff
Sr. Agriculturalist (Forestry)        61,480           36 m/m              737.76           737.76           737.76                         2,213.28
Forester                              46,110           36 m/m              553.32           553.32           553.32                         1,659.96
Assistant                             38,425           36 m/m              461.1            461.1            461.1                          1,383.30
Laborer                               11,527.5      2,520 m/r            9,683.1          9,683.1          9,683.1                         29,049.30
B.  Inputs
Seeds                                                                    1,750            1,000                                             2,750            10                L,264
Bags                                                                     1,687            2,000            1,000                            4,687            25                 5,326
Pesticides                                                                 100              100              100                              300            50                   682
Fertilizers                                                                150               75               75                              300            50                   682
Hand Tools                                                               1,000              250              250                            1,500            35                 2,386
Miscellaneous                                                              100              100              100                              300            20                   273
C.  Constructions
Sheds and covers                                                         1,000              100              100                            1,200            35                 1,909
Tables,potting benches, etc.                                               900               50               50                            1,000            25                 1,136
D.  4_ wheel drive vehicle
(including O&M)                  2,038,000           1                2,302              264              264                            2,830             80
Subtotal                                                              20,424.28          15,374.28       13,374.28                         49,172.84                          23,949
2. Forestry Establishment
A.  Land preparation                       16,237.62    1,500                                 8,118.36         8,118.36         8,118.36       24,355.08          10               11,070
B.  Planting, etc.
Transport (including vehicle,
Driver 36 r/r and 0 4 v,)                                                                 8,297.32         1,297.32         1,297.32       10,891.96         65               32,181
Planting, fertilizing and
watering                                            1,500                                7,909.50         7,909.50         7,909.50       23,728.50         20               21,571
C.  Protection                                                                                3,744.95         3,744.95         3,744.95       11,234.85         25                12,767
D.  Technical assistance
and training:
Consultant                            250,000          16 m/m           1,000             1,000            1,000            1,000           4,000
Foresters:
2 Senior                              69,165         48 mtm              829.98            829.98           829.98           829.98        3,319.92
2 Junior                              53,795          48 m/rm            645.54            645.54           645.54           645.54        2 582.16
Drivers                                32,277          96 m/m             774.64            774.64           774.64           774.64        3,098.59
4-wheel drive vehicle
(including 0 & M)                2,038,000            2               2,302               264              264              264           3,094.0          80               11,251
Motorcycles (including 0 & M)         264,000           2                 627                99               99               99             924.0          75                 3,150
Training (including per diem
and transport)                     two supervisors ----                 500               500              200                            1,200            20                1,091
Subtotal                                                                6,679.16         32,183.29        24,883.29        24,683.32       88,429.06                          93,081
3.  Variety Trials                                             2.5 ha             404.5             150              150              100             804.5          10                   366        e 
c, Z
T O T A L                                                              27,507.94         47,707.5 57384757                 24,783.32      138,406.40         19              117,396        vr
September 19, 1979



- 68 -
PERU                                         ANNEX 2
Table 16
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Locally Recruited Project Unit Staff
Unit                   Per
Offices and Positions                   Unit    Cost       Subtotal    Diem      Subtotal       Total
(m/m)    - -   - - - - - - - - - - n'nn 77 l           -  -  -  -  -  -
1. Office of Project Director
Project Director                       48   132         6,336        33        1,5Y4        7,02n
Administrative Assistant               48   110          5,280       33        1,584        6,864
Accountant                             48    88          4,224       27.5      1,320        5,544
Programming and Budgeting Officer  48    88              4,224       27.5      1,320        5,544
Secretaries (2)                        96    35.2       3,379.2        -        -           3,379.2
Drivers (2)                            96    32.34      3,104.64    6.6          633.6      3,738.24
Subtotal                             384               26,547.84               6,441.6    32,989.44
2. Office of Project Supervision
Irrigation Engineer                   48   110          5,280        33        1,584        6,864
Civil Engineer                         48   110         5,280        33        1,584        6,864
Training and Studies Specialist    48   110             5,280        33        1,584        6,864
Procurement/Contract Specialist    48   110             5,280        33        1,584        6,864
Farm Economist/Monitoring
Specialist                         48   110          5,280       33        1,584         6,864
Statistical Assistants (2)             96    55         5,280        16.5      1,584        6,864
Secretaries (3)                       144    35.2       5,068.8        -        -           5,068.8
Drivers (3)                           144    32.3        4,651.2      6.6        950.4      5,601.6
Subtotal                             624               41,400                 10,454.4    51,854.4
3. Juliaca Field Office
Senior Agent                          48    66.1        3,172.8    33          1,584        4,756.8
Agricultural Agents                   792    61.5      48,708        33       26,136       74,844
Livestock Agents                     475    61.5       29,212.5    33         15,675       44,887.5
Irrigation Agents                    336    61.5       20,664        33       11,088       31,752
Rural Enterprise Staff:
Industrial Engineer                 48    61.5        2,952       33         1,584        4,536
Financial Analyst                   48    61.5        2,952        33        1,584        4,536
Management Specialist               48    61.5        2,952        33        1,584        4,536
ARE Support Staff:
Ranch Management                    48    61.5        2,952        33        1,584        4,536
Financial Analyst/Credit
Specialist                        48    61.5        2,952       33        1,584         4,536
Statistical Assistant (2)              96    55         5,280        33        3,168        8,448
Secretaries (3)                       144    35.2       5,068.8        -        -           5,068.8
Drivers (4)                           192    32.34      6,209.28    6.6        1,267.2      7,476.48
Subtotal                           2,323              133,075.38              66,838.2   199,913.58
4. Lampa Field Office
Senior Agent                          48    66.1        3,172.8    33          1,584        4,756.8
Agricultural Agents                   324    61.5       19,926       33       10,692       30,618
Livestock Agents                     426    61.5       26,199        33       14,058       40,257
Irrigation Agents                     144    61.5       8,856        33        4,752       13,608
Secretaries (2)                       96    35.2        3,379.2        -        -           3,379.2
Drivers (3)                           144    32.34      4,656.96    6.6          950.4      5,607.36
Subtotal                           1,182               66,189.96              32,036.4    98,226.36
5. Santa Lucia Office
Senior Agent                           48    66.1       3,172.8    33          1,584        4,756.8
Agricultural Agents                   156    61.5        9,594       33        5,148       14,742
Livestock Agents                      156    61.5        9,594       33        5,148       14,742
Secretaries (2)                        96    35.2       3,379.2        -        -           3,379.2
Drivers (3)                           144    32.34       4,656.96    6.6         950.4      5,607.36
Subtotal                             600               30,396.96              12,830.4    43,227.36
TOTAL                                                 297,610.14             128,601.0    426,211.14
December 1979



ANNEX 2
- 69 -                              Table 17
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Internationally Recruited
Consultants for Project Unit Staff
1.  Long-term Consultants        Unit      Unit2/ Cost                Total
(in7m)- - - -  U             S$     -
Advisor to Project Director  36            8,000                 288,000
Extension Advisor             24           8,000                 192,000
2. Short-term Consultants
Project Planning
and Budgeting                 9           8,000                  72,000
Monitoring and Evaluation      9           8,000                  72,000
ARE Development Support        9           8,000                  72,000
Rural Enterprise Development  9            8,000                  72,000
Other                          8           8,000                  64,000
TOTAL               104                             US$832,000
1/ Excludes Second Phase Studies, Health and Nutrition Programs.
2/ Includes transportation, per diem and other costs.
December 1979



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Table 18
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Unit Equipment - Investment and Operating Costs
No.           Cost                   Foreign Exchange
Office and Item             Units  Investment  0 & M   Total        %       US$
-          US$- - -  - -
1.   Project Director
4-wheel drive vehicles    2       18,540       9,800  28,140    67    19,086
2.   Project Supervision
4-wheel drive vehicles    3       27,795      14,400  42,195    67    28,271
Motorcycles                 3       3,600      5,400   9,000    60       5,400
3.   Juliaca, Lampa and Santa
Lucia Extension Offices
4-wheel drive vehicles   10       92,700      48,000  140,700   67    94,267
Motorcycles                26     31,200      46,800   78,000   60    46,800
Bicycles                   20      2,000       4,000    6,000   40       2,400
TOTAL                              175,835    128,200  304,035   64   196,244
September 19, 1979



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Table 19
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Unit Facilities - Investment and Operating Costs
No. of    Unit
Unit    Units      Cost       Total   Foreign Exchange
- S/.'000 - -             US$
Offices
Juliaca (rehabilitation)            -         -         -        4,000    30       5,455
Lampa                               -         -         -        2,000    30       2,727
Santa Lucia    "                    m2       120       20        2,400    25       2,727
Living Quarters                    50 m2        40        20       4,000    30        5,455
Operation and Maintenance           1 p.a.       4    1,500        6,000    15       4,091
TOTAL                                                        18,400    24      20,455
August 29, 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs of Extension Staff Training Program
Foreign
Unit      No.                   -----Years- ---                            Exchange
Item                     Cost     Units         1          2          3         4         Total    %       US$
(S/.)    (m/m)    - - -                   S/.'000- - - - - - - - - -
Instructor Staff                       56,869   208         5,914.4   1,971.4   1,971.5   1,971.5   11,828.8    -         -
Administrative and Support Staff       34,967   192         1,678.4   1,678.4   1,678.4   1,678.4    6,713.6    -         -
Salaries and per diem of Agents                             5,719.8   1,906.0   1,906.0   1,908.0   11,439.8    -         -
Farmer Courses                                                908.5   1,514.0   1,817.0   1,817.0    6,056.5    -         -
Equipment:
2 Vehicles                                                4,076.0      260.0     260.0      280.0    4,876.0   80  17,731
Audiovisual Equipment                                       720.0       50.0      50.0       50.0       870.0   75   2,966
Printing and Publication                                    2,346.0      200.0     100.0      100.0    2,746.0   60   7,489
TOTAL                                                    21,363.1   7,579.8   7,782.9   7,804.9   44,530.7   14  28,186
September 21, 1979
H m
tD 
mx 
0



- 73 -
PERU                                                    ANNEX 2
Table 21
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nutrition Component - Investment and Operating Costs
Year                                             Foreign Exchange
1       2        3        4       Total                                 US$
- - - - - - - -   S/.2000 -        - - -  - - -
Investment  Technical
Assistance and Training
Equipment and supplies for
Project Unit 1/                                 3,080   1,760   1,760   1,760        8,360                      40      15,200
Tools for participating
communities 2/                                  1,980   2,200       880     440      5,500                      30       7,568
Building materials for
participating communities                       2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200        8,800                      10       4,000
Staff training 3/                                 4,400      990      990      990      7,370                      5       1,675
Vehicles and spare parts 4/                        9,240   2,420   3,520   3,520    18,700                        75      63,750
Technical assistance 5/                            4,840   3,080   3,080   3,080    14,080                         70     44,800
Subtotal                                    25,740  12,650  12,430  11,990    62,810                         47    136,993
Operating Costs
Staff salaries 6/                                  5,280   5,280   5,280   5,280    21,120
Per diem                                           1,232   1,386   1,694   1,848        6,160
Vehicle maintenance and fuel                       2,310   2,310   2,310   2,310        9,240                      30     12,600
Credit  Fund7/                                    17,600   4,400   4,400   4,400    30,800                         10     14,000
Surveys and evaluation ./                          3,300   3,300   3,300   3,300    13,200
Subtotal                                    29,722  16,676  16,984  17,138    80,520                         10      36,600
TOTAL                                       55,462  29,326  29,414  29,128   143,330                         26    173,593
1/ Based on typical equipment and supply lists for such programns supported by UNICEF in Peru.
2/ Hand tools to be provided to approximately 40 communities (costing some US$500 equivalent, plus a contingency for
replacement, demonstration, etc.).
3/ Training materials (US$2,000) and per diem (US$5) for 30 days for 60 volunteer sectoristas p.a. in Year 1; per diem
for 15 sectoristas p.a. in subsequent years.
4/ Four 4-wheel drive vehicles, 10 motorcycles and 80 bicycles.
5/  Approximately 14 m/m expatriate technical assistance, including transport and per diem.
6/ Salaries for three professionals (S/. 66,000/mo.) and seven suborofessionals (SI. 3,nonnl/o.) for four vears.
7/ Revolving fund for short-term loans; repayment (including interest) usually in kind.
8/ To be carried out by the National Institute of Nutrition, under an agreement to be signed with the Project Unit.
August 10, 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop and Livestock Research Program: Investment and Operating Costs
Foreign
Station                            Years--------------                       Exchange
Item                    Illpa       Tahuaco         1           2          3          4         Total      %        US$
- - - - - - -                       0 - - - - - - - 0S/.0 O- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Investment
Buildings and furniture                41,244.0   16,355.0   46,080.0   11,519.0          -          -        57,599.0   30   78,544
Fencing                                 3,000.0    2,000.0    4,000.0    1,000.0          -          -         5,000.0   50   11,363
Irrigation improvements                    -          850.0       850.0        -          -          -           850.0   35    1,352
Agricultural machinery and
equipment                          10,212.0    6,666.2   13,500.0    3,378.2           -          -        16,878.2   80   61,375
Machinery and equipment for
for workshops                        6,770.0        -        3,500.0    3,270.0        -          -         6,770.0   70   21,541
Electric generator                      5,077.0    4,400.0    9,477.0         -           -          -         9,477.0   70   30,154
Laboratory equipment and supplies    5,910.0    1,234.0    4,000.0    2,000.0   1,000.0             144.0      7,144.0   75   24,355
Veterinary equipment                      254.0        -          200.0        54.0       -          -           254.0   75        866 >
Audiovisual equipment                     455.5        -          350.0       105.5       -          -           455.5   70    1,449
Office equipment                          507.7       290.0       600.0       197.7       -          -           797.7   45    1,632
Livestock                               2,920.0        -        1,200.0    1,000.0       720.0       -         2,920.0    -        -
Small tools                                85.0        -           50.0        25.0        5.0        5.0         85.0   35        135
Subtotal                            76,435.2   31,795.2   83,807.0   22,549.4   1,725.0           149.0   108,230.4   47  232,766
Operating Costs
Technical staff                         8,160.0    3,600.0    1,500.0    3,420.0   3,420.0    3,420.0   11,760.0    -             -
Operating supplies                      1,000.0    3,000.0    1,000.0    1,000.0   1,000.0    1,000.0    4,000.0   15    2,727
Library irterials                         507.7        -          207.7       100.0      100.0       100.0       507.7   45    1,038
Dormitory supplies                        507.7       254.0       400.0       140.0      140.0        81.7       761.7   15        519
Printing and Publication                  170.0        -           25.0        45.0       48.0        52.0       170.0   25        193
Subtotal                            10,345.4    6,854.0    3,132.7    4,705.0   4,708.0    4,653.7   17,199.4    6    4,477
TOTAL                                 86,780.6   38,649.2   86,939.7   27,254.4   6,433.0   4,802.7   125,429.8   42  237,243
September 21, 1979
I.-



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Table 23
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pirapi Irrigation Training and Demonstration Center - Summary Cost Estimate
Foreign Exchange
Unit      Total          Component
Unit      Quantity       Cost       Cost         %      Amount
US$ equivalent(US$
Construction of buildings                                        US$ equivalent
(teaching, lodging and admin.)       m2           700        100         70,000
Internal irrigation and drainage
canals                                                                     5,0
Various structures                                                           2,900
Land levelling                                                               1,500
Furniture and office equipment                                              11,000
Mechanical equipment, tools and
instruments                                                              94,000
Vehicles (bus and small truck)                                              45,300
Miscellaneous                                                                6,800
Complementary works in the
Pirapi irrigation system
Diesel engine, additional pump                                              41,900
Fuel tank and piping                                                         4,300
Rehabilitation of pumping station                                            5,500
Lining of main canal                                                         5,700
Rehabilitation of service track        km           4.0         5,700       22,800
Subtotal                                                                 317,200      60     190,300
Physical contingencies, 10%                                                 31,800              19,000
Total                                                                    349,000             209,300
August 1979
August 1979



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
PERU                                                Table 24
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Improvement of Roads and Communications Program
Investment and Operating Costs
Foreign Exchange
Years                                   Component
Unit   Quantity               1          2Amount
US$ equivalent                                    UJ
1. Feeder roads (gravel)
Juliaca-Tincopalca          km    139.0               50,000    62,000    62,000                     174,000   30    52,200
Juliaca-Pucara              km      63.0               45,000    49,000    49,250                    143,250   30    42,975
Juliaca-Taraco              km      30.0                  -      59,000    27,250                     86,250   30    25,875
Juliaca-Lampa               km      36.0                  -          -      38,500    65,400         103,900   30    3t,170
Huata-Coata-Capachica       km      40.9                  -          _          -     109,700        109,700   30    32,910
Subtotal             308.9               95,000   170,000   177,000   175,100          617,100   30   185,130
2. Dirt roads
Saman-Arapa                 km      21.7                  -          -          -      46,950         46,950   30    14,085
Lampa-Caracara              km      21.8                  -          -          -      45,400         45,400   30    13,620
Cabanillas-Cabanilla-
Lampa                     km      30.6                 -           -      50,000    45,750         95,750   30    28,725
Taraco-Pusi                 km      36.0                  -          -       50,700    21,450         72,150   30    21,645
Santa Lucia-Paratia         km      43.0              67,950    60,000          -          -         127,950   30    38,385
Pucara-Nicasio              km      26.0               18,050    66,300    66,300          -          84,350   30    25,305
Cabanillas-Cabana-Mana    km        27.0                  -      27,700    59,300          -          87,000   30    26,100
Subtotal             206.0               86,000   154,000   160,000   159,550          559,550   30   167,865
3. Design and supervision of
construction 10% of
(1) + (2)                                           18,100    32,400    33,700    33,465          117,665    -         -
4. Purchase of equipment                                 483,500        -          -          -         483,500  100   483,O00
5. Post offices in Juliaca
and Lampa                                           36,800    28,300         -                    65,100    35       22,785
6. Post offices in commu-
nities                                                 -          -       17,000        -         17,000    30        5,100
7. Baseline  cost                                        719,400   384,700   387,700   368,115    1,859,915   46.5  864,380
8. Physical contingencies,
10% of (7)                                          71,940    38,470    38,770    36,812          185,992            86,440
9.             Grand Total                               791,340   423,170   426,470   404,927    2,045,907   46.5  950,820
Source: Estimates of the Ministry of Transport and Communications Regional Office.
October 1979



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Table 25
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Component
Potable Water and Sanitary Units Systems - Investment CosL,
No. of     Total                  Total
commu-    Pop. to    Type of   No. of        Unit    Total              Foreign Exchange
nities   be served      Unit      Units      Cost    Costs              %          Amount
US$ equivalent
1. Wells w/ hand pumps        20       27,400        A1         180      1,315   236,700
2. Wells w/ windmills and
sanitary units           5         6,910        A2           5     9,660    48,300
3. Wells w/ windmills and
public sinks             5         6,520        A3           5     9,120    45,600
4. Wells w/ windmills,
sanitary units and
public standpipe
connections              9         6,670        A4           9    11,600   104,400
5. Spring water supply
by gravity, w/ sa-
nitary units             4           825        B1           4     5,965    23,860
6. As above, but also
incl. public sinks       1         3,700        B3           5     8,440    42,200
7. As under item 6, above    1            387        B3           1      8,440     8,440
8. Spring water supply by
pumping w/ windmills    1            200        C2           1     9,242      9,242
Subtotal in commu-                                          _
nities                          52,610                   210              5                 30          155,623
9. Health Centers - improvea                         A2          2       6,760   13,520
10. Health Centers - new                              A2          2       9,680   19,320
11. Health Posts - improved                           A2         20       6,760  135,200
12. Health Posts - new                                A2          6       9,660   57,960
Subtotal in health
facilities                                               30              226,000          30           67,800
Total                                                   240              744,742          30          223,423
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                                   74,475                       22,342
Grand Total                                                            819,217          30         245,765
October 1979



- 78 -
PERU                                                          ANNEX 2
Table 26
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Health Program
Investment Costs
years                                                       Foreign
No.  of      Unit        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ __US$                                Exchange
Item                        Units         Cost           1            2            3          4          Total      Equivalent    2        US$
-   _     _   _     _ - - - - - - - - SI. - _-   -   -__ _ _ _ _ _ _
New Health Posts
Construction                 6        2,300,000    6,900,000    4,600,000   2,300,000                 13,800,000    62,727        30    18,818
Equipment                    6          703,144    2,109,432    1,406,288       703,144                4,218,864    19,177        60    11,506
Improved Health Posts
Construction                 7            -           360,000      960,000      480,000                1,800,000     8,182        30     2,455
Equipment                    7          263,304       789,912    1,053,216                             1,843,128     8,378        60     5,027
Health Centers2
Construction               713 m2        23,000    7,049,500    7,049,500                             14,099,000    64,086        30    19,226
Equipment                    3                    10,240,395    6,706,960                            16,947,335    77,033        60    46,220
Lampa Hospital
Construction                20 m2        23,000       460,000                                            460,000     2,091        35       627
Equipment                                          6,562,380                                          6,562,380    29,829         75    22,372
Subtotal                                       34,471,619   21,775,964   3,483,144                59,730,727   271,503        47   126,251
Transport
Ambulance                    3        2,000,000    6,000,000                                           6,000,000    27,273        85    23,182
Rural Health Promoters
Training                    65           34,250    1,015,625    1,015,625                              2,031,250     9,233         5       462
Equipment                   65           60,000    2,047,500    2,047,500                             4,095,000    18,614         55    10,238
Materials                   55           26,500    1,457,500                                           1,457,500     6,625        55     3,644
Regional Staff Training
Internal travel             8            30,000       60,000        60,000      60,000      60,000      240,000      1,091       30        327
Local Consultants           64 m/d       13,500      216,000       216,000     216,000    216,000       864,000      3,927       -          -
Maintenance Workshop
Tools                                                            5,904,000                            5,904,000    26,836        45    12,076
Spare parts                                                      3,300,000                            3,300,000    15,000         55     8,250
TOTAL                                                45,268,244   34,319,089   3,759,144    276,000   83,622,477   380,102          49   184,430
August 3, 1979



- 79 -
ANNEX 2
PERU                                                  Table 27
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Health Program
Operating Costs
Unit                            Years                                         US$'000
Item                      Cost             1            2            3            4           Total      Equivalent
(S  p..)         - - - - - - - -S/.'000 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Personnel
Medical and Dental            511,200       3,578.4      5,112.0      5,112.0      5,112.0
Senior Nurses                 316,800       1,267.2      1,900.8      1,900.8      1,900.8
Nursing and Health
Post Staff                  273,600       8,892.0    11,080.8    11,217.6    11,217.6
Technical and
Administrative Staff        273,600       2,462.4      4,377.6      4,377.6      4,377.6
Service Staff                 216,000       1,512.0      2,160.0      2,160.0      2,160.0
Subtotal                             17,712.0    24,631.2    24,768.0    24,768.0         91,779.2       417.2
Drugs and Medical
Supplies                                   14,200.0    15,904.0    17,812.5    20,484.0         68,400.5       310.9
Food                                          7,000.0      7,840.0      9,000.0      9,900.0      33,740.0       153.4
Operation and Maintenance
of Facilities and Vehicles                 13,500.0    15,700.0    17,000.0    18,700.0         64,900.0       295.0
Total                                  52,412.0    64,075.2    68,580.5    73,852.0    258,819.7    1,176.5
August 3, 1979



- 80 -
ANNEX 2
PERU                                             Table 28
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Vocational Training Centers
Summary of Investment and Operating Costs
- - - - - - - -   Years  - - - - - - - -                        TOTAL
1            2            3            4                        Foreign Exchange
Item                                                                                         %     US$  '000
-     -      -     - -     -      -     - -  S .1000 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Investment
Construction                8,537.31   12,260.80   16,580.96                        37,379.07   20         33.98
Equipment                   8,056.61   19,706.12    5,502.78                        33,265.51   65         98.68
Operating Costs
Personnel                   3,830.40    7,833.60   13,147.20   13,147.20            37,958.40   4--         -0-
Materials                   9,668.82   27,417.78   47,642.26   47,642.26           132,371.12   10         64.36
Total Costs                  30,093.14   67,218.30   82,873.20   60,789.46           240,974.10   17        197.02
No. of       No. of       No. of       No. of
Types of Centers              Centers       Centers      Centers      Centers
a.  Rug weaving                                           4            4
b.  Woven garments             1            5             5            5
c.  School gardens             3             7            9            9
d.  Hat making                                            2            2
e.  Leatherwork                1            1             1            1
f.  Brickmaking                2             2            2            2
Total No. of Centers              7           15           23           23
July 9, 1979



- 81 -
ANNEX 2
Table 29
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Second Phase Studies Program
Summary Cost Table
Years                          Foreign Exchange
Item                           1           2          3        Total       %        US$
_                f------ -S/.000-    -------
1.  Crop and Livestock
Studies
A. Technical Staff
Salaries                 46,120      46,120                 92,240      46     192,000
Travel and per diem       5,482       5,482                 10,964      10       4,984
B. Support Staff             4,800       4,957                  9,757
C. Vehicles:
Purchase                 10,718                             10,718      80      38,974
O&M                       1,200       1,327                  2,527      50       5,743
D. Equipment and
Supplies                2,100         864.3                2,964.3   65        8,758
Subtotal                 70,420      58,750.3              129,170.3   43      250,459
2.  Water Resource Studies      10,500      48,108                 58,608      16      43,600
3.  Planning Committee                       5,561    11,122       16,683      10        7,831
Total                       80,920    112,419.3  11,122       204,461      32     301,890
September 27, 1979



- 82 -
ANNEX 2
Table 30
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Phasing
Item                                                                Years   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -
1                 2                 3                 4               Total
------------------U- S$ _-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_
Irrigation Works
Huata-Quita System                              178,050           237,850           129,600           121,500            667,000
Cabanillas System                               147,490           191,000           147,540           140,000            626,030
Taraco System                                   364,650           419,340           417,530           114,060          1,315,580
Buena Vista System                                                                  230,000           358,800            588,800
Small-scale Systems                              13,500            62,600            62,500            62,300            200,900
Equipment                                       184,100                                                                  184,100
Subtotal                                      887,790           910,790           987,170           796,660          3,582,410
Crop and Livestock Production
Program
On-farm Investment                              614,564         1,157,186         1,623,123         1,432,945          4,827,818
Farm Production Inputs                          369,875           563,454           621,183           609,809          2,164,321
Subtotal                                      984,439         1,720,640         2,244,306         2,042,754          6,992,139
Project Unit
Project Director's Office Staff                  37,488            37,488            37,488            37,488            149,952
Office of Project Supervision Staff              48,925            62,258            62,258            62,258            235,699
Farm Extension Staff                            310,334           387,917           426,709           426,709          1,551,669
Technical Assistance                            288,000           288,000           176,000            80,000            832,000
Equipment                                       145,000            30,385                                                175,835
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance                15,200            35,000            35,000            43,000            128,200
Facilities                                       45,000            2.5,000            6,818             6,818             83,636
Nutrition Staff and Equipment                   252,100           133,300           133,700           132,400            651,500
Extension Staff Training                         97,105            34,454            35,377            35,477            202,413
Subtotal                                    1,239,152         1,034,252           913,350           824,150         4,010,904
Forestry Program                                  125,036           216,853           174,580           112,651            629,120
Research Program
Crop and Livestock Research Program             395,180           123,884            29,241            21,830           570,135
Pirapi Irrigation Research and Demonstration 154,800              125,400            37.000                              317,200
Center
Subtotal                                      549,980           249,284            66,241            21,830           887,335
Roads and Communications Program
Road Maintenance Equipment                      483,500                                                                  483,500
Road Rehabilitation and Improvement             199,100           356,400           370,700           368,115          1,294,315
Rural Post Offices                               36,800            28 300            17,000                               82,100
Subtotal                                      719,400           384,700           387,700           368,115         1,859,915
Social Infrastructure
Rural Health Investment Program                 205,765           155,996            17,087             1,255            380,103
Potable Water Program                           124,120           206,874           206,874           206,874            744,742
Vocational Education Centers                     75,427           145,304           100,381                             321,112
Subtotal                                      405,312           508,174           324,342           208,129         1,445,957
Second-Phase Studies                              367,818           510,997            50,555                             929,370
Base Costs                                      5,278,927         5,535,690         5,148,244         4,374,289        20,337,150
Contingencies
Physical (10.)                                  466,436           437,850           352,512           294,134         1,550,932
Price                                           739,050         1,273,209        1,647,438         1,793,459          5,453.156
Total Estimated Costs                           6,484,413         7,246,749         7,148,194         6,461,882         27,341,238
October 1979



- 83 -
ANNEX 2
Table 31
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Financing
Item                         Beneficiaries     Government            Bank              Total
------------------------------    us$  ------------------------ U-$
Equipment
Irrigation Program                                                70,820           283,280            354,100
Project Unit                                                      57,391            229,562           286,953
Forestry Program                                                   6,038             24,153            30,191
.Research Program                                                 74,296            297,183            371,479
Roads Program                                                     96,700            386,800           483,500
Rural Health Program                                              41,428            165,712           207,140
Potable Water Program                                             30,000            120,000           150,000
Vocation Education Centers                                        30,241            120,966           151,207
Phase II Studies                                                   9,744             38,974            48,718
Subtotal                                                       416,658         1,666,630          2,083,288
Civil Works
Irrigation Program                                               645,662          2,582,648         3,228,310
Project Unit                                                      16,726             66,904            83,630
Research Program                                                  60,337            241,349           301,686
Roads Program                                                    275,283          1,101,132         1,376,415
Health Program                                                    27,417            109,669           137,086
Potable Water Program                                            118,948            475,794           594,742
Vocation Education Centers                                        33,981            135,924           169,905
Subtotal                                                     1,178,354         4,713,420          5,891,774
Operating Costs
Project Unit Staff                                               412,264          1,649,056         2,061,320
Project Unit Vehicle O&M                                          34,040            136,160           170,200
Nutrition Program inputs                                          48,600            194,400           243,000
Research Program                                                  42,834            171,336           214,170
Forestry Program                                                 119,786            479,143           598,929
Subtotal                                                       657,524          2,630,095         3,287,619
Training and Studies
Project Unit Extension Staff                                      17,629            158,666           176,295
Nutrition Program                                                  9,350             84,150            93,500
Second Phase Studies                                              68,865            619,787           688,652
Health Personnel training                                          3,587             32,290            35,877
Subtotal                                                        99,431            894,893           994,324
Technical Assistance:  Salaries, Travel
and Allowances
Project Unit Consultants                                                            832,000           832,000
Nutrition Program Consultants                                                        64,000            64,000
Second Phase Studies                                                               192,00   192.000
Subtotal                                                                       1,088,000          1,088,000
On-farm Inveatment and Production Costs
On-farm Investment                            434,504          4,393,314                            4,827,818
Incremental Production Costs                  194 789          1,969,532                            2,164,321
Subtotal                                    629,293          6,362,846                            6,992,139
Baseline Cost                                   629,293          8,714,813         10,993,038        20,337,144
Contingencies                                   170,000          2,827,133          4,006,962         7,004,094
Total                                      799,293         11,541,945        15,000,000         27,341,238
February 1980.



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Cropland By Farr. TyTpe. Without and With Project
Minifundistas and Small Farmers                      Medium Farmerb        _GEs'rand Total
%        Rainfed     Irrigated       Total         Rainfed      Irrigated      Total          Rainfed     Irrijated    Total            Raiffe,ud   Irrigated      Total
-   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -   l,a    -___- _________________,,_,__,    _,___ - - - -
Without Project
Potatoes           46        4,360          265         4,625             295          25            320            560           -           560           5,215           290       5,505
Quinua             23        2,110          180         2 ,290            145          20            165            245           -           245           2,500           200       2,700
CaMhua              9          990            -           990              60          -                             40           -            40           1,090            -        1,090
Barley Grain       18        1,970            -         1,970            130           -             130             85           -            85           2,185            -        2,185
Others              4          335            95          430              20          l5             35             15           -            15             370           110         480
TOTAL       100        9,765           540       10,305             650           60           710             945                       945         11,360           600      11,960
With Project
Potatoes           51        3,895        1,280         5,175             250         250            500            410          255          665           4,555        1,785        6,340
Quinua             24        1,625          960        2,585             100          125           225              70           75          145           1,795        1,160        2,955
Barley Grain       13        1,235          320        1,555              25           -             25              _     -                   -            1,260           320       1,580
Others             12          395          640        1,035             125          125           250              70           70          140             590           835       1,425
TOTAL       100        7,150         3,200       10,350             506         500          1,000             550         400          950           8,200         4,100      12,300
August 6, 1979



- 85 -
ANNEX 2
Table 33
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Yield Schedule for Major Crops
Without        - - - - -    With Project  - - - - - -             Without      - - - - - - With Project -  - - - - - -
Item                         Project       Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4           Project      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4
- - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - m tons/ha   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Minifundistas and Small Farms                                      Medium Farmi  and AREEs
RAINFED
Potatoes (Dulce)               3.0          4.0         5.0         6.0         6.0               5.0          6.0         7.0         8.0         8.0
Potatoes (Amarga)              3.20         4.2         5.5         6.8         6.8               5.2          6.5         7.5         8.5         9.0
Quinua                        0.30          0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5               0.60         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.8
CaYlihua                      0.30          0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5               0.55         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.8
Barley (Grain)                0.35          0.45        0.55        0.65        0.65              0.7          0.8         0.9         1.0         1.0
Barley (Straw)                0.60          0.7         0.80        0.9         1.0               1.1          1.1         1.2         1.3         1.3
Barley (Hay)                  2.4           4.0         5.0         6.95        6.95              4.2                                             10.9
Others.!/                     0.50          0.6         0.7         0.8         0.8               0.8          0.9         1.0         1.1         1.1
Oats (Hay)                                                                                           .        18.0        18.0        18.0        18.0
IRRIGATED
Potatoes (Dulce)              5.5           6.5         8.5         9.0         9.0               6.5          8.0        10.0        10.5        10.5
Quinua                        0.7           0.8         1.0         1.0         1.0               0.8          0.9         1.0         1.2         1.2
Oat (Hay)                     9.07         10.5        12.0        13.3        13.3              10.9                                             15.7
Others .!/                    1.0           1.2         1.4         1.4         1.4               1.2          1.5         1.6         1.7         1.7
Barley (Grain)                 -            0.55        0.65        0.85        0.85              1.0          1.2         1.4         1.4         1.4
Barley (Straw)                 _            0.83        0.98        1.275       1.275             1.8          2.2         2.2         2.2         2.2
1/ Lupines, beans,  oca and vegetables.
August 31, 1979



- 86 -
PERU                                                      ANNEx 2
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Farm Input Requirements
Seeds               Fertilizers             Chemicals             Spray Kits                   Total
LuUU a/.   ub:  u       000 S/.  US$          '000 S/.  US$          '000 S/.  US$           '0007 I/.     USS-
Minifundistas
Year 1                       22,712    103,236        8,622    39,189       4,933    22,423        2,983    13,560         39,250      178,408
Year 2                       37,864    172,110       14,373    65,334       8,224    37,382        4,990    22,680         65,451      297,506
Year 3                       45,392    206,327       17,231    78,322       9,859    44,814        5,914    26,880         78,395      356,343
Year 4                       45,392    206,327       17,231    78 322       9.859    44,814        5993    27,240          78 475      356 703
Total                  151,360    688,000       57,457   261,167      32,875   149,433      19,880    90,360        261,571    1,188,960
Small Farms
Year 1                       11,454     52,063        4,508    20,493       2,461    11,187        1,118     5,080         19,541       88,824
Year 2                       19,090     86,773        7,515    34,158       4,102    18,646        2,138     9,720         32,845      149,297
Year 3                       22,917    104,169        9,030    41,044       4,923    22,379        2,534    11,520         39,405      179,112
Year 4                       22,917    104.170        9,030    41,045       4,923    22,379        2,560    11,640         39 431      179.234
Total                   76,378    347,176       30,083   136,740     16,410    74,591        8,351    37,960        131.Z         596467
Medium Farms
Year 1                        3,022     13,736        1,352     6,148         909     4,133          422     1,920          5,706       25,937
Year 2                        4,649     21,131        2,081     9,458       1,399     6,358          660     3,000          8,788       39,947
Year 3                        6,973     31,897        3,121    14,187       2,098     9,537       1,003      4,560         13,196       59,981
Year 4                        8,601     39.093        3,849    17,497       2,588    11,762        1214      5.520         16,252       73,872
Total                   23,245    105,657       10,404    47,290      6,994    31,790         3,300    15.000         43,942      199,737
AREs
Year 1                       12,757     57,988           58       265       3,160    14,363          900     4,090         16,875       76,706
Year 2                       12,757     57,987           58       265       3,160    14,363          900     4,090         16,875       76,705
Year 3                        4,252     19,329           58       264       1,053     4.788          300     1,365          5.663       25,746
29,767    135,304          174       794      7.373    33,514        2.100      9.545        39,414       179.157
TOTALS
Year 1                       49,945    227,024       14,540    66,095     11,463    52,106        5,423    24,650          81,372      369,875
Year 2                       74,360    338,001       24,027   109,215      16,885    76,748       8,688    39,490         123,960      563,454
Year 3                       79,535    361,522       29,440   133,818      17,934    81,518        9,751    44,325        136,660      621,183
Year 4                       76,910    349,590       30,110   136,864      17,370    78,955        9,768    44,400        134,158      609 809
476,150    2,164,321
1/ Fertilizers and pesticides.
August 27, 1979.



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPNETr PROJECT
Model 1:  Soles ad Oper-tin Costs for Mioifundieta (Average holdino 1.1 ha)
- - - - - - - - -  Without Projct  - - - - - - - - -          - - - - - - - - - - -  With Project (At Full Development)  - - - - - - - - - - - - -
A. Crops  (0.7 ha)                                 Potatoge    Qoinu-      Brfrj         Others   Total           Potatoes             OQi...                 Boris11              Others          Total
Rdnofed     Rlnfed      Rdafed       Rinfed                Ir.        Dry        Icr.     Dry         Irr       Dry        Irr.       Dy
Production
(h.)              Romfed                    0.35        0.18        0.10         0.07       0.7        0.09       0.26      0.06     0.12         0.03      0.07       0.04      0.03       0.7
Irrigated
Yield (a  ton/ho) Ramifed                   3.0         0.30      350/525        0.500                9.0         6.0       1.0      0.5         0.850     0.650       1.40      0.8
Irrigated                              .45                                                                                     1,275       975
Production (kg)   Rainfed                   1.050       0.054       0.035        0.035                0.810       1.560      .060    .060        25.5      45.5       56        24
Irrigated
Price  (S/.Ikg)                            35          65          48/06        48                    35         35        65       65           48/06      48/06     48        48
Gr.ee V1lue of Production                                                                                                                       40,800(G)  31,200(0)
7.650(S)   5fl$50S)
Gross Volte of Production                                      16,800/3,150                          315,000    210,000    65,000   32,100     48,450      37,050
Per ha (S/.)                           105,000      19,500      19,950        24,000               28,350     54,600     3,900    3,900       1,454      2,594      2,688      1,152
Total per fore                             36,750       3,510       1,995        1,680     43,935          82,950                7,800                 4,048                3,840           98,588
r tiP Crste
p mw 5.) 
Seed,                                      38,500       1,073       4,320        3,840               43,500      43,500       700      849      5,000       5,000      4,000     4,160
Ferctilier-                                   -           -           -            -                  14,448     10,416     9,632    3,360       8,736      6,720      7,728     3,360
Chemi.sl                                    2 070         -           -             -                  9832       7 666     5,183    1 992         -          -        1.439       765
Shbtot1         4          '0         570 1,073   73, 840                 67,70                61,582    15,515       6      1 13,736    11,720     13,167    =8!
FPily Labor                                20,000       7,500       7,500         7,500               28,750     25,000    15,000   10,000      11,500     10,000     15,000    10,000
Anisi1 Lebsr                                5,000       1,500       1,500        1,500                10,000      7,000     5,000    3,000       4,500      3,500      5,000     3,000
COauI Lbor                                   -           -           -            -                   5,935        -       1,746      -         1,746        -        3,435       -
Mlieceiioneoue                              2 277         128         292          273                 4 276      3,430     1 049      460       1,234        761      1.004       584
Subtotsl                 717          T           T.7 7!l      f l8 961                        35,430    22795 T             TM1,        14,261               13,584
Gr"nd Total              67,847      10,201      13,612       13,113               116,741     97,012    38,310   19,661      32,716     25,981     37,606    21,869
per fore Total                    23,746       1,836       1,361          918     27,861    10,507      25,223     2,299    2,359        981      1,819       1,504       656
Operating Incece  (Crope)                                                                                    35,730                4,658                2,800                 2,160           45,348
P-r h.  (5/.)37,153                                     9,299       6,338       10,887               198,259    112,988     7,190   12,839      13,184     11,069     29,594    16,531
Per fare (S.)                             13,003       1,674         634           762    16,079    17,843      29,376     1,601    1,541
47,220                3,142               1,171                  1,680          53,240
Pen for (US$)                               59.10        7.61        2.88         3.46      73.06          214.63                14.28                 5.32                  7.37           242.00
** Lupinee, Beon,, VeSetable. Oca. etc.
B. Live-stok  (0.4 ha)                             Sh p        Poultrv     Poultrv        Pigs     Totai                             Ahisgt Poultry                   ltrv          Pig,            Total
Wool i  MAt       Birds       Egg.                                                 Wol   Mt             Birda         E.Se
Productimo
Nsaber Basic Stock                     One Unit         4F_-M                      27 IN                                   One UnPt           4F-IM                         2F 1M
Nmber of Unit, -r Kg Sold A-euaily   0.6        1          12         100            6                                   0.6       1          20/26          160                8
C rp.. Equivelnt Weight Sold (Kg)               6                                    75                                           10.3                                        128
Price per Kg op Unit                   320   200          400          16          190                                   320     200          400             16              190
Prsductisn TosL Unite                                                 216                                                                                    320
Unite consumed by Feily                                                90                                                                                    120
V.lue Production Seld on conum d
by FPily                             192  1,200       4,800       3,040       14,250    24,092                         256   2,060         10,400       4,480            24,320          65,580
Opratieg Caste
For-ge Feed far Poultry, Sheep ad Pigs        500         500                      995                                       500                 500                        2,971           3,971
Value of Feed for Pigs (Additional)                                              9,067                                                        1,592                         8,693
Totals                      500         500                   10,062    11,062                                              2,592                        11,664         14,256
Op-reting Iise-  (Lvestock) Sg.                                                              13,030                                                                                          51,324
US$                                                            59.22                                                                                           232.30
Grad Total                    S/.                                                            29,100                                                                                         104,564
,, 'OnUs$                                                                           132.29                                                                                           475.29
Agute 10, 1979



-8-                                                    NEPERU  Table 36
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1:  Consolidated Farm Budget for Minifundist.1'
With Project
without--- -- - -- -- - - ---- --                     Years   - -- ---- - -- - -- ---
Project      1          2         3          4         5         6          7         8         9
Inflow       -------                 -----------                                           St.     -----------------
Sales and On-farm Consumption
Crops                                 43,935   6.9,030   87,067   98,638   98,368   98,368   98,638   98,368   98,638   98,368
Livestock                             24,092   49,185   55,743   65,580   65,580   65,580   65,580   65,580   65,580   65,580
Long-term Loan                           -      24,597       -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -
Short-term Loan                          -      19.234       -                                        -------
Subtotal                           68,027  162,046  142,810  164,218  164,218  164,218  164,218  164,218  164,218  164,218
Outflow
Investment
Improved Pasture (0.3 ha)                -       4,500       -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -
Pump System                              -      21,392       -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -
Operating Costs
Crops                                27,861   45,348   45,348   45,348   45,348   45,348   45,348   45,348   45,348   45,348
Livestock                             11,062   14,256   14,684         -         -          -         -         -          -         -
Irrigation (O&M: 0.22 ha)                -       5,441    5,441    5,441    5,441    5,441    5,441    5,441    5,441    5,441
Subtotal                           38,923   90,937   65,483   65,483   65,483   65,483   65,483   65,483   65.483   65,483
Net Inflow                         29,104   71,109   77,337   98,735   98,735   98,735   98,735   98,735   98,735   98,735
Debt Service
Short-term Loan
Interest (31% p.s. for 0.5 yr.)    -            2,981      -    -          -         -               -         -         -          -
Principal                               -      1,3                                                                         
Long-term LoanZ 2/924                                       --                                                               
interest (33%)                          -       8,117    8,117       8,117    8,117      7,270    6,143    4,644        2,650       -
Principal                               -        -         -          -        2,567    3,414    4,541    6,040    8.034            -
Subtotal                               -      30,312    8,117    8,117   10,684   10,624   10,684   10,684   10,684                -
Balance                                 29,104   60,625   69,220   90,618   88,051   88,051   88,051   88,051   88,051   98,735
Imput Return to Family Labor on          9,625   13,133   13,133   13,133   13,133   13,133   13,133   13,133   13,133   13,133
the Farm
Net Flow                                38,729   73,758   82,353  103,751  101,184  101,184  101,184  101,184  101,184  111,868
Incremental Net Flow                       -      35,029   43,624   65,022   62,455   62,455   62,455   62,4)5   62,455   73,139
1/ Assumed to participate in pumped irrigation system.
2/ Includes irrigation investment cost recovery through repayment of long-term loan for 957. of S/.21,392 (for 0.22
irrigated ha).
September 25, 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 2    - Sale. nd Operating Costs for Snall Farmer  (Aver-at   Holding 12.2 ha)
- - - - - - - - -   Without- - - - - - - -  -                                             - -Uith Project (At Pull Dev.lopment)   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
A.  Crop. (0.8 ha)                             Potatoes    Quinu-        Baley        Others        Total            Potatoes                Quinus               Bane                   Others            Total
Grin/Strew                                                                                GrAin/Straw
Rainfed     Rinfed      Rinfed         Rainfed                     Irr.       Dry        Irr.       Dry        Irr.       Dry        Irr.        Dry
Production
Area (h.)                                 0.40      0.20          0.15         0.10         0.85          0.10        0.30      0.07        0.13      0.04        0.11      0.06        0,04       0.85
Yield (o ton)                             3.0       0.30        350/525        500                        9.0         6.0       1.0         0.5       0.85        0.65      1.40        0.80
Production (kg)                         1,200      60.0           052.5        50.0                       0900       1800       70         65         1.275        .975    84          32
Price (S/./kg)                           35        65            48/06         48                         35          35        65         65         48/6        48/6     48          48
40,800(G)  31,200(G)
Gross Value of Production                                    16,800/3,150                                                                              7 650(S)   5 850(5)
Per ha  (S1.)                        105,000     19,500       19,950        24,000       168,450       315,000   210,000      65,000    32,500      4t450       32,050   67,200      38,400     813,600
per farm by Method                    42,000      3,900        2,993         2,400        51,293        31,500    63,000       4,550      4,225      1,938       4,076    4,032       1,536
Total per farm                                                                                               94,500                 8,775                  6,014               5,568            114,857
peatin  Cos
per h Sl17
Seeds                                   38,500      1,073        4,320         3,840                      43,500    43,500         700        849      5,000       5,000    4,000       4,160
Fertilisers                               .           -           .             .                         14,448    10,416       9,632      3,360      8,736       6,720    7,728       3,360
Chemicals                                2.070        -           -             -                          9 832      7 666      5 183      1 992       -           -       1.439         765
Subtotal           40,570       1,073       4,320          3,840                      67,780    61,582     15,515      6,201     13,736      11,720   13,167       8,285
Family Labor                            20,000       7,500       7,500          7,500                     28,750    25,000      15,000    10,000      11,500      10,000   15,000      10,000
Animal Labor                             5,000       1.500       1.500         1,500                      10,000      7,000      5,000      3,000      4,500       3,50O    5,000       3,000
Casual Labor                                         -            -             -                          5,935       -         1,746       -         1,746        -       3,435        -
Miscellaneous                            2 277         128         292            273                       4 276     3,430      1.049        460      1.234         761    1.004         584
Subtotal           27,277       9,128      9q9,2292                                  48,961    35,430      22,795    13,460      18,980      14,261   24,439      13,584
Grand Totd1                                                                          116,741    97,012      38,310    19,661      32,716     25,981   37,606      21,869      389,896
Grand Total        67,847      10,201      13,612         13,113      104,773         11,674    29,104       2,682     2,556       1,309      2,858    2,257         875
per farm         27,139       2,040       2,042          1,311       32,532              40,778                 5,238                 4,167                3,132             53,315
Op rating Income (Crops)
Par ha                                                                                      63,677                                                                                                423,704
Per farm  (S/.)                                                                             18,761                                                                                                 61,542
Per farm  (US1)                                                                              85.27                                                                                                  279.73
L* Lupine., Beans, Vegetable., Oc., etc.
p.  Livestock (11.4 ha)                            Cottle             Shea       Guinea Pig.                                 Cattle             Sh            n   t
Production                                 Milk   Meat       Wool  aMet          Rt                                 Milk   Meat       Wool   Meat         -
Number Baeic Stock                                          6 2F  16.    its  1M-4F                                   1   F          316,5 Units     18-
Number Units or kg Sold Annually         401      1        17.4                                                    701             35.74                8
Carcass Equivalent Weight Sold (kg)             23.5             37.96                                                    27.0              90.1
Price per kg or Unit                     45     180        320    200        400                                  45      180      320      200       400
Units  or kg conesued by family          601                                   9go 90                                                                  16.8
Value Prod. Sold or Conuomed             4,500  4,230   2,368   7,592      3,600            22,290                7,200  4,860    11,436   18,020  6,720                                           48,236
Operating Csste
Forage for liv-stock                              800            1,993       200             2,993                    2,500             2,500       1,014
Unimproved Pasture (10.4 ha)
Improved Pasture (1.0) 1/                                                                     -                       1,025             -000
Total                         800           1,993        E              2,993                    3,525             3,500       1,014                                            7,025
Operating Income (Livestock) S/.                                                              19,297                                                                                                  41,211
US$                                                              87.71                                                                                                  187.32
Grand Total S/.                                                                               30,058                                                                                                 102,753
115                                                                             172.98                                                                                                  467.05
1/  Investment cost handled in cssh flow; only maintenance cost Appears.
December 12, 1979                                                      -                                                                                                                                               p



- 90 -                                      ANNEX 2
Table 38
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 2:  Consolidated Farm Budget for Small Farmerl/
With Project
Without   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   Years   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project     1        2         3        4         5        6        7         8        9        10
Inflow                     -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  VS/.  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 
Sales
Crops                      51,293   79,895  100,740  114,857  114,857  114,857  114,857  114,857  114,857  114,857  114,857
Livestock                  22,290   24,118   31,353   41,000   48,236   48,236   48,236   48,236   48,236   48,236   48,236
Long-term Loan                -     14,250     -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -
Short-term Loan               -     13,900   13,900      -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -
Subtotal                73,583  132,163  145,993  155,857  163,093  163,093  163,093  163,093  163,093  163,093  163,093
Outflow
Investment (1 ha pasture)      -     15,000     -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -
Operating Costs                -       -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -
Crops                      32,532   53,315   53,315   53,315   53,315   53,315   53,315   53,315   53,315   53,315   53,315
Livestock                   2,993    7,025    7,025    7,025    7,025    7,025    7,025    7,025    7,025    7,025    7,025
Irrigation O&M           2/   -      3,697    3,697    3,697    3,697    3,697    3,697    3,697    3,697    3,697    3,697
Irrigation Cost Recovery-    -       1,075    1,075    1,075    1,075    1,075    1,075    1,075    1,075    1,075    1,075
Subtotal                 35,525   80,112   65,11    65.112   65,112   65,112   65,112   65,112   65,112   65,112   65,112
Net Inflow               38,058   52,051   80,881   90,745   97,981   97,981   97,981   97,981   97,981   97,981   97,981
Debt Service
Short-term Loan
Interest (31Z p.a. for
0.5 yr.)             -       2,155    2,155     -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -
Principal                    -     13,900   13,900      -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -
Long-term Loan
Interest (33%)               -      4,703    4,703    4,703    4,703    4,703    4,212    3,589    2,691    1,536         -
Principal                    -       -        -         -        -        1,487    1,978    2,631    3,499    4,654       -
Subtotal
Balance                      38,050   31,293   60,123   86,042   93,274   91,791   91,791   91,791   91,791   91,791   97,981
Imputed Return to Family   11,375   15,585   15,585   15,585   15,585   15,585   15,585   15,585   15,585   15,585   15,585
Labor on the Farm
Net Flow                     49,425   46,878   75,708  101,627  1n8,85A  107,376  107,376  107,376  107,376  107,376  113,566
Incremental Net Flow            -     (2,547)  26,283   52,202   59,434   57,951   57,951   57,951   57,951   57,951   64,141
1/ Assumed to be in Taraco Irrigation Project.
2/ 22 p.a. for 50 years, as per calculation in Annex 3, Table 55.
September 25, 1979



-91 -                            ANNEX 2
Table 39
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 3: Medium Farmer Investment Program
Foreign
No. of     Unit                       Exchange
Item                   Unit   Units       Cost        Investment    %      US$
--        -SI- - - - -. 
Turnips                 ha     3.3       24,000          79,200    70      252
Improved Pasture        ha     2.4       15,000          36,000    75      123
Artificial Pasture      ha     3.3       30,000          99,000    75      338
Electric Fence          No     1         51,000          51,000    80       185
Water Installation      No      1        45,000          45,000    30        61
Milking Equipment       No      1        22,000           22,000    50       50
Sheds                   No     1         48,000          48,000    15       33
Tractor and Equip-      No     0.05  6,406,000          320,300    75   1,092
ment Set
Miscellaneous           -      -           -              69,500    67      212
Total                                         770,000    66   2,346
August 21, 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 3 - Sales and Operating Costs for Medium Farmer (93.0 ha)
Without Project                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~With Projct(A  Fl Development)
A. Crops  (1.08 ha)                        Potatoes       Quinua         Barle           Others**       Total              Potatoes                   Quin.A                   Others             Total
Grain    a
Rainfed       Rainfed        Rainfed         Rainfed                        Irr.         Dry         Irr.         Dry         Irr.        Dry
Production
Area (ha)                           0 48           0.24           0.12            0.24          1.08             0.5         0.5         0.28         0.22        0.25         0.25       2.00
Yield  a ton/ha                     5.0            0.60       0.700/1,050        0.800                         10.5          8.0         1.2          0.8         1.700        1.10
Production m ton
Price (5/./kg)                     35             65              48/06         48                              35          35          65           65          48           48
Gross Value of Prod.
Per ha          (S/.)         175,000        39,000    33,600  6,300       38,400        292,300          367,500  280,000        78,000       52,000       81,600     52,800      911,900
Total per far. (S/.)           84,000          9,360     4,032    756       9,216        107,364          183,750  140,000        21,840       11,440       20,400      13,200
4,788                                             323,750                 33,280                    33,600            390,630
0 eratink Coats
Per ha (S/.)
Seeds                               38,500          1,073          4,800          3,840                          43,500   43,500          700          840        6,240       4,160
Fertilizers                         10,416          7,728          6,720          3,360                          14,448   12,992        9,632        8,400        7,728       5,040
Chemicals                            7,666          2,613           -              -                              9 832    8,614        5.183        8 015        2,782       2 738
Subtotal               56,582         11,414         11,520          7200                           67780   65,106        15,515       17 ,255      16,750      11,938
Machinery Services                  20,730         14,511         12,438         10,365                          29,022   24,876       20,730       16,584       18,657      12,438
Animal Labor                         3,000          1,500          2,000          1,000                           2,000    2,000        2,000        1,500        2,000       1,000
Permanent Labor                     21,250         10,000         10,000         11,250                          22,500   22,500       11,250       10,000       11,250      11,250
Casual Labor                         2,500           -              -              -                              8,750    5,000        3,750        1,250        3,750        -
Miscellaneous                        4.284          1.389          1,326            988                           5,679    5.146        2.316        1.668        2,319     1.287.J
Subtotal               51,764         27,400         25,764         23,603                          67,951   59,522       40,046       31,002       37,976      25,975
Grand Total
per ha                 108,346         38,814         37,284         30,803        215,247          135,731  124,628       53,561       48,257       54,726      37,913      454,816
per farm (S/.)          52,006          9,315          4,474          7,393         73,188           67,866   62,314       14,977       10,617       13,682       9,478
130,180                 25,593                    23,160           178,933
OperatingIncone
Per ha M (Solea)77,053                                                                                                                                                              457,084
Per fare (Soles)                                                                               34,176                                                                                    211,697
Per farm (Dollars)                                                                             155.34                                                                                     962.26
** Lupines, beans, vegetables, oca, etc.
B. Livestock (91.92 ha)                                Cattle           Sheep            Poultry                                     Cattle              Sheep             Poultry
Milk    Meat    Wool    Meat    Birds   Eggs                                 Milk      Meat      Wool     Meat      Birds    Eggs
production
Number Basic Stock                             6.8              11.75            4F-1M                                          16                133               4F-JM
Number of Units or kg  Sold Annually       561              12.4                12    100                                1,5101              183                   26     160
Carcass Equivalent Weight Sold (kg)                 153.6             27                                                           500                 462
Price per kg  or Unit                      45       180      320    200        400      16                                  45     180       320       200        400      16
Production Total Units                    1161                                         216                               2,z401                                           320
Units Consumed by Family                   60R                                          90                                 7301                                           120
Value of Production Sold or Consumed  5,220   27,648    3,968  5,400         4,800  3,040      50,076                  100,800  90,000   58,560   92,400    10,400   4,480              356,640
Operatin ACosts I./
Peed and Other Charges                       19,543             7,708              780         28,031                       70,064             65,442               2,971               138,477
Operating Income (S/.)                                                                           22,045                                                                                    218,163
(US$)                                                                          100.2Q                                                                                    991.65
Grand Total       (W5.)                                                                          56,221                                                                                    429 860
(Ust                                                                           255.54                                                                                      1,954
1/  Pasture Investment and maintenance costs are covered in the investment end cash flow tables, respectively.



PERU
PUOli RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 3: Cash Flow for Medium Farmerl/
With Project
Without                                                                     Years
Project          1           2           3            4           5           6            7           8           9            10       11-15
Inflow                                     -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  5   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
S ales
Crops                                 107,364        300,190     358,340     390,630      390,630     390,630     390,630      390,630     390,630     690,630      390,630     390,630
Livestocka                             85,788        178,320     231,816     267,840     285,312      320,976     356,640     356,640      356,640     356,640      356,640     356,640
Long-term loan                                       693,000
Subtotal                              193,152      1,171,510     590,156     658,470     675,942      711,606     747,270      747,270     747,270     747,270      747,270     747,270
Outflow
Investment                                              770,000
Operating Costs
Crops                                    73,188       138,900     178,933     178,993      178,993     178,993     178,993      178,993     178,993     178,993      177;293     178,993
Livestock                               28,031        108,477     143,337     150,020      150,020     150,020     150,020      150,020     150,020     150,020      150,020     150,020
Irrigation 06M          2/                              5,486       5,486       5,486       5,486        5,486       5,486       5,486        5,486       5,486        5,486       5,486
Irrigation Cost Recovery-             4_029                         4029        4,029       4,029        4,029       4,029 4,029 4,029                    4            4,029       4,029
Subtotal                                101,219       256,892     331,785     338,468      338,468     338,468     338,468      338,468     338,468     338,468      338,468     338,468
Net Inflow                                   91,933       14k,618      258,371    320,002      337,474     373,138     408,802      408,802     408,802     408,802      408,802     408,802
Debt Service
Long-term loan
Interest (33.)                                      114,345     228,690    228,690      228,690      228,690     228,690     204,820      173,072     130,848       74,690       -
Principal                                                                                                         72,334      96,204      127,952     170,176      226,334       -
Subtotal
Balance                                     91,933         30,273       29,681     91,312     108,784      144,448     107,778     107,778      107,778     107,778      107,778     318,468
Imputed Return to Family Labor              16,500        33,475       33,475      33,475      33,475       33,475      33,475      33,475      33,475       33,475      33,475       33,475
Net Flow                                   108,433         63,748      63,156     124,787      134,259     177,923     141,253     141,253      141,253     141,253      141,253     352,943
Incremental Net Flow                                      (44,485)    (45,277)     16,354      25,826       69,490      32,820      32,820       32,820      32,820       32,820     244,510
1/ Assumed to be in Huata-Quita and Cabanillas Irrigation District.
2/  27. per annum for 50 years.
September 25, 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 4 - Sales and Operating Costs for   ARE    (average holding 70,290 ha)
- - - - - - - - - - - -  Without Project  - - - - - - - - -             - - - - -   With Project (At Full Development) - - - - -
for-age
Crops                                           Potatoes      Quinua        Barley         Otherel/     Total               Potatoes                 Quinua                    Others               Total
Grain/Straw
Rainfed      Rainfed       Rainfed        Rainfed                       Irr.         Dry        Irr.         Dry         Irr.         Dry
Production
Area (ha)                                      80.0         40.0          12.0           2.1        134.1            36          59          10.6         10.1        10.0        10.0          135.7
Yield m ton/ha                                  5.0          0.600    .700/1,050         0.800                       10.5         8.0         1.2          0.800       1.70         1.10
Production m ton                              400           24.0
Price m/ton (S/.'000)                          35           65           48/06          48                           35          35          65           65         48           48
Gross Value of Production                                            33,600/6,300
per ha (S/.)                         175,000       39,000       403.2  75.6       38,400       292,300       367,500    280,000       78,000       52,000    81,600        52,800         911,900
Total per farm (S/.'000)              14,000        1,560           478.8          80.64    16,119,440        13,230      16,520       868.8        525.2      816.0        528.0      32,488,000
Oper ating C 6ts
per ha (S0:)
Seeds                                      38,500        1,073         4,800             3,840                     43,500      43,500         700        840      6,240        4,160
Fertilizers                                10,416        7,728         6,720             3,360                     14,448      12,992       9,632      8,400      7,728        5,040
Chemical                                    7,666        2.613                                                      9 832       8614        5,83       8,015      2,782        2,738 
Subtotal             56,582       11,414       11,520              7,200                     67,780      65,106     15,515    17,255       16,750       11,939
Machinery Services                         20,730       14,511        12,438            10,365                     29,022      24,876      20,730    16,584      18,657       12,438
Permanent Labor                            21,250       10,000        10,000            11,250                     22,500      22,500      11,250    10,000      11,250       11,250
Casual Labor                                2,500         -             -                 -                         8,750       5,000       3,750      1,250      3,750         -
Miscellaneous                               4,284        1 389         1.326               988                      5,679       5,146       2,316      1.668      2,319        1,287
Subtotal             48,764       2            23,764            22,603                      65,951      57,522      38,044                35,976       24,975
Grand Total
per ha   (S/.)       105,346       37,314       35,284            29,803       207,747       133,731    122,628      53,561    46,747       52,726       36,913           446,306
per farm (S/.)    8,427,680   1,492,560        423,408            62,586   10,406,234    4,814,316  7,235,052    567,747   472,145    527,260           369,130
12,048,368              1,039,892                 896,390             13,984,650
OperatinR Income
Per ha (S/.)                                                                                         84,553                                                                                    465,594
Per farm (S/.)                                                                                    5,713,206                                                                                 18,503,350
Per farm (US$)                                                                                       25,969                                                                                     84,106
1/ Lupines, beans, vegetables, oca, etc.
December 12, 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I/
Model 4: Cash Flow for ARE-
With Project
Without----------------------------Years    - -8--------1            -                  5-
Project              1               2                3              4    Y          5               6
Inf low                                          ----- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- -------   ---- --- --- - -----S/.    -ooo   -----
--=a es                                          16,119.44        24,719.20       29,317.20        32,446.0        32,446.0       32,446.0        32,446.0        32,446.0       32,446.0
Long-term subloan                                               7,020.0
Subtotal                                      16,119.44        31,739.20       29,317.20        32,446.0       32,446.0        32,446.0        32,446.0        32,446.0       32,446.0
outflow
investment                                                      7,800.0
Operating Costs                               10,406.23        13,984.65       13,984.65        13,984.65      13,984.65       13,984.65       13,984.65       13,984.65      13,984.65
Irrigation Costs (cost recovery and 061)                          983.65          983.65           983.65         983.65          983.65          983.65         983.65          983.65
Subtotal                                      10,406.23        22,786.30       14,968.30        14,968.30      14,968.30       14,968.30       14,968.30      14,968.30       14,968.30
Debt Service
Short-term loan
Interest (31%)
Principal
Long-term loan
Interest (337)                                             1,158.30         2,316.60         2,316.60       2,316.60        1,957.50        1,479.90          844.80
Principal                                                                                                   1,088.10        1,447.20        1,924.80        2,559.90
Subtotal                                      10,406.23       23,926.60        17,284.90        17,284.90      18,375.0        18,375.0        18,375.0       18,375.0        14,968.30
Balance                                           5,713.21         7,812.60       12,032.30        15,161.10      14,071.0        14,071.0        14,071.0        14,071.0       17,477.70
Imputed Return to Member Labor on the ARE         2,243,63        2,582.75         2,582.75        2,582.75        2,582.75       2,582.75        2,582.75        2,582.75        2,582.75
Net Flow                                          7,956.84        10,395.35       14,615.05        17,743.85      16,653.75       16,653.75       16,653.75      16,653.75       20,060.45
tncremental Net Flow                                 .             2,438.51        6,658.31         9,787.01        8,696.91       8,696.91        8,696.91        8,696.91      12,103.61         3
1/  Based on Buena Vista Irrigation System cost recovery and 064 costs.
September 25, 1979



- 96 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 44
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sheep Ranch
Investment Costs
No. of   Unit        Years                         Foreign Exchange
Item                Unit   Units    Cost      1          2      Investment                US$
           S/.1000    -  -  -  -  -  -  _
Turnips                 ha      10.0      24      240.0       -         240.0       70        764
Artificial Pasture      ha       7.5      30!!    -         225.0       225.0       75         767
Alfalfa                 ha       2.5      311/    75.5        -          75.5       75        257
Artificial Pasture      ha       2.5      31       -         75.5        75.5       75        257
Improved Pasture        ha     10.0       15       75.0      75.0       150.0       75        511
Fencing                 km       1.5     230       -        345.0       345.0       50      1,568
Buildings                        0.2     675      135.0      -          135.0       15         92
Fertilizer              ha      12.5       2j2/    -         25.3        25.3       90         104
Water Installations    -         0.2     250.0    50.0       -           50.0       30          68
Electric Fence                            51       51.0      -           51.0       80        185
Physical Contingencies %        10.0      -        67.5     101.2       168.7       59        452
694.0     847.0    1,541.0        59      5,025
1/    Following forage crop previous year.
2/    Maintenance 23 kg  P205 ha.



- 97 -
PERU                                                     ANNEX 2
Table 49
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sheep Ranch
Flock Proiection
With Project 2/
Without       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   year        _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Proiect       1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8        9-20
Flock Composition
Rams                         35          24        15        1S        15        16        16        16        16        16
Ewes                       500         493       500       505       526       547       550       550       550       550
Lambs                      300         315       335        353      384       422       430       430       430       430
Ewe Hoggets                120         120       135       144       153       169       186       190       190       190
Ram Hoggets                 80           80        80        80        80        80        80        80        80        80
Wether Hoggets              40           40        54        64        74        89      106       110       110       110
Wether 4th                  35           35        33        49       50        50         50       48        48         48
Cull Ewes                   50          48         42        50       60         63        91       99        99         99
TOTAL              1,160        1,154    1,194    1,260    1,342    1,436    1,509    1,523    1,523    1,523
Sheep Units3/         860         839       859       907       958    1,014    1,079    1,093    1,093    1,093
Mortality
Rams                         2            2      -         -            1         1         1        1          1         1
Ewes                        56          42        41         34       37        40        40        40        40        40
Lambs                       60          46        47        46        46        50        50        50        50        50
Ewe Hoggets                 10          16        11        12        10        10        10        10        10        10
Ramn  oggets                 6            4         3         2         2         2         2         2         2         2
Wether Hoggets               4            7         5         4         4         5         4        4          4         4
Wether 4th                    1           1         2         1         1         1         1         1         1         1
Cull Ewes                    2            2         2         2         1         1         1         1         1         1
TOTAL                 141         120       111       101       102       110       109       109       109       109
Sales
Cull Rans                    8(14;-       7         1         1         4         4         4        4         4         4(15.5)5/
Rams4/                      20          26         25       24        26        26         26       26        26        26
Cull Ewe Hoggets            12(9)         6         7         7       12        14         25       28        28        28(10)
Cull Ewes                   50(10)      52         49       58        69        82       102       111       111       111(11.5)
HoggetalWethers             89(11)       84        84       110      115        120      150       152       152       152(12)
TOTAL                 179         175       176       200       226       247       307       3         321       321
Technical Coefficients
% Births                     60          65        67        70        73        76        78        78        78        78
% Mortality - Adults          9           9         7         6         6         6         5         5         5         5
7. Mortality - Lambs         20          15        14        13        12        12        12        12        12        12
% Rams                        7           5         3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3
% Cull Ewes                  10          10         8        10        12        12        16        18        18        18
% Cull Ewe Hoggets           5            5         5         5         5         5        10       10        10        10
% Cull Rams                 20           25        25        25        25        25        25        25        25        25
Stocking Rate  AU/Ha         2.1          2.1       2.1       2.3       2.4       2.5       2.7      2.7        2.7       2.7
Carrying Capacityl'        860         860       880    1,000    1,050    1,080    1,090    1,093    1,093    1,093
Extraction 7                14          14         13       15        15        16         18       19        19        19
Total Shorn                759          739       770      828       876       928       994    1,008    1,008    1,008
Average Wool Yield (Kgs.)  1.20           1.25      1.30      1.33      1.40      1.45      1.50      1.50      1.50      1.50
Production
Wool (ton)                .911        .924    1.001    1.118    1.226    1.345    1.491    1.512    1.512    1.512
Meat (tons carcass)    1.699         1.630    1.553    1.982    2.295    2.575    2.285    3.442    3.442    3.442
Rams (tons carcass_/    .280          .364      .350      .336      .364      .364      .364      .364      .364      .364
equiv.)
1/  Without Project:  380 ha natural Pasture.
2/  With Project:       357.5 ha natural Pasture, 10 ha artificial pasture, 2.5 ha alfalfa and
10.0 ha improved Pasture.
3/  L/Wgt:  initial 26.5 kgs,  final 27.5 kgs.
4/  Production estimated in meat (14 kg /carcass).  Market value of rams 5/.14,000.
5/ Carcass weight per AU in parenthesis.
December 12, 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sheep Ranch
Sales and Operating Costs
With Project
Unit          Without   - - - - - - - - - - - - -                        Year - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Price         Project          1          2           3            4           5            6            7           8         9-20
(S/.)                      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -     -   _    -     -  Si.     OOO
SALES
Wool                                 320/Kg.    291.5         295.7     320.3        357.7       392.3        430.4       477.1        483.8        483.8       483.8
Skins                                260/Ea        21.0        19.2      16.6         14.3        14.5         15.6        15.3         15.3         15.3        15.3
Slaughter Animals                    200/Kg       339.8       326.0    310.6         396.4       459.1        515.7       657.0        688.5        688.5       688.5
Breeding Animals                  14,000/ Ea     280.0        364.0    350.0         336.0       364.0        364.0       364.0        364.0        364.0       364.0
TOTAL                                       932.3      ,004.9    997.5       1,104.4    1,229.9    1,325.1        1,513.4    1,51,551.6
OPERATING COSTS                                                                                                                                                             @
Animal Health                         81/ AU       69.6        67.3      68.9         73.5         77.6        82.1         87.4        88.5         88.5        88.5   '>
Minerals                               5/AU         3.9         3.9        4.0         4.2          4.4         4.7          5.1         5.1          5.1          5.1
Shearing/Crutching                     8t ea.       5.9         5.7       5.9          6.2          6.5         6.8          7.1         7.2          7.2          7.2
Fertilizer                         2,025' lb        -           -          -          45.5         45.5        45.5         45.5        45.5         45.5         45.5
Irrigation Costs                  17,545/ ha        -           -         -           43.8        43.8         43.8        43.8         43.8         43.8        43.8
Permanent Labor                   56,880' Yr     163.4        163.4    163.4         172.3       182.0        192.6       205.0        207.7        207.7       207.7
Social Benefits                     53.7 7,        87.7        87.7      87.7         92.5        97.7        103.4       110.0        111.5        111.5       111.5
Repairs and Maintenance                            45.8        45.8      58.2         92.1        92.1         92.1        92.1         92.1         92.1        92.1
TOTAL                                       376.3       373.8    388.1         530.1        549.6       571.0        596.0       601.4        601.4        601.4
Net Operating Income                                556.0       631.1    609.4         573.3       680.3        754.1        917.4       950.2        950.2       950.2
Incremental Operating Income                          -          75.1      53.4         17.3       124.3        198.1       361.4        394.2        394.2       394.2
December 12, 1979



- 99 -
ANNEX 2
PERU                                                       Table 47
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sheep Ranch
Producer's Cash Flow
With Project
Without    - - - - - - - - -                                     Ye6r - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - -
Item                     Project       1           2           3           4           5           6            7           8           9           10
Cash Inflow
Sales                       932.3      1,004.9       997.5    1,104.4    1,229.9    1,325.1    1,513.4    1,551.6    1,551.6    1,551.6    1,551.6
Long-term  loan                          624.6        762.3
Subtotal                          1,629.5    1759.        1,104.4    1,229.9    1,325.1    1,513.4    1,551.6    1,551.6    1,551.6    1,551.6
Cash Outflow
Investments                              694.0       847.0
Operating Costs             376.3        373.8       388.1        530.1       549.6       571.0       596.0       601.4       601.4       601.4       601.4
Debt Service
Long-term loan
Interest                               103.1       331.9       457.7       457.7        457.7       457.7       386.7       292.4       166.8
Principal                                                                                           214.9       285.9       380.2       505.8
Balance                       556.0        458.6        192.8       116.6       222.6       296.4       244.8       277.6       277.6        277.6      950.2
Imputed Return to Family    163.4          163.4       163.4       172.3        182.0       192.6       205.0       207.7       207.7       207.7       207.7
Labor
Net Flow                      719.4         622.0       356.2       288.9       404.6       488.0       449.8       485.3        485.3       485.3    1,157.9
Deflated net floal                         635.2       466.8       480.5       630.0       743.2       862.7       931.4       960.7        986.3
I/ All costs and prices in the models are those prevailing at the time of appraisal (May 1979). The nominal debt service in the sheep, cattle
and alpaca models, based on the 337. long term sublending rate of BAP, was adjusted on the basis of an expected 407/. inflation rate in 1980,
25% in 1981 and 15% thereafter.
The specific deflators applied to nominal debt service charges are the following:
Year          Deflator
1             1.20
2             1.50
3             1.72
4             1.97
5             2.26
6             2.59
7             2.97
8             3.41
9             3.92
10             4.50
October 16, 1979



- 1on -                               ANNEX 2
Table 48
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Ranch
Investment Costs
No. of   Unit          Years                           Foreign Exchange
Item             Units   Units    Cost         1         2        Investment      %          US$
-   -   -   -_ - -  S/.000  -   -   -   -   -
Turnips                ha        50       24     1,200       -           1,200        70          3,818
Improved Pasture       ha        50      15        750       -             750        75          2,557
Artificial Pasture   ha          16       30       -         480           480        75          1,636
Alfalfa                ha        50       31       -       1,550         1,550        75          5,284
Fertilizer             ha                  2       -         101           101        90            413
Buildings - Dairy    No.         .5     370        185       -             185        15            126
Equipment              -          1      50         25        25            50        50            114
Fencing                km       1.2     230        -         276           276        50            627
Electric Fence        No.       1        51         51       -              51        80            185
Water Installations  -          1       250         150      100           250        30            341
Yards                 No.        .5     182          91      -              91        10             41
Animal Health          AU       379    0.21       81.1      81.1           162.2      50            367
Minerals               AU       110    0.21       23.5      23.5            47        50            107
Physical Contingencies (10X)                     256.4    263.4            519.8      66          1,599
TOTAL                                    2,813    2,900            5,713        66         17,215
July 25, 1979



_ 101 -
PERU                                                        ANNEX 2
Table 49
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Herd Projection
With Project
Withoutl/   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   YearV                - -  - - - - - -  - -  - - - - - -e-
Item                                    Project       1        2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9       10-20
HERD COMPOSITION
Bulls                                        4           4        4        4        4       4        4        4        4        4        4
Cows                                       100        100      100      100      100      100      100      100      100      100      100
Calves                                      68          68       70       72       74       76       78      80       80       80       80
Weaners                                     64          64       66       68       70       72       74       76      76       76       76
Heifers - 1 Yr                              29          29       30       31       32       32       33      34       34       34       34
Heifers - 2 Yrs                             28          28       28       29       30       31       31       33      33       33       33
Heifers - 3 Yrs                             27          27       27       28       28       29      30       30       32       32       32
Bulls   - 1 Yr                              29          29      30        31      31       33       34       35       35       35       35
Bulls   - 2 Yrs                             28          28       28       29       30      30       33       33       34       34       34
Bulls   - 3 Yrs                             27          27      27       28       28       29       29       33       32       33       33
TOTAL                                 336        336      338      348      353      360      368       78      W        3981    38
AU 3/                                 214        214      214      218      220      223      227      233      235      236     236
MORTALITY
Cows                                         5           5        5        4        4       4        4        4        4        4        4
Calves                                       4           4        4        4        4        4       4        4        4        4        4
Weaners                                      6           6        6        6        7        7        7        7        7       7        7
Heifers - I Yr                               1           1        1        1        1        1       1        -        1        1        1
Heifers - 2 Yrs                               1          1        1        -        1       1        1        1        1        1        1
Heifers - 3 Yrs                              -           1        1        -        -       -        1        1        1        1        1
Bulls   - 1 Yr                               1           1        1        1        1       1        -        1        -        -        -
Bulls   - 2 Yrs                              1           1        1       -        1        1        1        1        1        1        1
Bulls   - 3 Yrs                              1           -       -        1        -        -        -        -        -        -       -
TOTAL                                  20         20       20       17       19       19       19       19       19      19       19
SALES
Cull Cows                                   21(90)     21       21       22       22       21       21       21       21       21       21(108)_/
Cull Heifers                                 1(85)       -        -        2       -        1        2        1        2        2        2(100)
Cull Bulls                                   1(110)      1        1        1       1        1        1        1        1        1        1(132)
Breeding Heifers                             -          -        -        -        2        2        2        3        4        4        4
Bulls/Steers                                25(110)   26        26       28       28       29       28       33       32       33       33(132)
47         48       4         3       53       5         4        9      603
PURCHASES
Bulls                                        -           1        1        1       1        1        1        1        1        1        1
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
% Mortality                                 68          68       70       72       74       76       78      80       80       80       80
% Mortality - Calves                          6          6        6        6        6        6        5       5        5        5        5
% Mortality - Weaners                       10          10       10       10      10       10        9        9        9        9        9
% Mortality - Adults                          5          5        5        4        3        3        3       3        3        3        3
Cow Culling Rate                            21          21      21       22       22       21       21       21       21       21       21
Bull                                        25         25       25       25       25       25       25       25       25       25       25
7O Cows Milked                              64          64       65       67       70       73      75       76       77       77       77
Days Lactation                              90        110      140      150      200      210      215      220      225      225      225
Average Production                         100        160      280      380      430      470      495      520      535      540      540
Carrying Capacity AU3/                     200        230      260      300      320      347      347      347      347      347      347
PRODUCTION
Milk                                          3.672      6.963  12.740  18.331  2Z.274  26.075  28.957  31.616  32.956  33.264  33.264
Carcass (1,000 kg )                          4.835       4.860   5.058   5.712   2.704   6.164   6.195   6.856   6.824   6.956   6.956
Heifers - Carcass (1,000 kg  equiv.)         -           -        -        -         .198    .204    .204    .315    .420    .420    .420
1/  Without Project:   700 ha natural Pasture.
2/  With Project:       584 ha natural pasture; 50 ha improved Pasture; 50 ha alfalfa; 16 ha artificial Pasture and
50 ha turnips (lst year only).
3/ Initially 210 kg; finally 220 kg.
4/ Carcass weights in kg.



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Ranch
Sales and Operating Costs
With Project
Without    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    yearA  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _
Unit Price    Project          1            2          3            4           5             6            7           8            9         10-20
(SI.) _--_ -S/. o000  -------
SALES
Carcass 1/                           180/kg       870.3        874.8       910.4    1,027.8       1,062.9      1,114.2     1,152.9      1,290.8     1,303.9      1,327.6      1,327.6
Milk                                  45/s         165.2       313.3       573.3        824.9    1,002.3    1,173.3        1,303.0      1,422.7     1,483.0      1,496.9      1,496.9
Grazing Fees                       2,400/AU         -           38.4         84.4       166.4       240.0        297.6        288.0       273.6        268.6       266.4        266.4
1,035.5     14           1,568.1      2,1.        2,305.2     2,585.1     2,743.9      2,987.1      3,55        3,090.9      3,090.9
OPERATING COSTS
Animal Health                        379/AU         81.1                                 82.6         83.4        84.5         86.3        88.3         89.1        89.4         89.4
Minerals                             110/AU         23.5                                 23.9         24.2        24.5         24.9        25.6         25.8         25.9        25.9
Permanent Labor                  56,880/yr        284.4        341.3       341.3        398.2        455.0       511.9       568.8        568.8       568.8        568.8        568.8
Fertilizer                         2,025/ha         -           -            -          234.8         234.8      234.8       234.8        234.8        234.8       234.8        234.8
Casual Labor                         250/day        47.5        47.5        47.5         47.5          50.0       55.0        60.0         60.0         60.0        60.0         60.0
Social Benefits 3/                  53.7 %        152.7        183.2       183.2        213.8         244.3      274.9       305.4        305.4        305.4       305.4        305.4
Repairs and Maintenance 4/           5.0%           27.0        27.0         57.0        81.1          81.1       81.1         81.1        81.1         81.1        81.1         81.1
Fodder Conservation                1,400/ ha        -           14.0         42.0        56.0          56.0       63.0         70.0        70.0         70.0         70.0        70.0
615.2       613.0       671.0    1,137.9        1,226.8   1,329.7    1,431.3         1,434.0     1,435.0      1,435.4      1,435.4
Net Operating Income                                 420.3       633.5        897.1       881.2      1,076.4   1,255.4    1,312.6         1,553.1      1,620.5     1,655.5      1,655.5
Incremental Operating Income                          -          213.2       476.8        460.9         656.9      835.1       892.3      1,132.8     1,200.2      1,235.2      1,235.2
1/ Includes breeding heifers as equivalent carcass.
2/ Increased capacity leased.
3/ On permanent labor only.
4/  57 on existing and new installations (1,083,000).                                                                                                                              H
a, 3
July 30, 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Ranch
Producer's Cash Flow
With Project
Without    - - - - - - - - - - - - -                            Years       - _
Item                       Project       -1           2           3           4           5           6           7           8           9           10           11
-e -oe - - - - ------S/.'000  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - -
Cash Inflow
Sales                         1,035.5    1,246.5    1,568.1    2,019.1    2,305.2    2,585.1    2,743.9    2,987.1    3,055.5    3,090.9    3,090.9    3,090.9
Long-term subloan            2_531.7    2,610.0
Subtotal                            3,778.2    4,178.1    2,019.1    2,305.2    2,585.1    2,743.9    2,987.1    3,055.5    3,090.9    3,090.9    3,090.9
Cash Outflow
Investment                                2,813.0    2,900.0
Operating Costs                 615.2       613.0       671.0    1,137.9    1,226.8    1,329.7    1,431.3    1,434.0    1,435.0    1,435.4    1,435.4    1,435.4
Debt Service
Long-term Subloan
Interest                                  417.7    1,266.1    1,696.8    1,696.8    1,696.8    1,696.8    1,519.7    1,284.1              970.8       554.1
Amortization                                                                                          536.7       713.8       949.3    1,262.6    1,679.3
Subtotal                        615.2    3,843.7    4,837.1    2,834.7    2,923.6    3,026.5    3,664.7    3,667.4    3,668.4    3,668.8    3,668.8    1,435.4
Balance                           420.3   (   65.5)  (  659.0)  (  815.6)  (  618.4)  (  441L4)  (  920.8)  (  680.3)  (  612.9)  (  577.9)  (  577.9)   1,655.5
Imputed Return to Family Labor  284.4         341.3       341.3       398.2       455.0       511.9       568.8       568.8       568.8        568.8       568.8       568.8
Net Flow                           704.7      275.8   (  317.7)  (  417.4)  (  163.4)  (   70.5)  (  352.0)  (  111.5)  (   44.1)  (    9.1)  (    9.1)   2,224.3
Deflated Net Flow 1/                          345.4       104.3       292.9       672.1    1,016.5    1,019.1    1,370.0    1,534.4    1,654.6    1,654.6    2,224.3               |
1J  As per footnote in Annex 2, Table 47.
July 31, 19790



- 104 -
ANNEX 2
Table 52
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Alpaca Herd
Investment Costs
Foreign
Year                         Exchange
Item                  Unit      No.      Cost        1        2      Investment   %    Total
US $
- - - - - -   (S/.'000)        
Breeding males            No.      100           8        800     -            800      5      180
Fencing                   km        10         230       -      2,300        2,300    50    5,227
Dip                       No.        1         320        200     120          320    85    1,236
Corral                    No.        1         300        300     -            300    10       136
Shed                      No.        1         360       360      -            360    15       245
Scale and Balance         No.        2          45         90     -             90    85       348
Fertilizer                ha        90           2         -      180          180    90       736
Identification Tags       1,000's   5            6         30     -             30    85       114
Veterinary Equipment       -         -          30         30     -             30    85       114
Fiber Press               No.         .4       460        184     -            184    40       335
Pick-up                   No.        1       1,800        -     1,800        1,800    80    6,545
Improved Pasture          ha       100          15       750      750        1,500    75    5,114
Artificial Pasture        ha        58          30      1,200     540        1,740    75    5,932
Shearing Equipment        No.       50           1         50     -             50    85       193
Sanitation                AU       410.0         1.27    520      520        1,040    60    2,836
Physical Contingencies   %          10                    476     620        1,096    61    3,030
TOTAL                                             4,990   6,830       11,820    60   32,321
July 25, 1979



- 105 -
ANNEX 2
PERU                                            TIabe 53
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Alaca Herd
Herd Projection
With Project
Without                                       Years    _
Project         1         2        3         4        5         6        7     8-20
HERD COMPOSITION
Breeding Males                  375          347      355       349      249      250       250      250       250
Males (Capones)                 800          950      680       390      280       200      200      200       200
Breeding Females              2,000        2,105    2,104    2,087    2,196    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200
Males   1-2 yrs.                475          356      414       510      572       640      677      677       677
Females 1-2 yrs.                450          356      413       519      572      640       677      677       677
Male Tuis                       450          526      620       678      755       792      792      792       792
Female Tuis                     450          526      620       678      755      792       792      792       792
TOTAL                    5,000       5,166    5,206    5,201    5379    5                     5,588    5,588
AU                       4,100       4,114    3,966    3,855    3,869    3,930    4,004    4,004    4,004
MORTALITY
Tuis                            234          188      225       211      212      230       230      230       230
Adult                           238          259      235      230       230      233       233      233      233
TOTAL                      472         447       460      451       442      463       463      463      463
SALES
Cull Males                       17           47      100       300      220      120       120      120      120
Male Adult                      147          2e0      400       300      300      280       200      200       200
Cull Females                    200          200      244      230       220      247       247      247      247
Males   1-2 yrs.                 19           47       38        40      110      171       240      277       277
Females 1-2 yrs.                 45           45       38       40        50      168       240      277      277
TOTAL                      428         539       820      910       900      986    1.047    1,121    1,121
PURCHASES - MALES                 -            100       -         -        -         -       -        -         -
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Reproductive Rate (X)            50           50       59       65        70       72        72       72       72
X Mortality - Tuis               26           18       18        17       16       15        15       15       15
X Mortality - Adult               6            6        6         6        6        6         6        6        6
X Extraction                     10           11       20       23        23       25        26       28       28
2 Breeding Males                 19           16       17        17       11       11        11       11       11
Carrying Capacityl/           4,000        4,000    4,000    4,006    4,007    4,008    4,012    4,016    4,016
Adult L/wgt (kg)                 63           63       63       64        66       67        68       68       68
Fiber Yield (kg)                1.2          1.3      1.4       1.5      1.6      1.7       1.7      1.7      1.7
1/  Effected by liveweight increases from 63 kg to 68 kg.



- 106 -
ANNEX 2
Table 54
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Alpaca Herd
Sales and Operating Costs
1Jith, Protect
Unit       Without       - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Year  -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Price      Project         1        2         3         4         5         6         7     8-20
(S/.)      - - - - _       -        -  -  -  -   -   S/.'.000
SALES
Fiber                              1,590/kg     7,822       8,503    8,828    9,194    9,842   10,622   10,622   10,822   10,822
Adult Skins                          300/ea         71          77       70        69        69        70        70       70        70
Tui Skins                            600/ea        140         113      135       126       127       138       138      138       138
Adult - Carcass                      150/kg     1,283       1,575    2,678    3,050    2,775    2,474    2,211    2,211    2,211
2 Yr. - Breeding                  4,000/ea         256         368      304       320       640    1,396    1,920    2,216    2,216
TOTAL                                      9,572      10,636   12,015   12,759   13,453   14,700   14,961   15,457   15,457
OPERATING ODSTS
Animal health                        127/AU        260        -         -         489       491       499      508       508       508
Permanent labor                      1/  yr     2,382       2,382    2,382    2,382    2,382    2,382    2,382    2,382    2,382
Fertilizer2/                      2,025 ha        -           -         -         137       160       160       160      160       160
Social Benefits                    53.7 %       1,279       1,279    1,279    1,279    1,279    1,279    1,279    1,279    1,279
Fiber Bales                                         29         32        33        34        36        39       39        39        39
Transport                                          100        233       233       233       233      233       233       233       233
Repairs and maintenance_/           5.0 %          100        100       160       272       272      272       272       272       272
Administration - General            -              110        220       220       220       220      220       220       220       220
TOTAL                                      4,260       4,246    4,307    5,046    5,073    5,084    5,093    5,093    5,093
Net Operating Income                               5,312      6,390    7,708    7,713    8,380    9,616    9,868   10,364   10,364
Incremental Operating Income                        -         1,078    2,396    2,401    3,068    4,304    4,556    5,052    5,052
I/ Manager, S/.540,000; Bookkeeper, S/.220,000; Foreman, S/.200,000; 25 Laborers, S/.56,880.
2/  50/ pastures each year.
3/ 5% of new installations and original (S/.3,450,000 + S/.2,000,000).
July 25, 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Alpaca Herd
Producer's Cash Flow
witn eroject
Without    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    Years   - - - - - -                       . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   __
Iten                        Project       1            2           3            4           5            6            7           8            9           10
-________________---                    _--    -   S/.t000    --_______________________                                     -  -___-
Cash Inflow
Sales                         9,572.0    10,636.0    12,015.0    12,759.0    13,453.0    14,700.0    14,961.0    15,457.0    15,457.0    15,457.0   15,475.0
Long-term subloan                         4,491.0      6,147.0
Subtotal                 9,572.0    15,127.0    18,162.0    12,759.0    13,453.0    14,700.0    14,961.0    15,457.0    15,457.0    15,457.0   15,457.0
Cash Outflow
Investment                                4,990        6,830
Operating costs               4,260.0     4,246        4,307       5,046        5,073        5,084       5,093        5,093        5,093       5,093       5,093
Debt Service
Long-term subloan
Interest                                  741.1     1,755.3      3,510.5      3,510.5     3,510.5      3,144.1      2,656.7     2,008.6      1,146.5           o
Amortization                                                                              1,110.3      1,476.8      1,964.1      2,612.3     3,474.4
Subtotal               4,260.0     9,977.1    12,892.3      8,556.5      8,583.5      9,704.9     9,713.9      9,713.9      9,713.9     9,713.9   5,093
Imputed Return to Family Labor 2,382.0      2,382.0      2,382.0     2,382.0      2,382.0     2,382.0      2,382.0      2,382.0     2,382.0      2,382.0   2,382
Net Flow                        7,694.0.   7,531.9       7,651        6,584.5     7,251.5      7,377.1     7,629.1      8,125.1      8,125.1     8,125.1  12,746
Deflated Net Flowl/                          7,655.4     8,236.1      8,054       8,980        9,953.4    10,465.9    11,190.1    11,390.9    11,567.2  12,746
As per footnote 1, Annex 2, Table 47.
July 31, 1979.



- 108 -
ANNEX 2
Table 56
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPFENT PROJECT
Prices Used in Economic and Financial Analysis
- - - - - - - - - - - - -   Economic  - - - - - - - -
Item                   Unit        Financial         1979        1980          1981       1982-84      1985
Potatoes             Soles/m ton      35,000       35,000          -           -            -          35,000
Quinua-/                  "           65,000       65,000       74,100       76,050       78,585       81,575
Cafiihua                  "           45,000       45,000         -            _            -          45,000
Barley grain_/            "           48,000       48,000       57,840       60.000       61,104       63,312
Barley straw              "            6,000        6,000         -            -            -           6,000
Lupins                    "           48,000       48,000         -            -            -          48,000
Woo03                     "          320,000      392,000      455,896      468,048      481,768      490,000
Alpaca fiberA/            "        1,590,000   2,257,800   2,625,821   2,695,813   2,774,836   2,822,250
Beef (carcass)5/          "          180,000      270,000      249,210      235,440      221,940      244,890
Lamb (carcass)T/          "          200,000      363,200      335,234      316,710      298,550      329,422
Alpaca meat (carcass)   "            150,000      150,000         -            -            -         150,000
Milk                 Soles/'000Q      45,000       45,000         -            -            -          45,000
Poultry (live)       Soles/'000      400,000         -                                      -         400,000
Eggs               -                  16,000       16,000         -            -            -          16,000
Guinea pigs (live)    "              400,000      400,000         -            -            -         400,000
1/  Economic price indexed according to EPD Department's wheat price projection (Commodity Price Forecasts,
May 1979, Table 3).
2/  Economic price indexed according to EPD Department's sorghum price projection (ibid.).
3/ Economic price includes adjustment for 22.5% export tax on greasy fiber and is indexed according to EPD
Department's projection of cotton prices (ibid.).
4/  Economic price includes adjustment for 42% export tax on unwashed fiber and is indexed as wool.
5/ Economic price includes upward adjustment of 50% to correct for influence of Government price and marketing
controls and indexed according to EPD Department's beef price projection (op. cit.).
6/ Economic price includes upward adjustment of 60% to typical relation with beef prices and is indexed according
to EPD beef price projection (ibid.).
September 5, 1979



-109-                                                         ANNEX 2
Table 57
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery in Irrigation Subprojects
Huata-Quita                                           Small-Scale
1/                                                         and                                 Buena             Pump
Itemr-                                                     Cabanillas          Taraco              Vista            Systems
-SI_________--_------------SI. '000
1. Gross Value of Production                               1,392,178.0      1,298,842.5           499,894.3        329,516.7
2. Less Production Cost                                      398,862.6         491,984.0          116,529.5        153,580.5
3. Equals Net Value of Production                            993,315.4        806,858.5           383,364.8        175,936.2
4. Less: Credit Debt Service                                   36,489.5         36,489.5           11,062.5         16,762.0
5.        Imputed Value of Management Services-/              69,608.9          64,942.2           24,994.7          9,885.5
6.       Imputed Return on Own Capital-/                      41,765.3          38,965.3           14,996.8         16,475.8
7.       Allowance for Risk and Uncertainty-/                139,217.8        129,884.3            49,989.4         32,951.7
8. Equals Rent/Surplus                                       706,233.9         536,577.2          282,326.4        100,081.2
9. Rent as a Percentage of Net Value of Production (8-3)           717.             66%                74%               57%
10. Project Changes
(a) Operation and Maintenance                           42,201.1        147,758.2           33,550.6          40,658.7
(b) Cost Recovery5-/                                    57,478.5         42,937.8           23,309.3           5,429.5
11. Rent Recovery Index (1048)                                      14%              357.               207.              46'
12. Public Sector Outlays
(a) Main Irrigation Works                             250,618.6         189,987.0          129,536.0          48,617.8
(b) Operation and Maintenance                           57,478.5        147,758.2           33,550.6          40,658.7
13. Cost Recovery Index (10-12)                                     327              56%                 37X              52%
14. Farm Family Income at Full Developmentb'                       216.0            183.2                 9/              10/
15. Estimated Critical Consumption Level2!                         158.4            158.4
16. Estimated GDP per Family in 1986-                              741.8            741.8
1/  Items 1 through 13 are in constant 1919 prices ana represent incremental values discounted at 107. over a 50 year period.-
2/ Calculated as 57. of GVP (No. 1).
3/ Calculated as 3'. of GVP.
4/ Calculated as 107. of GVP.
5/ Assuming investment cost amortization over 50 years without interest.
6/  Only on the crops grown on irrigated land,  omitting          additional family income from rainfed lands and minor species.
7/  Corresponding to an estimated absolute rural poverty level of US$180 per capita, multiplied by average family size of 4.
8/ Corresponds to per capita GDP of US$843 in 1986.
9/ Not applicable, as this is only part of a large ARE (SAIS) with some 717 direct members and 1,621 associated families in
surrounding communities.
10/  No estimate  available of probable number of families involved.
September 28, 1979



PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flows of Incremental Economic Benefits and Costs
Year
Item                          1             2             3             4      _                                                                   9                            11-25
Benefits
Crop production                          93,522.8    293,930.9    573,240.8   863,854.6   1,038,572,3   1,100,422.7   1,100.422.7   1,100,422.7   1,100,422.7   1,100,422.7   1,100,422.7
Livestock production                     18,603.7      65,027.9    152,759.3   266,958.7         410,387.5      533,790.9      633,170.9       656,550.7      767,862.0       784,277.6      784,627.7
Costs
Irrigation investment                   195,513.8    200,373.8    217,177.4   175,265.2             -              -               -              -              -               -
On-farm investment                      135,204.0    254,581.0    357,087.0   315,248.0             -              -               -              .               -              -
Farm operating costs                    150,866.7    208,417.3    262,788.5   381,138.6          410,023.1      416,510.0      421,214.9       424,361.6      424,817.2       424,820.0      424,823.2
Irrigation system 0&M                      -              836.0       4,078.8       8,223.6       12,365.1       12,365.1       12,365.1        12,365.1       12,365.1        12,365.1       12,365.1
Project unit                            272,613.4    227,535.4    200,937.0   181,313.0          113,083.3      113,083.3      113,083.3       113,083.3       67,850          67,850         67,850
Forestry program                         27,507.9      47,707.7       38,407.6    24,783.2         3,745.0         3,745.0        3,745.0        3,745.0         3,745.0        3,745.0        3,745.0
Research program                        120,995.6      54,842.5       14,573.0      4,802.6        4,653.7        4,653.7.        4,653.7        4,653.7         4,653.7        4,653.7        4,653.7
Roads program                           158,268.0      84,634.0       85,294.0    80,985.0        80,985.0       80,985.0        80,985.0       80,985.0        80,985.0       80,985.0       80,985.0
Health posts, potable water and
vocational educational invest.         89,168.4    111,798.3       71,355.2    45,788.4           -              -              -               -              -               -
Shadow wage rate adjustment              -6,207.8    -15,563.3    -26,656.5   -36,175.4          -36,952.0      -37,783.4      -38,518.7       -39,005.2      -39,070.0       -39,070.0      -39,070.0
Net Incremental Benefits              -1,031,803.5   -816,203.9   -499,041.9   -50,558.9           861,056.6   1,040,654.9   1,136,065.3   1,156,784.9   1,312,938.7   1,329,351.5   1,329,698.4
October 1979



- 111 -                                 ANNEX 2
Table 59
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Tests
A. Summary Economic Characteristics
Discount     Net Present           NPV as %              Economic
Rate       Value (NPV)       of Present Costs      Rate of Return
(S/. '000)
12%          3,845,365              58.4                  27.2
B. Switching Value Percentage Changes for Major Benefit and Cost Streams-/
Item                                                 Percentage Change
Incremental Crop Output                                    -58.9%
Incremental Livestock Output                              -105.3%
Irrigation Investment                                     +640.6%
On-farm Investment                                        +494.1%
Farm Operating Costs                                      +139.5%
C. Sensitivity Analysis
Economic
Assumption                                            Rate of Return
Best Estimate                                                27.2%
Incremental Project Output Lagged One Year                   20.5%
Incremental Project Output Reduced 10%                       23.4%
Incremental Project Output Reduced 20%                       19.4%
Irrigation and On-Farm Investment Cost Increased 10%         26.1%
Irrigation and On-Farm Investment Cost Increased 20%         25.1%
Incremental Farm Production Costs and Irrigation             26.0%
O and M Costs Increased 10%
Incremental Farm Production Costs and Irrigation
O and M Costs Increased 20%                               24.8%
Incremental Project Output Lagged One Year,
and all investment and operating costs
increased by 10%                                           17.9%
I/ The percentage change in the respective benefit or cost flow which would
result in the project's economic rate of return becoming equal to 12%.



- 112 -
Chart 1
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of ORDEPUNO
|Office Executive|
|Control f
Office of Regional Planning
Gener         Public        Worksal 
Administrat      Rlations vlEaluation
(Regional and Zonal
Directorates)



- 113 -                                                  CHART 2
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule for Principal Project Components
Calendar Year
Item                                  Unit               Quantity   -1980          1981      1982-        1983      1  1984
Irrigation
Huata Quita                         ha                   600                    200        300          450          600
Cabanillas                          ha                 1,000          _      __ 300  __ 500__          700   _   1.000
Taraco                              ha                 1,600            -       6.Q_       800        1.200        1.600
Buena Vista                         ha                   400                                            100          400
Small-Sgals                         ha                   500                     50        200          359          500
Equipment                         Global
Farm Credit                       Value Subloan          S/6.4M             5%      13%         27%          34%         21%
Proj ect Unit
Recruiting and Training           Staff                   60         60
Facilities and Equipment         Global
Extension Program              No. Participants       17,000                 3.000       8.000       12.000       17.000
Nutrition Program              No. Families            6,000                   500       2.000        4,000        6 000
Forestry Program
Nursery                             No.                    1 I
Plantations                         ha                 1,500                       _       500        1,000        1,500
Research Program
Investment                     No. Stations                3                     3
Operation                      No. Stations                3                     2           3            3            3
Roads PrQgram
Equipment                        Global
Operation                           km                   515           -       100         220  I       360_|__  515
Post Offices                        No.                    6                     2          24_           6 _
Social Infrastructure
Health Centers                      No.                   13                     4           8           13
Health Posts                        No.                    4                     2           4
Lampa Hospital                      No.                    1
Potable Water Supply                No.                   46                    10          24           38           46
Vocational Education
Centers                            No.                   23                     7          15           3
Second Phase Studies
Base Studies                     Global
Project Preparation              Global
December 4, 1979



- 114 -
Chart 3
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Unit Organization
[ORDEPUNO|
Office of
Project
Director
Office cof                   |Cr op and Livestock|
P-roject                    EExtension Office  |
ISupervision._                           _ 
Juliaca    L         Santa Lucia
Agency     Agency      Agency
ARE             Rural Enterprise      Nutrition
Development         Staff             Program
Staff                                 Staff



- 115 -
ANNEX 3
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project Files
Proyecto de Desarrollo Rural en el Departamento de Puno: Summary Report
and Annexes (in Spanish) -- Ministerio de Agricultura y Alimentacion,
Julio 1978.
Sierra Rural Development Project Within the Puno Department: Identification
Report--FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, 5 August 1977.
Juliaca Micro-Region Integrated Rural Development Project: Nutrition
Ccmponent, J. Pines, September 1979.
Puno Rural Development Project: Appraisal of the Health Component,
Dr. Oscar Echeverri, July 1979.
Puno Rural Development Project: Working Paper - Irrigation Subprojects,
A. Kogan, September 1979.
Puno Rural Development Project: Working Paper - Potable Water and Sanitary
Facilities, A. Kogan, September 1979.
Puno Rural Development Project: Working Paper - Improvement of Roads and
Communications, A. Kogan, October 1979.
Puno Rural Development Project: Working Paper - Second Phase Studies,
October 1979.
Terms of Reference for Internationally Recruited Consultants to the
Project Unit






______ _____ ______ _____ ______ _____ ______ _____IBRD8            14684
C _  __ _ 5s - 91                -      ,,                                               NAon,           m,arN5Q'   4&                           tN55wr.~F  As2r;5\                        /                                                    NN9EM45ER 1977
02, ,9Xr Areelv  I   gX    /;    +    & e  P  ~ w   \  1\tP E R U
- ^120                                                                                               9) /   \  PChocaros,   X    M                         PUNO  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(                                                                          V\                                              <Lor                                                                  10 o0
|     l          C)Cou;m~~~- --, ych    \- / CsdaN                                     Soros:rooo    -                       t\ ),oo              iert9 n .,                        019_
CU Z Co 
0Hotajn                             V i  ne/bNz; to                                                                                                                                        D) ~    / <a
I  \\N   fi (z-r'  SX                                < \  w0 \  &X%i   m                                                                      ,   X\>H  _,>a'S -_\~~N cd-
| >+ ' Callpacha9u, , 1 0   /   t     V        /        1 1 v a n c ol2;                            f---J   A
A~~~~                                    Tasl                                             U a-<'-                    f9   Nc,. 0-                                       /                                                     ;r
_ %                  (o-    I                                                                                                                                                                 AR SS
148   P   L  E  R  U jX h \ H~~~~~~(Pupnoe_ 0 R<j  - 
-~~~~~  Aooopuno0  sjlJO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z  ' -
(0S-  \Q t      S                  Jopoo LC                                                -                                                                                                           \     _c
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I.                                                    C,                                                                                                    T    T       }/ CIoTO  Hara  CIT/C   A   CA 
~~~"'0                                                                                                                                                                                      $0917401~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  )  p
ARE0L PAI   Xj                                                                               , ~~ ~1 PCohordArrant o                                                                                                                       SI//M
/~~~ ~ t                                                                  's            N )t   /~UT                                < ,pshrv-a  Sc7 {    elhcnes   --slfak
Alt o        /
\/r0flCOOC           /,40000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Il
P       U                                    4McPoIO-
~~~~Kvo   J7tvio ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                                                 -      -od rood
Feederro,(rnl ufcd r          Hea oh p-st                 R-u---Tirood,
,/90590         /O                                                                          >               Dt tracks                  '01 Posrbleotennt-o--oo39ors ae                                                                                       9
N B   P,inin  -ti fis                N-mb., of p-opotd -omm-ity    s.Aires, p
CD/  Research Cearers                potable water systems y .thi,     District boundories
""M   O Q   U  E G  U Acenters                                                     ha districts                      Deportmens  nortdary



