Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2722-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 27, 1980
Thb ouoent ia a restriced distibution and mny be used by rwipients ody in the perfonnum  ofi
r official dutise. Its eontents my not otherwis   e disclhsed witlht Wold Dak autihorition..



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
difference between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate
and currency equivalents in effect on January 31, 1980, were as follows:
CURRENCY UNIT = Sol (SI.)
Calendar 1979    January 31, 1980
US$1         =        SI. 225             SI. 255
SI. 1        =        US$0.0044           US$0.0039
S/. 1,000    =        US$4.44             US$3.92
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ARE         -    Agrarian Reform Enterprise
BAP         -    Banco Agrario del Peru
(Peruvian Agricultural Bank)
CENCIRA     -    Centro Nacional de Capacitacion
para la Reforma Agraria
(National Training Center for Agrarian Reform)
ENCI        -    Empresa Nacional de Comercializacion de Insumos
(National Input Marketing Company)
ERP         -    Economic Recovery Program
INIA        -    Instituto Nacional de Investigacion Agricola
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
MAA         -    Ministerio de Agricultura y Alimentacion
(Ministry of Agriculture and Food)
ORDEPUNO    -    Organismo Regional de Desarrollo de Puno
(Puno Regional Development Organization)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Peru
Loan Amount:             US$15.0 million equivalent
Terms:                   Payable in seventeen years, including four years of
grace, at 8.25 percent per annum.
Project Description:    The objectives of this project, which would be carried
out in the southern Peruvian altiplano near Puno, are to
improve living conditions for the approximately 29,500
rural families in the project area now at or below the
relative poverty level. Of these, 170,000 families
participating directly in the agricultural develop-
ment components would increase their agricultural and
livestock production on about 24,000 ha of the project
area through the improvement and construction of
irrigation systems, the provision of agricultural
credit and intensive research and extension programs.
The project would also include the rehabilitation
of rural roads a forest plantation component for
fuel and soil conservation, improvement of rural
health facilities, construction of communal potable
water systems, vocational training and preinvestment
studies for a follow-up project. The principal risk
confronting the project is its administrative com-
plexity. To deal with this risk a Project Unit would
be established in ORDEPUNO, the Puno Regional Develop-
ment Organization, with operational control over
most of the executing agencies. In addition, the
project would be closely supervised by Bank staff and
would receive substantial technical assistance.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of e
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost-
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ millions)
(a) Irrigation Works                     2.3        1.3       3.6
(b) Farm Credit Program                  2.7       4.3        7.0
(c) Roads, Communications                1.5        1.0       2.5
and Forest Plantation
(d) Social Infrastructure                0.9       0.5        1.4
(e) Project Unit Administration and
Extension and Training Services   2.8          1.2        4.0
(f) Research and Project Preparation  1.1          0.7        1.8
Baseline Costs                     11.3        9.0       20.3
Physical Contingencies              0.9        0.7        1.6
Price Contingencies                 3.0        2.4        5.4
Total Project Costs                15.2       12.1       27.3
Financing Plan:                          Local      Foreign      Total
(US$ million)
Bank                                 7.2         7.8        15.0
Government                           7.2         4.3        11.5
Beneficiaries                        0.8          -          0.8
15.2       12.1        27.3
Estimated Disbursements:           1981      1982      1983      1984     1985
(US$ millions by Bank fiscal year)
Annual                         1.8       3.8     3.9        3.7       1.8
Cumulative                     1.8       5.6     9.5       13.2      15.0
Rate of Return:                     27 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:             Report No. 2736-PE, dated February 12, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR THE
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$15 million to help finance
the Puno Rural Development Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Long-Term Development Issues:
Peru" (Report No. 2204-PE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 13, 1979.  This part is based on the report's findings as well as those
of more recent economic missions to Peru. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Background
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (the
Costa), with 46 percent of the population where modern economic activity is
concentrated; the Sierra, with 44 percent of the country's population, which
encompasses the highlands above 2,000 meters; and the sparsely populated,
tropical rain forests east of the Andes (Selva). The rugged topography limits
trade between the three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of varied minerals,
particularly copper, iron, silver and zinc, located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern coast. Petroleum resources, particularly in the jungle areas of
the North and offshore, are believed to be substantial but their full extent
has not yet been ascertained. Another major natural resource asset is the
large fishing potential in coastal waters, although the magnitude of this
potential is subject to sharp fluctuations. Agricultural land is limited, and
most of the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
1/   The section is substantially unchanged from the Petroleum Production
Rehabilitation Project President's Report of February 13, 1980 (Report
No. 2706-PE).



5.        As a result of three decades (1930-1960) of rapidly falling mortality
rates, the rate of population growth had risen. In the early 1960's, birth
rates started a gradual fall, mainly caused by the urbanization process and by
improved education. But as death rates continued to fall, population has
continued to grow at about 2.8 percent p.a. Since death rates are expected to
fall further, population growth is likely to remain at around 2.8 percent p.a.
over the next 25 years, unless an effective demographic policy is adopted.
Given the structure of Peru's population, the labor force is expected to grow
well in excess of 3 percent per year during the next 15 years.
6.        Crude oil is the dominant source of energy in Peru, supplying approxi-
mately 80 percent of Peru's commercial energy requirements. Although Peru's
energy resource base is relatively diverse and there is scope for expanding
the role of hydropower and coal in future electricity generation, petroleum
will still provide the major part of Peru's energy requirements throughout the
rest of this century. After being dependent on imported crude oil for many
years to meet its petroleum needs, domestic oil production increased almost
threefold between 1976 and 1979, enabling Peru to export oil in substantial
quantities for the first time since 1958. Despite this encouraging production
trend, domestic consumption is likely to rebound after several years of
stagnation so that Peru may once again become a net importer of petroleum in
the mid-1980's unless new oil reserves are discovered.
Past Development Policies
7.        Since the military came to power in 1968, the Government has followed
a development strategy directed at achieving economic growth and at narrowing
the sharp differences in wealth and opportunities between population in various
income classes and geographical regions. The Government has tried to correct
class and regional imbalances by expanding the role of the State in the
economy, changing the pattern of asset ownership, reducing foreign ownership
of national resources, orienting industry and agriculture toward producing
essential goods for the domestic market, stimulating the deconcentration of
economic activity out of Lima, and reforming the educational system to make it
more responsive to local economic and social needs. Through nationalization
and creation of new enterprises, the State has taken direct control of over
150 enterprises in key economic sectors, and its share in total capital
formation has risen from less than one-fourth in 1968-70 to about one half in
1974-1978. By imposing complex legislation, the Government has also strictly
controlled the operations of the private sector.
8.        As a result of these actions, the pattern of asset ownership in
the economy has changed drastically. Through nationalization, the share
of assets owned by foreigners fell sharply. A sweeping land reform redistri-
buted 43 percent of the country's best farmland to workers' cooperatives
benefitting some 25 percent of all rural families. Through other laws,
industrial workers were given shares in the firms which employed them and,
in the mining sector, a share in profits. The Government has also given a
strong autarkic orientation to its agricultural and industrial sector policies
and strengthened the incentives for industries outside of Lima.



- 3 -
9.        The Government's programs have benefitted large numbers of Peruvians,
but they have hardly reached the poorest half of the population which continues
to live in abject poverty. It is estimated, for example, that about three
quarters of rural families, mostly "minifundistas" (those farming less than
2 ha) and the landless seasonal workers, have not been reached by social pro-
grams. The Government imposed controls on prices of a number of domestic-
ally produced goods and heavily subsidized imported petroleum and foodstuffs.
Most of the subsidized products, however, were more important in the consump-
tion basket of high and middle-income Peruvians than in that of the poorest
groups. Moreover, the maintenance of artificially low prices for some
products--such as mutton and cereals--actually hurt the poor who produced these
items, and affected production negatively.
10.       In the final account, one of the most significant achievements
of the Government was the promotion of the cultural and political integration
of the country. Owing in great part to the land reform, an important segment
of the rural population has become better organized and is able to communicate
its priorities in a more forceful and articulate way. Unfortunately, although
many of the policies and structural changes carried out since 1968 were meant
to achieve rapid growth and more equality, the cost of these measures proved
to be excessive and their implementation inefficient.
The Economic Crisis
11.       During nine years, 1968-77, the military Government followed expan-
sionary fiscal and credit policies. A rapid increase in spending by the
public sector (including large defense outlays) was not matched by a parallel
increase in revenues. Pricing, interest rate and foreign exchange policies
encouraged consumption and discouraged savings, exports and, sometimes,
overall production. As a result of these policies, aggregate demand consider-
ably exceeded aggregate supply. This excess demand, in turn, led to widening
external gaps and to strong inflationary pressures, with a resulting loss of
international reserves and a massive build-up of external debt.
12.       This imbalance was aggravated by circumstances beyond the control
of the authorities. Anchovies, the fishing industry's principal product,
virtually disappeared as the annual catch dropped from around 10,000 metric
tons in 1968-71 to an average of 2,300 metric tons in 1975-78. Between 1974
and 1978, furthermore, Peru's terms of trade worsened sharply. Export prices,
particularly for copper and sugar (which together accounted for almost one-
fourth of merchandise exports), fell from their very high 1974 levels at a
time when import prices soared. Petroleum reserves, which in the early 1970's
were predicted to lead to a quick, major expansion in export earnings, have
taken much longer than expected to come on line.
13.       Public sector savings dropped steadily in relation to GDP from
4.4 percent in 1970 to dissavings of 2.6 percent in 1977. A major cause for
this was a massive erosion of the tax base owing to excessive tax incentives,
loopholes in the tax system and weak enforcement. At the same time, there
were rises in the budgetary cost of subsidies for foodstuffs and petroleum
products, and sharp increases in military imports and local expenditures.
Much of public investment, furthermore, was increasingly concentrated on



capital-intensive projects with long gestation periods and little immediate
contribution to the growth of output or employment.
14.       Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year in 1970 to 38 percent
in 1977. Interest rates on domestic banking system loans, however, remained
substantially negative in real terms, discouraging financial savings and stim-
ulating capital flight. Moreover, the exchange rate remained practically
constant between 1968 and 1975, thus contributing to the overall disequilibrium.
National savings fell dramatically from 16 percent of GNP in 1970 to 8 percent
in 1977, when they financed only about one-half of investment. Following
a period of rapid expansion in 1968-74 during which GDP grew by more than 6
percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively and became negative in
1977.
15.       The growing disequilibrium described above was reflected in the
balance of payments. The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per
year in 1974-77, equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this
deficit, Peru accumulated a massive external debt. Peru's total private
and public external debt--including short-term indebtedness--stood at almost
US$8.3 billion by year-end 1977, equivalent to two-thirds of GDP and four
times exports. Much of this debt was contracted on fairly short maturities
with three fourths of the public sector's long-term debt--which is estimated
to have totaled US$6.3 billion--scheduled to be repaid over the 1978-82 period.
16.       Beginning in 1975, successive economic teams made several efforts to
cope with the mounting economic crisis. A major stabilization program was
initiated in June 1976, when the sol was devalued from S/. 45 to S/. 65 per
U.S. dollar, fiscal and credit policies were tightened and interest rates were
raised. This program was initially successful in reducing the fiscal deficit
and the loss of foreign exchange. Nevertheless, it was abandoned later in the
year as a consequence of strong popular opposition and a lack of consensus
within the Government regarding the gravity of the financial situation.
Further attempts to stabilize the economy were initiated in March, July and
Septem'ber 1977 but they were not successful. A stand-by arrangement was
negotiated with the IMF and approved in November 1977, but its targets were
not met. While these efforts proved to be false starts, they succeeded in
somewhat reducing the gap between national savings and investment from a peak
of 11.5 percent of GNP in 1975 to 8.5 percent in 1976 and 7.4 percent in 1977.
17.       By mid-1978 the economic crisis had reached grave proportions.  The
drop in GDP had intensified and inflation had further accelerated to an annual
rate approaching 100 percent. Moreover, the private sector was finding it
increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports and the
banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative level of
US$800 million. It had become clear that the public sector was fast approach-
ing the point where it would no longer be able to fully service its external
debt. Peru was no longer creditworthy. Financial instability had reached the
point where practically all economic activities were adversely affected.
Stabilization Efforts
18.       A new economic team was named in May 1978.  Since then, the Govern-
ment has adopted a number of important measures aimed at strengthening public



finances, stimulating exports and stemming the loss of international reserves.
By means of a crawling peg, the sol was devalued from SI. 130 to the U.S.
dollar in May to almost S/. 200 to the U.S. dollar by year-end 1978; since
then the sol was devalued a further 28 percent. Most subsidies were elimi-
nated, thus closing an important drain on public savings. Other price con-
trols were re]^xed. In addition, a number of tax measures were adopted and
Government expenditures were restrained. Interest rates on bank loans were
raised from 16 to 31.5 percent per year. Peru reached agreement with foreign
commercial banks to reschedule US$185 million of principal payments due in
the second half of 1978 until January 1979. The Government also negotiated
a stand-by arrangement for SDR 184 million, which was approved by the IMF on
September 15. In July 1979, this stand-by was replaced by a new stand-by
arrangement for SDR 285 million, (of which, SDR 232 million will be financed
from the Fund's supplementary financing facility) in support of the same
financial program. Peru's debt outstanding to the IMF as of June 30, 1979 was
equivalent to SDR 439.8 million.
19.       The Government's financial stabilization program, supported by the
stand-by, has resulted in a dramatic improvement in public sector finances in
1979. Public sector current account savings rose from - 0.7 percent of
GDP in 1978 to about 3.6 percent of GDP in 1979 and the overall deficit was
reduced from 6.4 percent of GDP in 1978 to 2.9 percent in 1979. Central
Government revenues increased by 23 percent in real terms, while current
outlays declined by 6 percent. Payments for wages and salaries alone fell by
some 7 percent in real terms, partly as a result of a planned reduction in
excessive civil service employment. The elimination of subsidies on food and
petroleum products, initiated in mid-1978, also contributed to the control of
current expenditures. Defense outlays have also been cut. On the revenue
side, several measures--including a 10 percent import surcharge, a higher tax
on traditional exports and an increased tax on interest charged on bank loans--
help to achieve the revenue target. In spite of good fiscal performance,
however, inflationary pressures remain strong, with the consumer price index
rising at an annual rate of 67 percent.
Debt Restructuring
20.       Major debt-relief operations carried out in late 1978 enabled Peru
to reduce substantially the debt-service burden for 1979 and 1980, postponing
repayment to the 1982-1986 period. In May 1978, the Soviet Union rescheduled
the equivalent of about US$140 million of maturities originally due in 1978-80.
These amounts are to be repaid over a 10-year period including three years of
grace. In November, at a Paris Club meeting, the OECD countries agreed to
reschedule 90 percent of principal payments due by the public sector to
governments and guaranteed suppliers in 1979 (US$250 million) and 1980 (US$263
million). These amounts are to be repaid over a period of eight years, in-
cluding three years of grace. The Paris Club agreement states that 1980
maturities will be rescheduled provided that Peru agrees with the IMF, by
December 31, 1979, on a financial program for 1980. (This agreement with the
IMF was scheduled to be considered by the IMF Board on February 27, 1980.)



-6-
The Paris Club creditors also agreed to reschedule 90 percent of the principal
payments due in 1979 and 1980 (about US$30 million in each year) on private
sector debt guaranteed or insured in the creditor countries. In addition,
Peru has negotiated smaller amounts of debt relief with non-OECD countries.
21.       As regards the large medium-term public debt to commercial banks,
in keeping with an agreement concluded in December 1978, Peru has been repaying
in 1979 the bulk of the US$185 million rolled over from 1978 (para 18 above).
The agreement reached between the Government of Peru and the commercial banks
gives the Government the option of refinancing up to 90 percent of the maturi-
ties due in 1979 and 1980. The Government, however, has recently indicated
that it intends to forego a large part of this debt relief, in view of the
much improved balance-of-payments situation (para 25).
Social Situation
22.       The economic crisis has been reflected in two consecutive years of
negative growth. Total Gross Domestic Income fell by 0.6 percent in 1977 and
a further 3.9 percent in 1978. In this two-year period GDP per capita dropped
by over 8 percent. This situation, in turn, has been reflected in incomes and
employment. Nearly one half of Peru's labor force is believed to be unemployed
or underemployed, i.e., earning less than the minimum wage or working less
than 35 hours a week and wishing to work more. According to government
estimates, the purchasing power of an average salary had fallen 40 percent by
1978 compared to 1970 and that of an average wage by over 16 percent. In
these circumstances, the social situation has been unavoidably tense, and
several general strikes have taken place during the past year.
23.       In July, 1979 the military Government promulgated a new constitution,
written by a popularly elected assembly. The Government has called for
elections in May, 1980 and the transfer of authority to a civilian government
is scheduled to take place in July, 1980. At present the authorities are
maintaining an informal dialogue with the leaders of the major political
parties in an effort to ensure the continuity of economic policies following
the political transition.
The Economic Recovery Program
24.       With the financial stabilization program and the debt restructuring
described above, the Government has brought the fiscal and external gaps under
control. These efforts, however, have not yet helped much in overcoming the
deep economic recession. To this end the Government conceived an Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) which would reverse the decline in GDP and lay a basis
for a financially sound economic recovery. The ERP includes, in addition to
the above-mentioned stabilization actions, measures to open up the economy,
stimulate industrial sector efficiency, promote non-traditional exports,
strengthen the tax system by broadening its base, and generally improve the
efficiency of resource allocation in the private and public sectors. In this
connection, the Government formulated a Public Sector Investment Program that
aims at redirecting public investment towards projects of clear economic
priority and positive effect on production and employment. In support of the
ERP, the Bank approved a US$115 million program loan in May, 1979. Progress



in carrying out the ERP is generally satisfactory with performance in some
critical areas--e.g., export promotion--actually exceeding expectations.
25.       The Government's program has also led to a strong balance of payments
performance in 1979, which is essential for economic recovery and to restore
net international reserves. This was achieved by maintainin- in export-oriented
foreign exchange policy, realistic interest rates, and the prumotion of non-
traditional exports, but it is also the result of low, recession prone imports.
In addition, Peru benefitted from substantial price increases for silver,
copper, petroleum and other commodities. The Peruvian Government also intends
to improve foreign debt management by, inter alia, making greater use of aid
from official bilateral and international donors to the extent possible. Much
of Peru's large foreign short-term debt (estimated at over US$2 billion as of
year-end 1978) is expected to be rolled over or refinanced as the gradually
improving economic situation permits new trade-related credit lines to be
opened. The trade balance is expected to be strengthened by favorable world
prices for minerals, and by the availability of a large petroleum surplus
for export amounting to some US$850 million per year over the next few years.
Even though about one third of the projected gross petroleum exports would
leave the country as profit remittances, this still implies a major improvement
over recent years, when Peru was spending in excess of US$200 million per year
on fuel imports.
26.       As economic activity recovers to an annual growth of about 6.5 per
cent in real terms during 1979-85 and the volume of petroleum exports stagnates
and eventually declines, the value of imports is expected to outpace exports.
Based on assumptions that are cautiously optimistic, the country is expected
to show a strong balance-of-payments performance through the mid-eighties,
with current account surpluses and a substantial build up of foreign exchange
reserves in spite of heavy debt repayment obligations. The balance-of-payments
situation may, however, deteriorate in the second half of the eighties (or
even earlier), when the exportable surlus of oil is expected to decline. This
will eventually result in increasing current account deficits, particularly if
imports exceed projections as a result of the recently started import liberali-
zation process. Against this background and given Peru's large overhang of
external indebtedness, there is a continuing need for official development
assistance, including some degree of local cost financing. Considering the
expected medium-term balance-of-payments performance and assuming that the
authorities continue to carry out the ERP and to maintain prudent financial
policies, Peru is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
27.       In addition to the US$32.5 million loan to PETROPERU which the
Executive Directors are expected to consider in March, the Bank has approved
36 loans to Peru for a total amount of US$732.1 million, net of cancellations.
About 33 percent of the Bank's lending to Peru has been for transportation
(mainly highways and ports), 22 percent for agriculture, 16 percent for the
May 1979 Program Loan, 12 percent for the energy sector, 11 percent for mining
and industry and about 6 percent for education and urban development.



28.       Of the US$279.1 million undisbursed as of January 31, 1980, almost
95 percent is attributable to the seven project loans and the program loan
made since 1976. The slow start-up of the project loans--only two of which
were "repeater" operations--as well as the slow progress of previous opera-
tions was due, in large part, to weak project execution capacity and to a
shortage of counterpart funds that worsened as the economic situation deterio-
rated during this period. As a result, disbursements have averaged about
US$25 million per year over the past few years (Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of January 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of
on-going projects). In an effort to improve this situation: (i) the Bank has
recently opened a resident mission in Peru; (ii) the Executive Directors have
approved modifications in the Education and the Lima/Amazon Corridor Projects
(see Annex II for further details); (iii) adequate counterpart funds have been
provided by the Government for 1979 and 1980; and (iv) the Government has set
up a special commission to monitor loan execution and resolve administrative
problems. With these actions and since start-up problems facing some of the
newer projects have now been largely overcome, the pace of disbursement is now
increasing. Almost US$20 million was disbursed on project loans in the first
semester of FY 1980.
29.       Program Loan disbursement started slowly because of the unforeseen
increase in foreign exchange availability in Peru as a result of booming
exports and continued depressed import levels, as well as substantial debt
rescheduling. In order to accelerate disbursements, the list of eligible
imports has been expanded to include additional high priority industrial
inputs. In recent months, Program Loan disbursements have increased markedly.
As of February 4, 1980, US$41.2 million had been disbursed.
30.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru have been to assist
in (a) the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and
foster development; (b) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (c) the consolidation of structural and institutional changes,
particularly land and education reforms; (d) the strengthening of agencies
to implement and operate projects effectively; and (e) improving living con-
ditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank lending concentrated
on infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors. More recently, the
Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive fields -- mining,
agriculture and industry -- to aid Peru in surmounting its balance of payments
problems. Lending for social projects has also grown.
31.       The next operations that would be ready for the Executive Directors'
consideration include a provincial airports project, a sixth agricultural
credit project, a mining operation and a highway maintenance project.
32.       Bank loans constituted about 7.0 percent of Peru's total public
external debt, including undisbursed, at the end of 1978, and absorbed about
3.7 percent of the country's external debt service in 1978. Assuming increased
recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral aid by Peru, the Bank's share
in the country's outstanding public foreign debt by 1985 could reach 12 percent
and its share of debt-service would be around 5.5 percent.



-9 -
33.       IFC commitments to date have been US$29.7 million (including US$15
million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone Copper Mining
Project) of which US$17.2 million is held by the Corporation. A summary
statement of IFC investments as of January 31, 1980 is presented in Annex II.
34.       -i other principal official agencies lending to Peru -- IDB and
USAID -- are expected to continue giving special attention to agriculture with
IDB emphasizing agricultural credit and small scale irrigation and AID stress-
ing rural development. Total loan commitments as of October 31, 1979 by IDB
and USAID were US$500.9 million and US$198.3 million, respectively, and their
shares of debt service as of end-1978 were 1.0 percent and 0.5 percent,
respectively.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Land and Water Resources
35.       Peru has a limited natural reso rce base for agriculture.  Of the
country's total land area of 1,285,000 km , only about 2.9 percent is cultiv-
able and another 17 percent is natural pastureland. Some additional land
could be brought into production, but only at a high cost either for expensive
new coastal irrigation schemes or by providing basic infrastructure for more
remote areas, mainly in the Amazon region east of the Andes.
36.       Of the country's three principal regions, the 130,000 km  Costa
is the major agricultural area. This region accounts for about 10 percent of
the total land area and 46 percent of the country's population. Agriculture
in the Costa, which consists mainly of desert terrain, is limited to river
valleys where irrigation is possible.
37.       The Selva region east of the Andes accounts for 64 percent of the
total land area but for only 10 percent of the country's population. There is
abundant water, since Peru's major river systems flow through the area and
rainfall is high, but soils are generally poor--particularly in the lower
Selva. In an area known as the Ceja de Selva (the foothills between the Andes
and the lower Selva), soils are of better quality and agricultural and live-
stock development has begun.
38.       The Sierra, where the Puno project would be located, has about 44
percent of the country's populatio2 and consists of steep mountains and high
valleys. Of the zone's 332,000 km, about seven percent are farmed and 52
percent are used for grazing. Because of the rugged topography and severe
climate, productivity is low and there is little scope for putting new land
into production. There is a potential, however, for increasing agricultural
and livestock productivity through projects such as the one proposed in this
report.



- 10 -
Agriculture in the Economy
39.       In 1978, agriculture contributed about 13 percent to Peru's GDP,
employed more than 42 percent of the labor force and accounted for about
18 percent of total merchandise exports. From the mid-1960s to the mid-1970s,
investment in agriculture was low mainly because of uncertainty and rural
unrest during a period when a major agrarian reform was proposed and under-
taken. Government price, production and marketing control policies also tended
to discourage investment and production by setting low prices for foodstuffs
to favor urban areas and by imposing production limits on non-food crops. As
a result, the value of food production in constant prices increased by an
average of only one percent per annum during this period. During the same
period, population increased by an average of 2.9 percent per annum. Conse-
quently, the country's dependence on imported foodstuffs grew substantially,
mainly for dairy products, legumes, vegetable oils and grains such as wheat
and maize. At the same time, the volume of agricultural exports--which
consist primarily of coffee, cotton and sugar--declined and by 1975/76 was
only about 60 percent of its 1962/63 level. A principal cause was the sharp
contraction in cotton production because of erratic prices and government
policies emphasizing food production. Also, the value of sugar exports was
curtailed by rapidly increasing domestic consumption and low world prices.
In spite of these trends, Peru continued to maintain a positive, though shrink-
ing, balance of trade in agriculture through the mid-70s. In 1977/78, this
positive balance grew as food imports were reduced--because of the country's
economic crisis--and the value of exports grew, primarily because of the
increase in coffee prices.
40.       The Government has recognized that improvement of the agricultural
sector's performance is critical to the country's economic progress and to the
well-being of the rural population. It has, therefore, recently taken steps
to stimulate production and increase producers' incomes. In 1978, farmgate
prices were greatly increased, restrictions on production were relaxed and
consumer subsidies on food products were reduced substantially. While there
are indications that these policy changes have had a positive influence
(e.g., there has been a 20 percent increase in the 1979/80 cotton crop), it
is still too early to estimate their full impact on agricultural production.
Agrarian Reform
41.       In June 1969, the Government approved an agrarian reform law aimed
at expropriation of 14,500 estates covering 10.3 million ha (43 percent of the
country's area in farms). By the end of 1978, the agrarian reform was sub-
stantially completed but had benefitted only about 25 percent of the country's
1.8 million rural families.
42.       Rather than dividing them up among individual farmers, the agrarian
reform left the large cotton and sugar estates on the Costa and cattle and
sheep ranches in the Sierra intact. These agrarian reform enterprises (AREs)
are now run on a commercial basis under various forms of cooperative associa-
tion. By and large, they work fairly well on the Costa where the workers were
already acquainted with large production units and wiLh the technologies used.
Production has been maintained in most cases and the incomes of agrarian
reform beneficiaries have improved somewhat.



- 11 -
43.       The introduction of cooperative forms, with which the Sierra
population was not familiar, has not been as successful. Member rejection has
been particularly noticeable in the poor tenant-based haciendas, where coopera-
tivization has been accompanies by attempts to eliminate individual plots and
herds. Also, since wages and jobs for ARE members are both guaranteed, there
are few incentives towards labor effort and discipline. Effe  ive management
is also a major problem for many of these enterprises, since - large number of
the technicians and administrators previously working on the private estates
left and were replaced by less qualified staff.
44.       The Government recognizes that the success of the agrarian reform
will depend on solving the AREs' organizational problems and increasing their
efficiency. The key issue will be how to strengthen the identification of the
members with the ARE to establish labor discipline. For this reason, the
Government is beginning to undertake projects to increase the production and
profits of the enterprise in order to provide greater benefits to participants.
To begin to deal with the AREs' management problems, the Government has
conditioned the granting of credit to enterprises on the hiring of qualified
professional managers. With these measures and improvements in organization
and supporting services, such as those envisaged in the proposed project, the
AREs' management and financial situation should slowly begin to improve.
45.       Altogether, about 75 percent of the rural population--mostly land-
less workers and farmers with less than 2 ha--were left untouched by the
agrarian reform. In a sense, these groups are now worse off than before: for
the landless workers, employment opportunities on the large cooperative farms
have now become more scarce, and the Government has channelled its agricultural
support services almost exclusively to the AREs. To reverse this trend in the
Puno area, services and credit for small farmers would be a major component of
the proposed project and the employment generation envisaged should provide
work for the relatively few landless laborers in the project area.
Agriculture and Rural Poverty in the Sierra
46.       About 75 percent of the Sierra's population depends on farming
(much of which is at the subsistence level) and cottage industry; the remainder
are engaged in mining, commerce and other activities. Annual farm family
income in the mid-1970's was estimated at US$250 equivalent--well below the
relative poverty level in Peru of US$800 per family. One of the major limita-
tions on the region's economic development has been stagnating agricultural
productivity. Already restrained by harsh climatic conditions and the perva-
siveness of inadequate traditional practices, agricultural production in the
Sierra has received little assistance from Government infrastructure or
support service programs. Also, until recent policy shifts, pro-urban
pricing had discouraged production.
47.       Over 95 percent of the more than one million farms in the Sierra
and under 20 ha in size; these account for 77 percent of the region's cropland
and for about 65 percent of livestock herds. Medium-sized units (20-100 ha)
and units of over 100 ha (mostly AREs) represent three and one percent, respec-
tively, of the number of farms. The Sierra accounts for almost 80 percent of



- 12 -
the country's cattle herds and for almost all of the sheep. Much ranching,
however, is done under marginal conditions and yields are low. This is also
true of crop farming, which is limited to one short growing season from about
November to March. The principal crops are potatoes, barley, wheat and
quinua--a native grain. The Sierra is the country's main producer of these
staples.
48.       Poor economic performance is accompanied by miserable living condi-
tions and social and cultural impoverishment, particularly in rural areas.
Most housing is primitive, with inadequate potable water and sanitary facili-
ties. Few homes have electricity. Both caloric and protein intake are
inadequate among Sierra residents and 60 to 70 percent of rural children under
school age are malnourished. Life expectancy in the region is 35 years,
mainly as a result of high infant mortality rates of over 100 per thousand
live births. Infectious parasitic and respiratory diseases--owing to poor
personal hygiene, lack of immunization and inadequate potable water and
sewerage disposal facilities--are the leading cause of death. Health services
are rudimentary or non-existent; Sierra departments average less than one
health facility bed and one professional or technical staff per thousand
persons--under one-half the national average--and even these are concentrated
in urban centers.
49.       The extreme poverty and poor living conditions of the rural Sierra
have resulted in significant migration to urban areas, especially to the
cities of Puno, Arequipa and Lima. The region's population is increasing
at only one percent per annum, with most growth in the urban areas.
Institutional Framework and Support Services
50.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAA) is generally responsible
for formulating and carrying out Government agriculture sector policies and
activities. These include overseeing the agrarian reform, providing extension
services, carrying out research and executing agricultural projects. Operations
at the field level are carried out by 13 regional directorates. Training for
agricultural extensionists and farmers is provided by the National Training
Center for the Agrarian Reform (CENCIRA) in its local centers. Research is
undertaken by the National Agricultural Research Institute (INIA) through
regional stations. Both CENCIRA and INIA are autonomous entities under MAA.
Generally, the MAA--at both the central and regional levels--has suffered
budgetary limitations that have resulted in low salaries and consequent
difficulties in retaining qualified personnel. The Government has recently
raised salaries somewhat in an effort to attract experienced technicians to
key positions.
51.       Under the General Water Law of 1969, all water became property of
the state. The MAA is now responsible for irrigation activities and the
establishment of water rates. Under the 1969 law, farmers are required--in
accordance with their financial capacity--to pay water charges to cover full
operation and maintenance, plus a reasonable amount of the investment costs of
the works. Some maintenance is carried out by water users' associations
which are authorized to impose charges to pay for the work. Until recently,



- 13 -
water charges imposed by the Government were nominal, effective collection
was low and receipts did not cover 0 & M costs. Moreover, the monies that
were collected went to the national treasurer and not to the irrigation
districts where farmers could see the fees they paid invested. This situation
is beginning to improve (see para. 82).
52.       The Peruvian Agricultural Bank (BAP), a Government-owned institution,
provides 85 percent of agricultural credit in Peru, with the balance coming
from other banks. BAP has branch offices and agencies throughout the country.
About 90 percent of BAP's annual lending consists of short-term production
credit, mainly to AREs. BAP long-term lending has generally been financed by
Bank or I1B loans. BAP has executed five Bank-financed agriculture credit
loans and is acting as banking agent for the on-farm development credit
component of the 1977 First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1403-PE)
and of the 1979 Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1771-PE).
BAP's lending operations have grown in recent years owing to rising demand
from AREs and declining participation of private banks. The volume of BAP
long-term development credit has increased to a lesser degree because of BAP's
lack of resources and the reluctance of individual farmers to invest. Although
a high level of arrears has been a problem, BAP's financial situation has been
improving recently as AREs have become better established.
53.       Marketing services and provision of agricultural inputs are provided
by the National Input Marketing Company (ENCI). ENCI operates storage facil-
ities around the country and markets fertilizer and seeds.
54.       At the local level, development activities are coordinated by
regional development organizations which have been established in a number of
areas over the past five years. The Puno Regional Development Organization
(ORDEPUNO) is typical of such entities. The Chief of ORDEPUNO has ministerial
rank and reports directly to the President. The various national ministry
regional directorates (agriculture, health, education, transport, etc.) are
under his control. Their budgets are established by ORDEPUNO in accordance
with regional priorities and plans.
Sectoral Development Strategy
55.       In addition to assisting the rural poor, particularly the Indians of
the Sierra, the Government's agricultural development strategy as reflected in
its 1978-1982 Medium Term Public Investment Program is to: (i) continue
development and rehabilitation of irrigated coastal areas where the potential
for increases in production is great and large investments in irrigation
infrastructure have already been made; (ii) begin to develop the potentially
rich Ceja de Selva, east of the Andes; and (iii) increase development of
smaller scale irrigation projects. The Government is also interested in
increasing the flow of agricultural credit and strengthening its weak exten-
sion service to provide better support to both small farmers and AREs.
Bank Lending
56.       In order to help spur Peru's agricultural development, the Bank has
made 11 loans to Peru totalling US$163.5 million. Five of them, in the period
1954-1973 and totalling US$55.0 million, were for agricultural credit and were



- 14 -
channelled through BAP (105-PE, 162-PE, 257-PE, 415-PE and 933-PE). In
general, BAP performance has been good; disbursement of the last loan (933-PE)
has been completed and preparation of a sixth loan is underway. Two loans
(67-PE and 98-PE), totalling US$3 million, were for farm machinery imports.
Another two (Loans 114-PE of 1955 and 418-PE of 1965), totalling US$24.5
million, financed irrigation works and land settlement in the San Lorenzo area
within the Chira-Piura basin. The San Lorenzo project, financed by Loan
418-PE, is the only one in the sector that has been the subject of a Performance
Audit. Although the Audit Report concluded that the project achieved its
basic goals of increasing agricultural production and the incomes of rural
poor, it noted the need for provision for better maintenance of works, a strong
project unit, and agricultural support programs for irrigation projects.
These findings were taken into account in the design of the two most recent
irrigation operations: The First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project and the
Lower Piura Project (Loans 1403-PE of 1977 and 1771-PE of 1979 for US$25 and
US$56 million, respectively).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.       This would be the first Bank-financed integrated rural development
project in Peru. After several Bank exploratory missions, project preparation
was begun in mid 1977 by a working group established under the direction of
the Puno regional office of the MAA. This group included representatives of
the various regional agencies expected to participate in the project. A feasi-
bility study for the proposed project was completed in mid-1978, with the
assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. A Bank mission visited Peru
to appraise the project in June 1979. The appraisal mission's report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report, Puno Rural Development Project" (No. 2736-PE dated
February 12, 1980), is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary data are contained in Annex III. Negotiations took place in
Washington from February 4 through 12 and the Peruvian Delegation was headed
by Mr. Ulises Montoya, Deputy Director of Public Credit of the Ministry
of Economy and Finance.
The Project Area
58.        The project area consists basically of the 8,558 sq km Juliaca
micro-region in the Department of Puno, located close to Lake Titicaca on the
southeastern border of Peru (see the attached map). The principal city in the
area is the marketing and transport center of Juliaca, with a population of
39,000. The micro-region is mainly a plateau intersected by valleys. Most of
the agricultural land is located between 3,800 m and 4,200 m. There are only
about 12,000 ha in crops--about half in potatoes, one quarter in quinua, one
fifth. in barley and the rest in other grains, beans and minor crops. Most of
the balance of arable land is in natural pasture. There is little cultivated
pasture in the project area, although about 150,000 ha are suitable for this.
Lake Titicaca and four rivers in the area provide surface water resources.
Although the area is semi-arid, only about 600 ha (mainly on small farms) is
irrigated. Two trunk roads, both gravel-surfaced and in poor condition, cross
the area. One leads to the Costa and the other serves the southern highlands
of the Altiplano. The 625 km of secondary roads in the project area are also
in poor condition.



- 15 -
59.       The rural population of the micro-region was estimated at 118,000
in 1978, representing some 29,500 families engaged in agriculture. Of these,
12,370 or 42 percent were classified as "minifundistas". This group farmed
less than two percent of the land in the project area and their farms averaged
1.1 ha. Their net income from farming (estimated at about US$70 per family in
1977) is below that required for subsistence consumption.  Tr  he extent
possible, the "minifundistas" supplement farm income with earnings from
seasonal labor and sale of artisan products. Another 13,390 families (45
percent of the total) were classified as "small farmers", with plots averaging
12 ha each and annual farming income of US$209 per family. There were also
740 medium farmers (2.5 percent of the total) with farms averaging 93 ha. The
annual incomes of this group were US$577 per family. Finally, about 3,000
families were members of the seven AREs in the area which were created from
former haciendas in the early 1970s. Project area AREs average over 70,000 ha
in size, and are predominantly livestock enterprises based on extensive
grazing of natural pastures. Although only 10 percent of the families in the
project area are ARE members, they manage over half the land and have an
annual family income from farming of US$548.
60.       The Juliaca micro-region is one of the poorest areas of Peru, with
an average income for a four member family of under US$200--well below the
relative poverty level. Social conditions in the area are generally worse
than those typical in the Sierra as described in paragraph 48.
Project Objectives and DescriEption
61.       The objectives of the project, which would be carried out over
a 4-1/2 year period, are to raise incomes and improve living conditions for
the 29,500 low-income rural families in the project area. Of these, 17,000
families (4,100 minifundistas, 9,400 small farmers, 500 medium-sized farmers
and 3,000 families working on seven AREs) participating directly in the
agricultural development components of the project would increase production
and productivity on part of their holdings--20,000 ha of rainfed crop and
pasture land and 4,100 ha of irrigated land. The project area's social and
physical infrastructure would also be improved. This project would constitute
one of the first efforts in Peru to coordinate development activities to
improve the quality of life for poor rural families, including small farm-
ers not associated with the agrarian reform. If, successful, this approach
could be replicated on a larger scale as an important element of the Govern-
ment's program to alleviate rural poverty.
62.       The project would consist of:
(a) the rehabilitation and construction of small irrigation systems
to serve 4,100 ha;
(b) an agricultural credit program to finance on-farm investments
and incremental production inputs for the seven AREs in the
project area and 14,000 private farmers;
(c) crop and livestock extension services for beneficiaries of
the credit program;



- 16 -
(d) the establishment of 1,500 ha of forest plantations for soil
conservation and fuel;
(e) the constuction and improvement of crop, livestock and irrigation
research facilities, and the establishment of training and
demonstration programs;
(f) the rehabilitation and upgrading of 515 km of rural roads, the
acquisition of road maintenance equipment for the micro-region and
the construction of six post offices;
(g) the construction and improvement of 6 and 11 rural health
facilities, respectively. Equipment for these facilities and the
Lampa hospital would also be provided as would a nutrition program
and training for rural health agents;
(h) the installation of small communal potable water systems to serve
some 13,250 families in 46 communities in the project area;
(i) the construction and equipping of 23 vocational training centers; and
(j) studies to prepare a second phase project for the Southern Altiplano.
63.       Irrigation works, representing about 18 percent of project costs,
would include rehabilitation of three irrigation systems (Huata-Quito,
Cabanillas and Taraco) which were constructed 10 to 15 years ago. Repairs to
principal canals, gates and intake works, as well as construction of secondary
and tertiary distribution canals and drainage systems would permit the expan-
sion of irrigated areas from 610 ha to 3200 ha, benefitting about 2,000 small
farmers.
64.       The project would also include the establishment of small-scale
irrigation systems based on pumping from lakes, streams and wells to serve
about 400 ha of the Buena Vista ARE and about 500 ha cultivated by small farmers
in the micro-region. Finally, the project would include the establishment of
a small machinery pool to construct minor on-farm works and to maintain the
irrigation systems.
65.       Agricultural credit, the project's single largest component totalling
about 34 percent of project costs, would be channeled through the BAP to
finance incremental production inputs and on-farm investments including irri-
gation and drainage facilities, establishment of improved pastures, structures
and storage facilities, farm machinery, tools and breeding animals. Altogether,
about 17,000 farm families would benefit from this component.
66.       The technical assistance program, representing over 16 percent of
project costs, would provide crop, livestock and irrigation extension services
to the families benefitting from the credit component. Utilizing the training
and visit system, each extension agent would assist from two to six groups,
depending upon their dispersion and the difficulty of the terrain in the area
for which he was responsible. Specialists in small rural enterprise develop-
ment would also be included in the Project Unit (to be set up under this
operation) to identify possible projects for financing from an existing Banco
Industrial del Peru credit line and to assist in preparation of investment
studies and subloan applications.



- 17 -
67.       The forest plantation program would be carried out on marginal lands
that are not suitable for crops or livestock. In the first years, a seedling
nursery would be established. Thereafter, 1,500 ha would be planted, primarily
with eucalyptus trees. This program would improve soil conservation and even-
tually provide an estimated 2,850 rural families with wood for fuel and sale.
68.       The agricultural research and training component of the project
would include the construction and equipping of an INIA crop and livestock
experimental station at Illpa and the improvement of existing facilities at
Tahuaco. The research program would be applicable to the Altiplano in general
and to the project area. A small MAA irrigation training, demonstration and
research center would also be established at Pirapi to instruct extension
personnel and farmers in appropriate irrigation techniques and water use.
69.       About 309 km of rural feeder roads would be rehabilitated and
improved and 206 km of unsurfaced dirt tracks would be upgraded to all-weather
standards so as to provide year-round access to all communities in the
project area. Acquisition of equipment would be included to assure maintenance
of the system. Six new post offices would be constructed to improve commun-
ications in the area. This component would comprise about 9 percent of total
project costs.
70.       Under the rural health facilities component, six new health posts
to provide ambulatory medical services would be constructed and seven existing
health posts would be rehabilitated. In addition, two existing health posts
would be upgraded to health centers, with four to eight beds each, and two
existing centers would be rehabilitated and equipped. The small existing
Lampa Hospital would also be equipped and expanded to a 20-bed facility.
Regional staff and rural health promoters would receive training, ambulances
and medical kits would be provided, and a small maintenance workshop for
medical equipment would be established. Finally, nutritionists would be
included in the Project Unit to provide training in about 40 villages in food
preservation and preparation, and guidance in cultivating garden plots and
raising small animals. The project would finance a study of the current nutri-
tional status of the population and an annual review of program achievements.
71.       Basic communal potable water supply systems would be provided for
46 communities and for project area health posts and centers currently without
water. Public laundry and shower facilities would be installed in the health
stations and in 30 of the communities to be served. In most cases, water would
be supplied from wells equipped with small manual or windmill operated pumps.
72.       Vocational training centers to be constructed in 23 villages would
provide training in artisan crafts. It is envisaged that about 4,200 persons
would participate in the vocational training program during project execution.
Day care facilities would be included at some centers to enable greater
participation of women.
73.       A second phase study would be financed to prepare a possible follow-up
project. Water resource development, soil and land use, agronomy and forestry,
and marketing and socio-economic factors would be analyzed in the preparation
of a comprehensive development plan for the project area. Some 24 man/months of
international consultant services would be provided for this study. These and
other consultant services under the project are expected to cost US$8,000
per man/month.



- 18 -
Project Execution
74.       The establishment within ORDEPUNO of a Project Unit with overall
responsibility for project coordination would be a condition of the proposed
loan's effectiveness (Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
As a further condition of effectiveness, the Government would also enact a
decree establishing regulations for ORDEPUNO (Section 6.01(f) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The Project Unit, whose Director would report to the Chief
of ORDEPUNO, would itself provide farm and ranch extension, nutrition and
small enterprise development services. In addition, it would coordinate and
supervise the carrying out of project components that would be the responsi-
bility of other entities. A Project Unit Director acceptable to the Bank has
been appointed and participated in negotiations. Should the Director change,
his replacement's qualifications and experience would also be satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Project Unit
would have a separate budget through which all project activities, except the
agricultural credit component, would be financed. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, the Government would establish two project accounts. The first
would be managed by the Project Unit and would contain, initially, sufficient
funds to cover project expenses for three months. The second would be managed
by BAP and would cover the estimated total cost of the agricultural credit
component (US$8 million) (Sections 3.02(a), 3.03(a)(iii) and 6.01(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
75.       The construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation systems
and the forest plantation program would be carried out by the regional office
of the MAA. Training and research activities would be undertaken by CENCIRA
and INIA, respectively, and the BAP would provide farm credit. The regional
offices of the Ministries of Transportation and Communications, Health,
Education and Agriculture would carry out the road improvement, health/potable
water, vocational training and irrigation components, respectively (Schedule 6
of the draft Loan Agreement); they would be responsible for their maintenance
thereafter (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government,
through ORDEPUNO, would enter into agreements with the autonomous entities
(BAP, INIA and CENCIRA), which would cover the preparation and execution of
their work programs, procurement, financial arrangements, maintenance of
records and reporting. Draft agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, have
already been agreed to by the Government, BAP, INIA and CENCIRA. Execution of
the agreement with the BAP would be a condition of loan effectiveness and the
other two agreements would be signed within six months of loan signature, and
their execution would be a condition of disbursement for the respective
component (Sections 6.01(d) and 3.04 and Schedule 1 para. 4(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Also, within six months of this loan's signature, ORDEPUNO
would contract with Peru's Nutrition Institute to undertake the nutrition
impact studies referred to in para. 70 (Section 3.04 (a)(iii) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The remaining agencies, which are under the direct control
of the Chief of ORDEPUNO, would prepare annual operating plans setting out the
next year's work program. These would be consolidated by the Project Unit
into an annual project investment and operating budget proposal which would be
submitted to the Bank for review and approval not later than August 1 prior to
the start of each year (Section 3.06(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
76.       Two long-term experts with international experience would be con-
tracted to assist the Project Unit. One would be qualified in the execution
of multisectoral rural development projects and serve as advisor to the
Project Director for 36 months. The other would be hired for 24 months and
assist in establishing and operating training programs for extension agents
and farmers. In addition, internationally recruited short tr   consultants
would be hired to provide 44 man-months of assistance to the .roject Unit
staff in (i) the managerial and financial analysis of ARE operations;
(ii) planning, programming and budgeting; (iii) monitoring and evaluation; and
(iv) identifying and preparing small enterprise projects. All consultants,
including those for the second phase study, would be hired under terms and
conditions and with qualifications acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.05(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Appointment of the two long term consultants and of
the ARE consultant would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(e)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
77.       A project coordinating committee would be established to set project
policies and monitor execution of the project. This committee would meet at
least quarterly, would be chaired by the Chief of ORDEPUNO, and would include
representatives of (i) the entities involved in project execution; and (ii) the
AREs and individual farmers. The Project Director would serve as a non-voting
secretary to the committee (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
establishment of this committee in a manner satisfactory to the Bank would be
a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
78.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$27.3 million
(including taxes of US$0.1 million on civil works) of which US$12.1 million
(44 percent) are foreign costs. The proposed Bank loan of US$15.0 million,
representing 55 percent of total project costs, would cover the equivalent of
all foreign cost and US$2.9 million of local costs (see para 26 for the
local cost financing justification). The Government would provide counter-
part funds of US$11.6 million equivalent, or 42 percent of project costs, and
the beneficiaries would finance the equivalent of US$0.8 million, or three
percent of project costs.
79.       To help assure prompt initiation of the project, up to US$140,000
in retroactive financing would be provided to help finance costs incurred
after January 1, 1980 for initial Project Unit Expenses (including the training
of staff), completion of designs and preparation of procurement documents for
irrigation system civil works, and initiation of studies of the river flows at
the Cabanillas site where irrigation works would be rehabilitated under the
project (para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
On-Lending Arrangements
80.       On-farm investments and incremental production credit would be
provided by the project through BAP sub-loans to individual farmers, farmer
groups and AREs. BAP would continue to finance its ongoing short term credit
program in the area from its own resources, but incremental production credit
would be financed under the project. The BAP would grant sub-loans in Soles



- 20 -
on the basis of development plans and applications prepared with the assistance
of Project Unit extension agents. Where appropriate, loans to the AREs would
be conditioned on the carrying out of improvement programs in management and
financial administration. In accordance with present BAP procedures, sub-loans
for incremental production inputs would be for up to two years with six months
grace. The terms for on-farm investment credit would vary depending on the
type of investment but would be for a maximum of 12 years with between three
and five years of grace. Beneficiaries would contribute at least five percent
of costs for sub-loans of under US$5,000 equivalent and ten percent for larger
sub-loans, unless the BAP determines that for reasons of poverty the benefi-
ciary cannot afford to make the minimum contribution. In such a case the BAP
could lend up to 100 percent of the investment cost. Such subloans would not
exceed 10 percent of the investment subloans under the project. In order to
assure an equitable distribution of credit among the various categories of
farmers in the project area, subloans of over US$100,000 equivalent would not
exceed 15 percent of total loans and subloans of over US$5,000 equivalent
(entirely for the AREs) would not exceed 50 percent of total loans under the
project. The BAP Subsidiary Agreement with the Project Unit would provide
that subloans be made on the terms and conditions set forth in this and the
following paragraph (Section 3.03(a) and Schedule 7 of the draft Loan Agreement).
81.       The minimum interest rate on short-term and development subloans
would be the same as BAP currently charges--29 and 31 percent, respectively,
plus a two percent commission charge. As a promotional measure for minifun-
distas and small farmers who have generally not had experience with credit,
first subloans for production and investment of under US$500 equivalent may
bear an interest rate of 18 percent. BAP interest rates were increased
substantially in 1978 when inflation was about 75 percent. Inflation was
67 percent in 1979 and is currently projected to drop to about 45 percent
within the next two years. While the lending rates are presently negative in
real terms, if the Government's economic recovery program continues to reduce
inflation, they would become positive toward the end of the project execution
period. To the extent that there is credit subsidy in the interim period it
would go almost entirely to families with incomes under the relative poverty
level, many of whom are engaged in subsistence agriculture. BAP would peri-
odically review the lending rate in consultation with the Bank, taking account
of changes in the rate of inflation and capital market conditions (Section
3.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
82.       As noted in para. 51, in the past O&M charges collected from irrigation
systems' beneficiaries have fallen far short of the actual costs. This situation
is now changing. The MAA is beginning to enforce the water charge provisions
of the General Water Law.  In keeping with this policy, in the project area
the Government would: (a) no later than June 30, 1984 and at least every two
years thereafter, review and adjust the level and structure of water charges
so as to ensure that they cover full O&M costs and as much as practical of the
investment costs, taking into account inflation and the farmers' payment
capacity; (b) by June 30, 1984 and thereafter, return to the irrigation
districts fees equal to O&M costs; (c) staff and equip the irrigation district
as necessary to provide adequate maintenance for systems in the project area;



- 21 -
and (d) by March 31, 1984 complete a socioeconomic study, satisfactory to the
Bank, on beneficiary repayment capacity as a basis for establishing a reason-
able target for recovery of investment costs on the irrigation sub-projects
carried out under this project (Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
83.       In the case of the small-scale pumping schemes, a users' association
would be organized for each system. Participation agreements would be entered
into by the users' association and MAA prior to the construction of these
systems, based on a model acceptable to the Bank. The Government would, by
September 30, 1980 furnish this model agreement to the Bank (Section 3.07(a)
and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
84.       Cost recovery estimates are based on the assumptions that (a) farmers
would repay capital costs of the irrigation schemes over a fifty year period
without interest; and (b) that all irrigation O&M costs would be recovered.
On this basis, the average cost recovery index for the irrigation projects
is 44 percent.
Procurement and Disbursement
85.       Contracts for civil works whose costs are estimated to exceed
US$500,000 equivalent would be let in accordance with Bank guidelines for
international competitive bidding (ICB). Because of their small size, civil
works for less than US$500,000 but more than US$100,000 equivalent would be
let in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable
to the Bank. LCB is envisaged in the case of civil works under US$500,000
because international firms are not likely to be interested in relatively
small contracts scattered over such an isolated region and because local firms
have experience in such operations. Works that, because of their small scale
and dispersed nature, are not likely to attract even local contractors would
be carried out by force account. These would be limited to most road rehab-
ilitation works (with a total cost of approximately US$1.3 million) and minor
irrigation rehabilitation (with a total cost of about US$300,000). In the
rare cases where the cost of such works is more than US$100,000 equivalent,
prior Bank review would be required before force account proposals are approved
by the Project Unit.
86.       Contracts for equipment of over US$150,000 per package would be let
under ICB. Qualified local suppliers and those from Latin American Free Trade
Association and Cartagena Agreement member countries participating in inter-
national competitive bidding would be accorded a preference representing the
difference between the prevailing duty actually applicable and the duty appli-
cable to goods imported from non-member countries, or 15 percent on the c.i.f.
price, whichever is lower. Other contracts for equipment would normally be
grouped into lots of not less than US$50,000 each and would be procured by
LCB.
87.       Disbursements under the proposed loan are expected to take place
over a period of about five years, beginning in FY1981, and would be made
against: (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for vehicles, machinery and equipment; (ii) 80 percent of total



- 22 -
expenditures for civil works, including engineering and supervision; (iii) 80
percent of local expenditures for the salaries and operating costs of the
Project Unit and the second phase studies, and of the research and forest
plantation programs; (iv) 90 percent of cost of local training and 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for overseas training; and (v) 100 percent for consul-
tants and experts. For force account works and Project Unit operating expen-
ditures, disbursements would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures.
Project Benefits
88.       The proposed project would substantially improve living conditions
for about 29,500 poor rural families in the Juliaca micro-region. Increased
crop and livestock production of some 17,000 families would, at full develop-
ment, raise minifundista family net income from farm operations by 160 percent,
small farmer income by 117 percent, medium farmer income by 60 percent and ARE
income by over 100 percent. Also, labor demand on area ranches and farms
would increase by over 2,000 man-years. Given the income level from which
they are starting, however, most beneficiaries would remain below the relative
poverty level.
89.       There would be large improvements in productivity under the project.
Although land in crops and pasture would not be significantly expanded, yields
would increase through more and better use of improved seeds, fertilizer and
pesticides, planting of cultivated pastures and improved farming and ranching
practices. This would be supported by an efficient extension service, better
irrigation and transport infrastructure and timely provision of farm production
and investment credit. Improved health conditions should also promote improved
productivity. Crop and livestock output is expected to more than double in
most cases. Estimated yield increases have already been achieved by the more
efficient farmers in the area and should be attainable with the assistance of
project supported programs. The incremental net value per annum of crop
production at full project development for minifundistas and small farmers
would be US$2.5 million. For medium farmers and AREs, this net incremental
value would reach US$400,000 per year.
90.       The benefits of the physical and social infrastructure programs
are difficult to quantify but would improve living conditions for a substantial
part of the project area's population. The health and potable water supply
components are especially critical given the extent and nature of health
problems in the area. The vocational training and forest plantation programs
would provide additional sources of income for area residents.
91.       The project's economic rate of return (excluding second phase study
costs) is estimated at 27 percent with a shadow price for labor at 70 percent
of its financial cost. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the project would
still have an ERR of 12 percent (the estimated opportunity cost of capital
in Peru) with either benefits reduced by 37 percent, irrigation system,
on-farm investment and social infrastructure costs increased by 236 percent or
operating costs increased by 78 percent.
Project and Environmental Risks
92.       The technical risks related to the engineering and agronomic aspects
of the project are similar to those faced by other projects of this sort
and are acceptable. The executing agencies have experience in carrying out



- 23 -
the type of works planned and the feasibility of the proposed production
techniques and expected yields have already been demonstrated. There is a
risk that delays may occur because of the institutional and organizational
weaknesses of the public sector agencies and difficulties in retaining suffi-
cient qualified agricultural extension staff. To deal with these risks, the
project's size has been kept modest, a Project Unit with ad2rlte operational
control would be established and training and technical assiscance would be
made available to the Project Unit staff. Moreover, Bank staff would closely
supervise the project's execution.
93.       No environmental risks are anticipated with relation to the project,
which is expected to result in improved land and water resources management.
Fertilizers and agricultural chemicals, used with proper guidance, would
have minimal impact on the environment. Furthermore, the forest plantation
program would assist in soil conservation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
94.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,. Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
95.       The draft agreement conforms to the normal pattern for loans for
rural development projects. The main features of the Loan Agreement are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Special
conditions of loan effectiveness would be that (i) two project accounts
be established, one for BAP for the credit component and another for the
Project Unit for other components (para. 74); (ii) the Project Unit and
the project coordinating committee be established in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (paras. 74 and 77); (iii) long term consultants to advise the
Project Unit's Director and to establish and operate the Unit's training
programs as well as the consultant to advise on ARE management be appointed
(para. 76); (iv) a decree establishing regulations for ORDEPUNO be enacted
(para. 74); and (v) the Government and BAP enter into a Subsidiary Agreement
(para. 75). Special conditions of disbursement for the INIA and CENCIRA
components would be the execution of their agreements with ORDEPUNO governing
their implementation responsibilities (para. 75).
96.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
97.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachmen s
February 27, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -                                          A12XI
TASL  3A                                             Page  1  of  5
PERU -       IOCINL INDICATORS DATA 
RinERCP  ClOU.P5 (ADnfSD AIJjGES
LAND AMEA (TROUSAND SO Q-.)                PUIU                         - MS   UCE'4T ESTIMATE) -
rTAL           1255.2                                               SAME        SME      EY RCEU
ACUCULTURAL                       1960. ObST MUCCNT   GCOGCRPJIC   IPCOMC .    ICOQ5s
-              1960  lb   1970 lb ISTIMATE /b     CEGION /c  GROUP /d   CROUP /
MNM Pa CAPITA (USS)               250.0      420.0    740.0          1124.4    1097.7      1942.6
ENERGY CONSUEPTION PEU CAPITA
(ItIOGUIs oF CDAL EQUIVALENT)    445.0      619.0    642.0           943.1     730.7      1646.7
PoPuLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TPULATION KID-TEAR (MILLIONS)    10.2        13.5      16.4
UN POPULATION (pEREW  Of TOTAL) 46.3         57.4      62.8           59.3       49.0       51.2
POPUTATION PUROJCTIONS
POPULATION TX YR 2000 S O LLIONS)                    29.0
STATIO7ARY POPMLATION (MILLIONS)                     55.0
YMA STATIOARE POPUIATION IS UACHED                 2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                      8.0       11.0      13.0           23.5      44.6        28.2
PER SQ. IOt. AGCUCLURAZ. LAND    33.0      64.0      54.0           80.5      140.7      100.5
POPULATION AGE STUCTr  (PERCNT)
0-14 YES.                       46.2       45.0      43.9           40.9       41.3       35.4
15-64 YES.                       52.0       51.9      53.0           54.6      55.3        56.3
65 YnS. AND AJDVZ                 3.8        3.1       3.1            3.9        3.5        5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RlATS (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.6        2.9       2.8            2.4       2.4         1.7
UREIUI                           4'.7/      5.0       4.5            3.7       4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTR RATE (PER TROUSAND)    47.0      42.9      39.0           32.8      31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH LATE (PER THOUSAND)    19.0      14.7      12.0            8.5       9.2         9.1
CR0SS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.1/h      2.9       2.8            2.4       2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ArCEPtRS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF SIAMrD WOMEN)   ..         .1 ..                   7.7       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71100)       110.0      102.0      90.0           99.4     104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 97.0       99.0    100.0           107.0      105.0      120.8
PROTEINS (GRANS PER DAT)        50.0       61.5      61.7           60.4      64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANDIAL AND PULSE     25.0       24.0      25.3           28.3       23.5       31.3
CRILD (AGES 1-4) NDLTALITY RATE    28.0      20.0      16.0            6.7       8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.0      53.0      55.7           63.6      60.2        65.6
INFANT mORTALITY LATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           ..      122.0/f      ..           76.1      46.7        45.5
ACCESS To SAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..       35.0      47.0           63.4      60.8        69.4
JRBAN                             ..       58.0      72.0           79.5      75.7        85.1
RURAL                             *-        8.0      15.0           38.6      40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..       36.0       ..            58.8      46.0        70.1
UtRAN                             ..       52.0       ..            77.8      46.0        88.3
RURAL                             *-       16.0       ..            24.5      22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PPYSICIAN        2200.0/i   1920.0   1580.0          1841.9    2262.4      1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3620.07T   3200.0      ..           933.7    1195.4       765.0
POPUIATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          490.0/1    470.0    500.0           563.4     453.4       197.6
URBAN                             *-      410.0    340.0           279.4     253.1       260.2
RURAL                             *-     3450.0   1300.0          1140.9    2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSP:TAL BED         ..       19.0       ..            25.7      22.1        17.3
HOUSIlNG
AVERAGE SIZE OF WOUSEROLD
TOTAL                            4.9        5.5       4.9/1          5.0       5.3         4.7
URBAN                            4.8         *-       5.1/1          4.8       5.2         4.4
RURAL                            4.9         *-       4.77|          5.3       5.4         5.1
AVERArE 413ER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
IOTAL                            2.3        2.3       1.9/1          1.3       1.9         1.1
UR3AN                            2.0         ..       1.771          1.3       1.6         1.2
RtRLU                            2.7         ..       2.471          1.5       2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELEC-RICITY (PERCENT
OF SWELLINGS)
-OTAL                           26.0       32.1    .32.1/1          54.3      50.0        66.0
OTAN                            50.7                5423TT          30.1      71.7 3       5.1
RURBAL                           4.0         ..       2.77-1        14.2      17.3



- 25 -                                           ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  2fof  5
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFtECE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
PERU                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
OST RECENT      GOCGRAPHIC   INCOME       LNCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGIO7N /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRFtR1 Y:    TOTAL                83.0       107.0      110.0           107.3      102.5       101.7
MALE                 95.0       114.0     116.0            109.1      108.6       110.0
FEMALE               71.0        99.0     107.0            107.4       97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 15.0        30.0      49.0             40.5       33.5        51.2
MALE                 18.0        34.0      54.0             40.4       38.4        56.4
FEMALE               13.0        26.0      44.0.           39.0        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECNIDARY) 20.0         17.0      Z3.0             18.5       11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACRE RATIO
PRMRY                             34.0        40.0      40.0             37.1       35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                         12.0        23.0      23.0             17.9       22.9        25.3
ADt7LT LITEIRACY RATE (PERCENT)     61.0           ..     72.0             77.4       64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS Pt4 THOUSAND
POPULATION                         8.0        17.0      17.6            29.1        13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       101.0       134.0     131.0            172.1      122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0        29.0      32.0            67.9       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
MEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..       124.0      96.0             76.1       40.0        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..              4.2        3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR. FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3100.0      4300.0    4600.0
FEMAU. (PERCENT)                  21.0        20.7      21.9            21.5        25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERGEIF)             52.5        44.8      40.0            30.2        43.5        28.9
tNDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.6        20.1      20.0            23.8        21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.3        29.1      29.2             30.9       33.5        33.8
MALE                                49.2        45.8      45.3             47.3       48.0        51.3
FEMALE                              13.2        12.1      12.8             13.3       16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.5       1.6              1.3        1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENS OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.0/k        ..        ..            23.7        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.47k      61.01I      ..            58.7        52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.57k       1.97T       ..            2.9         3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF ROUSEROLDS    8.07r       7.07       ..             9.9        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERT INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR8AN                               ..          ..     235.0           265.6       270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     180.0           185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    293.0            396.3      282.5        550.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    200.0            308.1      248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION bELOW POVERTY
2RCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      49.0            35.2       20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            46.6       35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indirator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and che most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among che
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin AMerica & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediace Middle Incom (s551-1135 per capita. 1976);  /e  Upper
tiddle Income ($1136-2500 per capita. 1976);  If  1970-75;  L&  1956-61;  /h  1960-65;  /i  1964; /.  1962;
/k  Personal income within labor force;  /1  1972.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-26-
inmnm w aca inzs                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3 of S
Votes:  Although the date ar  dine  fro-        r.  gunerLly Judged the inst asthoitative and reliable, it should .3.. he noted that thay m   not be inter.-
tT?-iD. coaparble beo-n  of the lack of stsn-darld defiltiten   sd conepts use  bW dIfferent countries in co11eting the data. The data  -e  nonethless
useful to desribe orders of segitude, indisats trend, ad chaaterin  certain ajor differenees betwee  o-tri...
The ".3Jt1d4g    -avegj   for car  tdionto  ar  popultio-weighted g...tric  neen * eolsdiog the catr-   veI-. of the indicator end the sent popunted
o-mntYtc.rb7jihijM. tolako  daa,roup averege  of .11 indicators for CepItel  aclu. Oil  Aporters end of IndAoatorn of Aices. to Water end kcrtn
Di.p ..A1, Hssing, Tac-   Di.tribtuion an  Povety for other octosty grop. ar  popsatin--nigbted geetric  en   without encision of the ectr   vuln-  ad
the. _st poplated coutry.  Sinze. the co~mae of canns                    h  idotor  dM-"t  -  Etlshlflo  dt                aedi  no  ofe    aion .nis be eneclsed
in_eltingaeen_foeidctrtoeohr    hN,  naenami   sana   saeaaiu    femtCnnswe   ern   the ruIn.. ofse
idctrat s tie  p,   thcutry and ref erc* xrhA".
LAW ARMA (thu-n  nq.hk.)                                                                   A.oes  to   oeaDssu   nreto   oiain      oe,sb.a    oa 
Tota. e_rfac  are  o-prisiog 1und are  ed inlend waters.                               Ase   fpol  (tota, otn    tcrl  evdb   nr                           ipsla
Ufoiusl- ot' rewo  etinate of egiclu.lt l nra used t..rari]y                      p-rcotegn  of thir -epeotiv  populatio-s. mc-t. dieponal m   ihocisdc
or psesootly for crps, pnsturee,  -ket end kitoh   gerden  or to                         the colletion at dieposal, sith or  ithout treatat, of h-nor-te
lie fallow,                                                                              a   wate-water by eate-hone qete    or the us  of pit                   odeeea   n-atla
GNP FRCAP fALjWp) - liP per o-pita cetiatee  at curret arket pricee,                       Pcoo.i.tionsr   scia-  Psjnslatioo divided by outer of practicing pbyoIirin
oyocve--io usthod as World fluk Atlas (1976-7  bain                            i*flWSt      t i.i school at university leve.
l96o, 1970, nod 1978 data.                                                               22niakohn            Xhniqa Pwye   - PnPsslaton divided b7 enter of praticing ale
E1IGY CCNSUWPTIC3f Fi   APrITA - A,-,nI  ocs .ptc   of  orin1 ..                                         grd-i~~it.iiW      pratical aro,ed nnietentnuss
)ool. ndligite  ptrole,  atora.gao nod hydr-, se -erndgc                             osa   n       Woia d          -tta.obe.a   corl   Ppoplation  (total, cnn,
thesal electrict I in kilogen  of o..I equIaet- Per coita; i6ota                           od coral  dividedby thei  repe'tiv-          otr o  hospital bode awilnbls in
1970, nod 1976 data.                                                                       publio ad privategenral end speiuliced hostpital at rehbilitation caters.
Hcepitale      et Iisbanin  p.rnetly stuffed by at least  -c  physician
POPULATION ANt VITAL STATISTICS                                                               Isalats providing pricipaLly ou.todia1 car  ar  cot included.  uR-
Totalip=.tlaon, Edl-Year (a,illi.n..   An of July 1; 1960, 1970, nod                       hospitals, howevr, macdud  health nod  "i-oa  contsr  cot pecenently etaffed
I4f daaby_aM.eicie  (hot by a  odlal  -sistent,  urs,  ldoife, etc.) ebioh offer
Uri. iselalc) eret of total) - Otlo of urte  to total popclatioo;                          in-ptient nced cond proide a Ilitid range of ationi facilitie..
elffcreo   dfntions of urhn areoc ey affect o-u-atility of data                                    d AH o  INd>9p4t9p   - Total  onkebr of adenelone to or disohargee foe
ana  cctrien;1t716O, 1970, nod 1975 dais,                                           hosiitals  in idiUbthe oster of hyde.
Ponlt Io  Proj Itoc
Fbwl.t- 1.   -   2OW- Corret popoIlato   peojeotioce nrc ineed on              OUSING1
M  fital. population by uge and scnd the ir_notLlity nod fertility                  Averen  Sice of Hueod(cea   e   oshl)-ttl   rn.es  oa 
rIeeFrojectioc parentero for sortallty rates copieof threeAhushl  ceit  ofl  a  rupoPn'vdal   b  ohtr  liigqatr   o
irocl .o.eo..og lifr -opect-y at bihiticre               ithcu   cootrye              their  Inl  scale.  A hoarder or lodger my or en.y cot ie included i0 the
per -aplt. inocu  lre1, nod fesale life e-pct-ny etbilining at                        houehld for statistical p-ipones.
77.5yfears.  Thy parunters for fertility rate  LI.. hare three leol                 AcLerug  -ste   f   eoe          ro     total. urben  nod rura  - Ac-rug  sbhr
asecing declior In fertility accrding to joocu   ecel nod past                       ofprospr Lve          Ii albe,nd rura  ooupied c--etionI dwellings,
fall   olacirg perfore-c. tact c-oty Is tics amsigoed one of thes                     re....p-cti-ely.  D-eelingo  -olde noo_-peeaet  t-utures and  -occpted parts.
01c  =sinaticc- of notoli1ty nod fertility treed. for pvojetioo                     A-osn  to  Eletricity (Coroent of dwelllng  I- total, ur-bn  no  rura  -  Co--
P,rcos.vetiona  dwellngs  ith eletricIty is~ liog soa;rter  a. p-ervtngr of
statio..r. eooula1tioa - L. atatioonry ppolatioc there is oo grot                        tota, urban, and  -orl dwellings r-pecti-ly.
since tie birthro,to is equal to tIc deathrate, and als  the ape
otror tur  remis  coe t. This ie,   iteced.ony after fertility rates              EDUCATION
declive to the replacont level of unit Oct reproduction rate, when                  AdJuoted Ero -t Ration
ouch groertico of c-c rpolno it..lf ec-cly.  The etaticoor  pol.-                      Piyscol-total  nIv and feeds                   ;roen tota,I  eae and fe-al  -orol-
lationoio-casetiatvd do tic boie of the projnctd charateristics                          mt of alue  at the priusry leve  anpreoae  of resrtc    rnr
of tie pop,ultion to the year 2000, nod tie rate of droilne of fertility                 echool-ug  popultions; coerlly iloclde  childre  aped 6-11 Year  hot
rate to replacceect level,                                       a~~~tdjusted for differet 1eo9the of priunry eduontioc  forcoctriee tth
Yea citicc   cpuaion in reached - The year  h.o etttior-7 popolatioc                        cirero    education earoleent eq  exced 100 perort ci-e s-  popils
sloe has tea  rechd,r  bolos or ehove the official  ohoo1 oMe.
liqos1atio Dt..oity                                                                        -ecdr,eho     oa,ele and f.ine - Cw,ted  .cnl,o;uecosuary
Per on. be. - Eid-year popoation per oqoorckllonter (100 htenues) of                       eduaio   euie   tleast four yearn of approocd pri-no    i-ot-utios;
totalae                                                                                  prooiden general ccotioa1, or teacher training i-otr-tio.- for roppIo
Per qu. h;e. aicoltur1 land - Coepted no ain- foe  "gicultorl land                         usualy of 12 to 17 years of uge; corespond esce  goraoar             ..nr.lly
only.                                                                                    ecouded.
PopulatIo dae Stroture  por-et) - Childrco  (i-l4 yearn), ncrtig-nge                       Oonticoalcooast(retofeodro -toniali,tttoolrue
(15-61Y yern,6andretired (i5 Yenro nod o-r) no pertoentgee of  id-yar                     trohied, inutrial, or othe  progras which operte iodcpoadetly or n
popoatlon; 170, 1970,no  197  dta                                                          departeeta of ococdary iontituticce
Poanlatio  Growth tate (percent) - io       - Aco-L or-th ratet of total nld-              Neil-teaher ratio     rienry  no  acadr  - Ith   otudentt:enrolled i
no    oplti..s for 1950-60, 1956-70, an  1970-77.                                     p-inyndseodr   evl   iie  by o-ater  of tenohern io the corer-
Podtitn Growth 'tuto'ecet -utos - aua  goeti rate. of  rba                                   spccding 1-cl..
pouaioofr  156017-7,nd10-75.                                                      Adult literan ra r       rocat)!j1   -Literste adult,  nble to read and o-te) a
Cr.d   ItLth   t! (     th.. - iso    Ice binto. per thoussd of nil-                ap              f ot adltpopoatioc aged 15 ye-. nod oIe--
year Ppopotito; 1 *, 19 K, and 1977 data.
rude Deth tate  err thoonnod) - Anc-a deatho per thoocnd ci sid-yeur                  fmnUMPf 010
poplaton  170,1970, and 19177  ota                                                Pasnear Car (err thciesd -poslatioo) - Pa...enger cur  -oprise   otor cars
Groe. RPerodtios  tte- doora  o_bt- of dought-rueon                 ill tea                seating Leso than eight Pers..n.; ea-ldes ahuanoe, ihre-n nod nilitary
is her   ruei repr-ductior  rriod if thc e-perienorn preocot ng-                        cehiolen.
npecific fertility rates; u,uly flcr-ycor a-Meno  vodiog iv 1960,                     Radio He-eloro (owe tosd pcultio) - All types of reoi-rr  for radio
1910, nod 1975.                                                broadoasto ~~~to gecea...   li  perthounad of poplation; e-oldro  solicosed
fundy Plssoig -  cceoore.docol (tousad.)-eA-o  noheb o                        receiversiIn -ontrie and in year.  hen regiotratic   o f rudo n ets one  Is
-ocptor- of  irti-costro   detv    oer  -opieofntioanl 'f-aly                            offect; data for recen.t yenra my not bv cospa... ll   -ic  0  1  c ries
olanoioo progro.                                                                         abolioIed  ooing.
Pualy Plsosog -Ises (croetof ninrned.ocacn) -Per-etgr of earned                   CI t  eriers  per t       -dunn epoultion) - lii recei-rer for troodonut t, geor.-l
sonec  f chilfdb-iuing  nr  15_41 yearn   h. do  birtt-cooteo1 d-oice                     pbiic per thousad ppo1atIoc; cololden coltceoned TV r-i--roincoutri-n
to all acried cosr  to, can  pr grp.                                                     nod in  es a-  hen regitrut,io  of _i  rts canin effect.
ff01 AS 3070171CM                                              l5oose~~~~~cvr Circulat~ion (err thounand cotulatlon) - 0c, hS     oehecrulto
lod.7o  F7307Wod-tion per C.pital79O~0)-Idoo   e   npt                                     of  daldeealitrenenae'  dfined noperedica1 pbIl-otios
t' (196-71  00)- I.de.of per   pitvooted prineily to recording generi1 Iewo.  It i. consideerd to bv "dnlly'
nooa  pi-ductios of all food rodities. Peoduction e-c ld..en   dnd                       if itnppeareatlenot fou  tiun a ccek.
fee  an  1 00caendr  vsrmo.  IelIie   coerp"hne_godsClara Aco.aLl Attendance per Capita Ite   e ba     - haoed on the ounho  of tirketa
(eg  ogrno   otead of -ugor  eih   aedibly  ad coctaie otrient                  sold -during thy yea, inclding adu-lnloc  to d icc-ic cineaa  so   .bIlte
e..  ofes ad tea arcocluded).  Aggregate peoduction of eah -ctory                   coit..
is ta..ed cc nationa  arerge prod-cr price ovihte.
Per capita -ualy of oslorira     Ipeetof rcsuir-nete) - Coupted f-c                 LABOR FORCE
enerfl eqotnist of net food ouplico aailbhl. 10 coon.try pee capita                 Tota ta.   oo   thuad)-honnclyntieprc,loudnond
prday.  Acalilebl  nupplien  -ourise d-stic produotlon, nporte I.so                 foroce an   daulyed hut ecoluding hone..        e,  tdects, etc  Oefioiti..to
-spo-ts, nod ohegee Is stk.  Net suple  vcd  noised feed, seede,                       In raricu   ocatries are not comarble.
qsantities osed in food pro-nilg, and lonnes  in diotrihotion. Require                5i.(rd           -    -I.ualebsr forc  as peroentap  of toti labor fore
sects  coe.tiaitd by FAO bore on Pbysioigi-el oredot for norual                       =    Ip414nrJqupcea) - Iahor force In faming* foretry, hunting   d
articity nod health coede-i nA  -oir .Iinta1 teperatu-, tody oighta,                   rishing a. pr-etuge of total lahr fore..
nge nod coo dis~triu.t ios oIf ppoloti-n, nod n11icig 10 percet for                  r1ni, PY~rent) .- iLah- force is einlg, oo...t-otloo, sefacturing and
cast  a~t. i=orol  leelwtr at one as peroetape of total labor fore..
Per acis epplyof rtin lore per day) - Protein c-tist ofpr                       PurtolpurtinRat (ceo tt.)d-_total ale  sd fen     -  articipatIon or
-p~itn cr0 supply of food per dyp. Wet supply of food 1. de1ited asa tict   rasear t                         ye_    a   total   ife, at f-le  labor forc  an per
ahov.-  Requiroeta for all -ctr iec entabliehed by UDAt proide far a                   -etapee of total,  .le  end fea1e population of alt  S..n repetirsty;
uini  .sa allwance  f 610 gran  of total proteio per d.W and 20 gras of                i960. 1970, ad 1975 data.  These ar  ILO'. participti- rates reflcting
nise.l and polse protein, of shioh 10 U-a  should he ania. protei..                    4 ug-senirota       fteppltc,edlngte   rn.Afectae
Th esetiadardo or  lowe  than those of 75 grus  of total protein end                   oef _rentional eftapriess1.9ti     r.d                              f     .t-
23 gina  of nodal protein asanaeege for the  -Ied, proposed by PAO                  Be . ..    l.c .dg94oi  -  Mailo of poplation under 15 ad 65 end 00c  to
ini.  hr  Wrld rood  -ures.                                                          the   -o  force Iff ape grop of 15-64. ycer.
Per cesita protei or    l fc  oui.      nod de.e  - Pronds supply of food             L       R  mk
Child(assl~is triity   i. lce tounadr- Aesessn deaths pe  thoo-ad              Myew            X7ivt_e IMM   hoh ic oab a  kind) - Recived by richest
!,in ape grupi 14 years, to children in thin ngr grop; fo tss  decl-                     5  ecn,rihe             preet,poores t 20 percnn, un  pooret h0 percet
opn -rutri   data derived fr-m life Inure                                            of househods.
TN Aocisc   t  it(xaj- A-erug  cater of Y-or  of life                                 iOtididhiXii    neyIca  ovd(ie   e cpta) - aba en   oa 
rssgatbirth;l~O   190,nd 1977  dta,%. Abolte pownUp  n                                                       lve  is thattao lelblw    eAaia
la.fet ortality net. (see th-osat) - A-eol death. of infants nadr one                      sotritiea11y sdeqsute dint plu  essen..tial ann-food reqsirnsts is scit
poor of ap  Pee tisosusd live births.                  .                                  ffrdable.
Acess to Saf   Iae    ~et of copultis -  oa.uh.trrl-tiated RelativeterpIe   ee  ls   e   eia-re   n   ea 
nae enter supply ) issodee treated surfac  waters or _ntrstsd bst                        Personal inns of the co-t.p. lrbn level i. derived fro  the coral level
sneotatoated watsr  -hi an that fra Protected hereholes, sponge,                         wIth Mdj-stest fo hiGer cost of living in urenses
at senita7 wall.) no percetaps of their respective pePatiou. In                       Usidmainlw haaecerwaa,.eisen(oa.
-hsbe  ares a pulic fssntmna or eMtepoet lasted not sem  then
20   .tom' fr   a   -   my he considered an beIng within  mealsm
aCcess of that h-ss.  In cora  arsa  reaso-nable ens    -oda imiy
that the hou.-If. or ener  of thq houshold do not have to spat a                                                                 Scnoni   at mcml Asia hiwlon
dispreportionts sar  of the day in fetching the fenily.  _ eternes_o l  Analyis at Prajetinus B"spr%tt
degest 1979



H'N P                                        0.00 8e                       008 N8             010           N          fl X                             8   3   _ oN   8 v   0   N o  N q o8   8 H
N    C .          N0    IN    NO           ON        ON 3N 3NN bo I-O       -      NON          b N       O         ON           00s3:w.8 McEH 8   HO        NN      oD*800 N
*03,-W     '  o                         NW      NN          N 3NN 1' -t                                                         N5   N eNNN   '         2        >8o _a <<    
_ g g ~~NO                                          O     :H                               1 X                                              3| g   tHO  W   W   g   N N wO   NOO  CNNC  S
1= ~ ~~~  808= N                                                       NONO             2'    nqe :3a             t>                          3          O
u ~ ~       ~        ~        ~ ~ - -88                                                                       -1       0:|        
C.8                0                                     V                                                I'N N N O.:3;    IZ 
,, 8    0   8      8                                                                            8          2 8 28Sr                     ;u
e: W W H G]~~~~8 
' 0 0                                                                                                         8   2   
IsO                                                                                                          8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N O   s@PN                                                                                            r           W                   vO   AW\ -oCD4X   D0W0   WO'
NON                    N    W                     N  <I                      S                                                 O  D CWN    O   J  n  |   3  SO    'NION   WN C><W
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                                                     N ONN   NON 
Si   u  ooo                  8    'Cr8                     00 00              NcOOO,;     E 10 N]N-                                            .C0' C   OZ
.b   0\0 COC                                                                :                                                                              A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> c>9o - g  S  e !3,  x  e . g  q -     O                         NT< I                                     NO N N O  N           N        |r  rr 
N       O l  N O - s9                s   O N '   t t t D |tON o o v C 8 rA.N " O   _ 0 0 -   N '  0 0   N N O   O N   N  N      N  O O N - O N  O , 3   0    C        N
NON ~   ~    ~     ;rN.     ID                                  (lb N    Nr ;                  #            WN o0 oOX WNOONONONN
8H                                                                                                        r
8o   .N          < I.                 n8  ot or  -C8                                          NIs   N O<Nw    
IIk 
8  N
0(  J' ON  I N  r  O1 tO                              $0_ 000000000X   .                0
I    I..    I N    o          LO oi_            ONloNoO 0r0rNON  
~~~IN NN .0                                JS'                 NO                    O N N N
lOON ~  ~        ~       ~      ~      ~      | Nr Nr ON                      N N. IN  A Nx No N   I"   - 
O    00000 ~  ~        ~       ~       ~       | wN              o r8.         r NNoO,Nr              0o  NW _
O~~~~~ ~ ~  ~ 00I 00  NoO  IN    010N00< _l                                                                     ,
NIN     II                                                               N
081Xn      J O               NON1               00    00H0
0l N o   IN  |N      F~OOO                                                  1?  
N |                     .                                   .< |
.010    t  
N_I                                 0.                               0



-28-                                                                                                              P8(112 I 
ACTUAL                                         2862.2.      0.
AN..AlOF IA  '.10   OF P..Y  TA                    1972        1975        1974        197,        1971         19??         =1           19?79882           
... 1~~~~~~~~~~  -)              8          7, O                                   9                                            933~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~85  19:20~:
Aopooto (0l111'.oOoo 602)       1157.9      15-WA       ~~~~~~~~             ~ ~~~~~~122.  167.' 22.8  2157.48  2595    22.                                 55.                    5     35,
Aooo.ooo AoAo..oo )AoOA'.oN = -,       5A~~~~~~~~.0  5 2.8   -634.1      -1515.9    -83A          -556.6         352.1      1586.3                              1975.9                  - 858.7
'I., F-ol-  -ooAo ..oo                              1229       -109        -218.       .05 -I386.2 -1            26.14    -    78.       -994-25.4                                                  -2.120.9
07 06222 001 p..olAo 0210 10000    - ~~~~~~~52.0  -9.       -132        -1886      -2883o.                         17.1    -47.-   575.0                                               .726,1
021000 Ioooot,oot Oooooe           -  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   ~~~6.?     80.2    -  - 26.3  - 42.64   4.      61.4  -244.0                       -  833.0                  21.675.8
Not Ooooeot 01.20,0020                 ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~39.2  42.9   o1          09.        50           56.           56.0        94819.71.
ta D,-0Aooo   3ooo                              1.7      -191.6      .7.          is88     -128           -926.2       -191.9        5522                              203.6-,6.
Net02-0  -ooil  4.ooooN2.2                                     40.4       143.8       515.7      172.8         54.1          25.2        62.1                                30.4                     81.2
Not    _2OA  011  ..to                             88.o       667.1      108.        128.        164.6        o826.1         843.0      193.                               us8.                     3,3.
A000tOootAo,,                     - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~138.4  -301.9  -391_29.         95.1         -0.          -451        -520-  996.8                                                -1_13
Not 000000200                       1~~~~ ~~~~~~~          ~~~~~49.6  562.5  759.6  830.8  859.0  626.2        3587.6      941.                               2823                    2,919.8
AioNoloooetl                      20.1        ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~47.8  80.5  84.5  657.9  74.5          61.6        81.4                             1I1T.2                     30.
AlnootAootooo                     -  911~~~~~~~~~~          ~~ ~~.8  -  58.         47. - 56.  -  92  1 4    -  75.         58.12                          -180.                   -    33.4
lao 00000.200                    -  50.7         9.3        ~~~~ ~ ~~~             ~~~~.7  7  278 12.07 .      91.2   5.2                                       539                     6891
AtooN-oofo OooNooA                     25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.7  -124.  213.5  -16.      -551.0.        97.5       -75.5           128I
AlO    optl- tN                                      84.8     -91.6        -90.5       -15.6         0            0         -52.        50.0                                    0
Ohooooio800oroo 9---ioor,ooo) W  -  70.4  - 15.5  -281.1    550.1      520.0        So?.?       - 82.0      -2242.0                           -1,270.6                 -  288.8~O _42.  -1,270.
lovel olA,oe,oe (08 ,oO of obo p-06)   4/ 2.5          4115.6       699.2       i65.i    -359.5        -595.0       -652          9.0       -7,255.6                                          0825.
112002270 52.0                                      19750       1973        19?'.       1975       1976        3957           1978.       5f           598           1985       17.6         i.o        1976-05           15 
0002                                55.1        85.~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~               ~~~~~~      ~~~~1 96.4  165.5  217.3  183.4  162.  196.1  224.9   496.6         32.7    -13.8           17.3             6.8            6.5
ANI..o o000o000 gooAo         13.9        05.5        11.4         8o.5      126.1        145.1          89.o       160.7        199.2        444.2        65.9      -  15.9 15.9   25.57554466o
0o0- 0l.-, old   o   o0o10035.7                                  411         99.4       267?.1     206          268.9          35.0         0             0         368.8         62.6     -63.4          4.0             100             5.0
Ooloooodoooo 00000                 554.6        55~~~ ~~~~~~~        ~    ~~~~9.6  564o.1  962.8  45.8  624.9  532.7      519.9        894.2        1950.1        i5.8     - 5.9          20.4            23.2           26.5
AopAto'. 00020                        ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~197.4  917.7  069.  757.01  675.7  468.6        458.4       678.9        863.9        2213.9        56.0     - 71.6         25.2      ~      154           30.2
Adjooooooto 010  00-00002000 000            151.7       150.8       638.5       i6.i        2 16.5       079.1        -321.4       3D0.5        531.?        455.2         9.3         21.8         5.8            15.6            6.5
folol 00020 91.o.t.)                812.0     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1052.9  1908.9  230.422        .0 26.          1599.8      259.9        21.          5950.7        26.8     -  12.5        2068.309
Ooo-Oootooooooiooo                     290~~~~~~~~~~~'.9  560.1  555.'.    651.9      520.         550.1         4696        36.          6923         1408.5        16.1     - 5.5          17.8            19.            19.1 
TooFod  cdooOoo-oo.o                            1102.9      1OD0        26.5        52.        262.0        264.           269.64    26216.2       323.6.        5359.2        24.2,       11.2        19.9           10.0.          199.
8Citoo-)                                            719.        130.7       -21.8       155.8      177.5        159.2         191.6       27.4         212.8         341.5      -5.2           4.0         8.6             8.4            3.5
Oolloo                                 .~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~                 ~~~~~~9.1  656  o  5.  101.  19.       16.0        24.9         138.6        95.,          19.8        29.0         ,.6             9.20.
Atboo oooiooltofol goodo  198.1    25.7        577.1       585.8      21.0        156.8         158.2       243.6        386.6        569.0          0.5      - 11.8        20.1             8.5            6.168  569.0   -.
Ooppoo                         i88.i        325.0       591.8~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~       ~~~~~       ~ 155.  227.0  992.5  4088.2  686.5  518.  1451 4.8   34.2        202             18.4           15.8
61.2  79.5      ~~~~~1409     o65       1.1           172.5        69          941          17.         19.8          24.1        19.4        35.2             8.            2.3
Otbor ,ioooolo                        ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~189.5  225.0  282 .9  25.5 8.6    535.7         297.        33.          434.0         719.4        13.9       -3.4         155             15.7            7.7
-ooooc   rdo  o   ,io20                          .         15.0        282         37.5       5.            522          159.        67.855.                  13.5          62          8.y         33.               2.4           14.3
Mcoooaotoood 00020                     3~~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~2.7I  65.2  156.5  105.2      153.0        22.           55.          2.           8.          6415.3       47. 5.5                  25.8            10.3           15.6
Totol 010945.0                                                  111.8      175.1'2     1290.6    3139.5        1725.6        194o.2      3127.3       463a.0       8166.6          9.5        19.5        22.8            80.7           87.s
90-foto  1e3oo20.                                                5.0        51.          385.5     58~ls        412.2         159.3       5.8.3        650.66       1168.5        16.5         9.2        11.3            19.3           12.5
Toto                            ... 02 .fot0  0000  1152.9     1347.2      1820.       1671.       1710.       257.          2399.5      26412.5      532.         935.           10.9        15.3        214              92            .0
002                                 0          ~~~~ ~ ~~~~          ~    ~ ~~~~~~~             ~~~~~~~49.0  26.0  7  174.1  60.                    92          22           15           9515 1274                                  22M
0006                           7           0           0            0         0            0         8102100 0210 1082-80210 029220 2603 (Oiobcoaod 580,) ~~~ 0    ~ Dn MDWN~-  F~   I'    (Dib-- ~1
Aobcr OllOOiAONOoo..                    7     ~     ~~~~       ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ 7.8  25.9  4..0  115.4   42 .1
Coooooaaolo                           226~~ ~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~.1  758.7  5541.  271.5  645.1  119.29     Soa.2Oototeodto  (00  -ad
Ao2OAooo                              ~~~~ ~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~85.4  215.  1588    8 5.3 8  139.1  1402   Of ot   04) 28.2                                  1131.5      2213.       I98.            5689.5         4659.2       5518.9
0102oioA OtoOiNol'.ooo      11.2        656.1       580.~       152.9       7388         170.7       Oottcdiog 0020082008                   1538.2      2542.3 334529 9            12.6          5554.2         6344.7       7175.
Ooodo                    0           0            0           0          0            1.3       Pot2Ao Debt Ooroite                   - 102.4      -398.1      .431.5      .436.1           -454.4         -651.6       -82.0 8,  -39-~  .31:  -431  -54:4-65:6  -00.
Octal 00613 loots                      olO~~~~~~~~~~~~~44.7  1248.7  1910.4  855.2   1862.5       1998.1                                                 52oot-   60  - 93.1   -13.2       -866            -98.8           -M6.         -321.0
200008(21bli. Debt)
(0250-22  12T  Diob-oe   oo                                              20t04   1  fDl  1  1978
Aoo..ol  Peooooo                     Dot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t O,-i-o RoNDo 958  36b)  15.6     29.5        23.6         26.0            26.0,          30.5         33.3
20,5.                                                   ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~185.6  -37W  582  000/20                               7.:43                    3.5         3.2             3.3            s.i          5.9
Book 21000                                           185.6         5.2                                Debt 2eooio./Gooeocaeot Itooaooo         15.5        28.9        24.4        20.2 42b.9                     94.324 4w.o~.q  3:?  50.
oto  0'Aioool2239                                                                         4.
ScoolAeoo                                                682.1        12.1                               lot. oo T38a57210/3o0a1 22~~~~~~~~17:4  1  5.0        6.5         5.1         6.2             5.4             5.3          6.4
02020002 Ooolitooaooc                                  2~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~152.6  79.0            Total 02b6  Ao-ioo/Tot  20               17.4        25.8        19.5        14.5            12.3           14.0         15.9
Ot'.oo 2115 Doll                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5358.2                         Dioe 02/00.porto (2i01. 1120       25.'.       45.5        43. a       35.5             43.5           38.1         41.9
0.0t 00oOo0po         1.2. 0221           8.8        19.2        26.5          1.             248            1 4.8         3.2
8o1Taaf./oo  Di.fro ...at                34.9        40.4         80.0       599. 6           50.0           36.0          577
EakGoo  t6/ooa00                         3.5         13          0.8          1.4             2.9            2.           2.
200020/992                   ~~~~~ ~         ~~     ~~12.5   9.2  6.0 4.6          4.0            3.5           3.7
0/  42)01100 Ooo fooloooa Of 20y00011 0070001 -0000 20 ooloocoolog.                    000058000 990/1970                        12.5         9.2         6.0         4.6             o.0            3.5          3.7b  4  4  2  4 3  3:
10020000 02 0155.6 oAlOiOo  of polooto 00000001 2021 0000000004 ty'.Oaloto.oteoot.  0060 Dett 2.roio./2.88 Ocooio,        8.6         4.1         4.1         4.2 4           2.343.4                      2.8
Ttoo  20200o02oooA'.ltooltoltt  l  sootoooltl  Soo 0  '01002polt  0. 2000  00toe-00                       Bec 000  Dbt .-lo-0obNOaoAo                 .6         .1          4.4423033.62.
o.ooo-ootOot 0i.ot'..oooO lobDL  oy 0 10o  200, 0.0o.Odo   ioo   tc t tte bt-to  of



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at January 31, 1980)
--- US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                          (less cancellations)
Number   Year            Borrower             Purpose          Bank     Undisbursed
25 loans fully disbursed                                      268.2
949      1973       Republic of Peru         Education         24.0         14.4
1025     1974       Republic of Peru         Roads            26.0           0.9
1196     1976       Republic of Peru         Transport        76.5         62.4
1215     1976       Republic of Peru         Power             36.0         18.2
1281     1976       CENTROMIN                Mining           40.0         34.6
1283     1976       Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.       21.6          17.7
1358     1977       COFIDE                   Industry         35.0         24.9
1403     1977       Republic of Peru         Agriculture      25.0         25.0
S-11     1978       Republic of Peru         Preinvestment    8.8            7.2
1693     1979       Republic of Peru         Program Loan   115.0          73.8
Total                                                   676.1 1/    279.1
of which has been repaid                              145.2
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                            18.3
of which had been repaid             18.3             _
Total now held by Bank 2/                               530.9
Total undisbursed                                                    279.1
1/   Does not include the US$56 million loan Peru Irrigation Rehabilitation Loan
which has not yet become effective.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1980)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960       Industrias Reunidas, S.A.         Home Appliances  0.3                0.3
1960       Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks            0.3              0.3
1960       Durisol del Peru, S.A.            Building
Materials         0.3              0.3
1960;1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers         4.1              4.1
1962;1968  Cemento Andino. S.A.              Cement            2.2      0.2      2.4
1964;1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo         Cement            1.1      0.5      1.6
1975       Southern Peru Copper Corp.        Mining           15.0              15.0
1978       Cia. de Minas Buenaventura        Mining            2.0      0.5      2.5
1980       Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.             Mining             2.7     0.5      3.2
Total gross commitments                             28.0      1.7    29.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            12.1     0.4    12.5
Total commitments now held by IFC                   15.9     1.3    17.2
Total undisbursed                                    2.7     0.5      3.2



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 949-PE: Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about
40 months behind schedule. In the first 3-1/2 years after effectiveness,
there was little progress owing to delays in establishing and staffing the
project unit, weaknesses in the unit itself and a long delay in adopting the
educational reform which was to determine curricula. This last difficulty was
resolved with the reform's implementation in 1977, but project execution is
still being hampered by weaknesses in the project unit and cumbersome bureau-
cratic procedures. In order to resolve these problems, the project has been
modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank disbursement percentage and
improve administrative procedures (see President's memorandum R79-59 of
March 27, 1979). As a result, the pace of project execution has improved
noticeably in recent months and disbursements now stand at about US$9.6 million.
Loan 1025-PE: Sixth Highway Project; US$25.0 million Loan of July 1, 1974;
Effective Date: August 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Loan 1025-PE finances improvement of the Lima-Pucallpa highway which
connects the Amazon basin to the Pacific Coast.  In view of the unusually
difficult terrain and limited government implementation capacity, the works
was divided into two stages which are financed by separate loans, 1025-PE and
1196-PE (see below). Because of initial delays and substantial cost increases,
the scope of the project was reduced in February 1978 (see President's Memo-
randum R78-360 of February 17, 1978) and the Closing Date postponed. Construc-
tion is now well advanced and should be completed early this year.
Loan 1196-PE: Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27. 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project's river ports component has progressed slowly because
of technical problems which delayed completion of design, but it is now under
construction although with some cost increases. There have been serious
delays in contracting for civil works under the road component because of
slow procedures and limited government implementation capacity. These
problems now appear to be largely overcome and construction is beginning on
most project components. The project has been modified so as to increase the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
financing for urgently needed road maintenance and eliminate improvement of
those road sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time
(see President's memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE: Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20. 1979;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of the
recent economic difficulties, as well as procurement problems, have delayed
the project's power distribution component and completion is expected
about a year behind schedule. Serious delays were also experienced in
getting the technical assistance program of the loan underway; however, some
consultants have now been retained, and with strong support promised by newly
appointed officials in the Ministry of Energy it is expected that the program
will begin to progress normally in the near future. Because of the delays,
the closing date has been extended.
Loan 1283-PE: Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, have delayed the
project by about one year. Project execution has now begun and its pace
is expected to pick up this year, as most design work has been completed.
Because of past delays, however, postponement of the closing date is now
being considered.
Loan 1281-PE: CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6
1976; Effective Date:  May 24, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component, which the IDB is co-
financing with the Bank and which amounts to about 90 percent of total project
costs, has been delayed by about two years because of the lack of local counter-
part funds. The Government is now proceeding with the project with support
from a supplementary IDB loan which will help cover part of the financing
shortfall. Engineering and procurment acitvities on this part of the
project have been initiated. Construction of the mine-water treatment
plant has also experienced some delays but is now advancing satisfactorily.
Loan 1358-PE: Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of Janaury 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment
and to lower than anticipated demand for the loan. In view of this, the
Borrower--the National Development Bank (COFIDE)--has agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions,



- 33 
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
which would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing.
The initial response has been encouraging and the credit line is now
60 percent committed, with full commitment expected by mid-FY1980.
Loan 1403-PE:  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 milhon Loan of
May 20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
DEPERTC, the executing agency, has completed the design for civil
works in two of the six valleys where irrigation systems are to be improved
and construction has started. The project's implementation is behind schedule
but is expected to catch up over the next 12-18 months as construction
proceeds.
Loan S-11:      Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31. 1981.
Consultant's studies have commenced and are proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1693-PE: Program Loan; US$115 million Loan of May 17, 1979; Effective
Date: May 24, 1979; Closing Date: July 17, 1980.
The economic recovery program supported by the program loan is pro-
ceeding in a generally satisfactory manner. Because of better than expected
export performance, Peru' foreign exchange constraint has relaxed resulting in
a lag in disbursements of the program loan. Disbursements began to pick-tp
markedly in September 1979 and stood at US$41.2 million as of February 4, 1980.
Loan 1771-PE: Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation; US$56 million Loan of
February 4, 1980; Effective Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This loan was signed recently. The conditions of effectiveness for
the loan are in the process of being satisfied.



- 34 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
PUNO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: Fifteen months.
(b)  Project prepared by:  Executing Agencies under supervision of MAA
and FAO/CP consultants.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank and first Bank mission to consider
project: June 1977.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  May 27, 1979.
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:  February 12, 1980.
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  June 1980.
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
It has been agreed that:
(a)  Special conditions of effectiveness would be (i) the establish-
ment of a Project Unit within ORDEPUNO and a project coordinating
committee in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 74 and 77);
(ii) the establishment, by the Government, of two project accounts,
one to be managed by BAP, for agricultural credit and one to be
managed by the Project Unit for other project components (para. 74);
(iii) the appointment of two long term consultants to assist the
Project Unit and of a consultant to assist local AREs (pata. 76);
(iv) the signing by ORDEPUNO and BAP of a satisfactory Subsidiary
Agreement (para. 75); and (v) the enactment of a decree establishing
regulations for ORDEPUNO (para. 74).



- 35 _                          ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) No appointment would be made to the position of Project Director
unless the candidate's experience and qualifications were satis-
factory to the Bank (para. 74);
(c) I hin six months of loan signature the Government, through ORDEPUNO,
would contract with CENCIRA, INIA and the Nuitution Institute for
the execution of the project components to be carried out by these
entities; the execution of the INIA, and CENCIRA contracts would be
a condition of disbursement for these components (para. 75).
(d) The Project Unit would consolidate the annual operating plans of the
other participating agencies and submit to the Bank for approval not
later than August 1 of each year an annual investment and operating
budget proposal (para. 75).
(e) Prior to the construction of small-scale pump irrigation systems
under the project, Participation Agreements would be entered into
by the users' associations and the MAA based on a model agreement
acceptable to the Bank. The Government would furnish the Bank
with this model agreement by September 30, 1980 (para. 83).
(f) By June 30, 1984, and at least every two years thereafter, the
Government would review and adjust as required the level and
structure of water charges to ensure that they cover full O&M
costs and as much as practical of investment costs. Fees
sufficient to cover all O&M costs would be returned to the
irrigation district, the district would be staffed and equipped
so as to provide adequate maintenance of the systems, and a socio-
economic study would be prepared by March 31, 1984 to establish
appropriate charges for recovery of investment costs in irrigation
subprojects (para. 82). The Government would cause all roads and
facilities, including irrigation works, rehabilitated or constructed
under the project, to be adequately maintained (para. 75).
(g) Subloans for incremental production inputs would have repayment
periods not exceeding two years, including a grace period of not
more than six months, and would bear a minimum annual interest rate
of 29 percent plus a two percent commission charge. The terms
for all farm investment credit would be a maximum of 12 years,
including between three and five years of grace, at a minimum annual
interest rate of 31 percent plus a two percent commission charge.
As an exception to these minimum rates, first production and invest-
ment subloans for small farmers of under US$500 equivalent may bear
an interest rate of 18 percent. The Government would periodically
review the lending rate in consultation with the Bank, taking into
account changes in the rate of inflation and capital market conditions
(paras. 80 and 81).






IBRD 14684
7tIj            /i       //                                               41 T      c.       ,   c    '   MAc                        Tcu7 c5o                                   J                                                      NOVEMBER 1909
g z ass9g \ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P E R U
*    Aff(                                                                                                           o'  P X a   ,Chvcarosl     ) ",                        PUNO  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SBuenOVEsrc  1 \                                                                                                                                                       I (  \   t  XEst=cl2n de PuCorr  >   ,)!  K tOMETERS 0 VI  20  30
'P,c r |EutociunX do usgnrlugodePucuro    j/ j                           MILES                                                   2D
A~~~~~A
c u z c 0              \
%~~~~~ A'                                                                                                         ) >-XJc%j%w=   <fHssn
a c>c \. Ctchosolo <,<, _ Q D 0 11> Nspst 9 CpilonrM .XN pOg ~~g
1~~~~~OcE~ -                                                                                   ot' / .    ,,.Curu .'<.f   ,X
)~~~~  ~ ~~~~~ -2                                                                     ,                    N Ne ouc ,o uy \   t/    &t~~~       O2%b<
<~~~~~~~~~0 0                    >            t            t           AMPA 
i/           o ~           -       s        Canclosolo        t7 h'  ucccu.o                                                 i.          0
OdW.                                                                                                                            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 1cclDoI
P~~~~~~~~~~~ z                                                                                        Cc huXo                                                                UO                      000 _
Io                                                 L   c  c c:                                           Y-ALuwtoS                                                                                                     9
k eE leg tc<+VX,4   >            }  ~~~~~~~Hca,tcro 
-   I  k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAf
I~ ~  ~    ~ ~~ LGO    -                           />&,              CotVPOJC CyONNS                                                                                     oeduodt u
Collcoofuoco~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,4;:1-
wy   /   8    E:   /   /   \             /                          --    #l   Proiect unit alfi~~  ~     ~ ~~~~~                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~c Numbe  H-t prpoe comnT                           C  Aisi  C\
ONTO  /~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AATN
t~~~~                      /                TaAsol PN J    / ^                                       3 RschLt ent r                     potkl           0oe  ytm   Ri       itilbudre
A RE                                Q U I PA UA
0  ~~~~~~~~~~~'nAE~~~~~~~~~~~ 05  7        -  -        ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         T   dlc~    - --      -- -
3t & o'4                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Pruec ae  boundary  ot Hlopitol          Grove  -icfucd muds
P,-    P   ili           I      +  He. thi c-dI-                   --  Dint truElks
000 1000 /  r                                                             -c--c-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Feeder, rods gracesufaced)   r1 H-olh posts  5----  Rouro-sin
O  /                                          Zc-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c-'       c-~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Dirt ftraks         cti Potable -uter system-   ~           Rivrs lakes
c-. U Project uni offices        4  Number of pruoused cur-utly    54 Airstiri
0S   Resarh cetar-                    potable soe system  veirin         Disticbudare
1au,u                 "N  ____ 9/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[   Vunattunus train'iog cener                        tbe dio.triri---- Dpartrn-v bou-dary
004cM   N"asss       AAceoun,.,           ~~~MOQ U E GUA                                                                                                                         0



