Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5341
 
Project Name 
Second Economic Governance Reform Grant (EGRG II) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%), private sector development 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P114937 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
January 18, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 3, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 27, 2010 
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Guinea-Bissau is a small country in West Africa with an estimated 1.5 million inhabitants and a 
GNI per capita of US$280 (in 2009 as per the Bank’s Atlas methodology). 
The population is young 
–
about 42 percent is under 14 years of age – and has been growing fast, at an average rate of 2.2 percent in 
recent years. The large share of the young and the high population growth rate present a set of 
considerable challenges. Every year, the already weak education sector must accommodate an increasing 
number of new students, while growing cohorts of working age fuel high unemployment rates: 
unemployment was estimated at 12.5 percent nationwide in 2006, with a rate of about 19.5 percent in the 
capital city of Bissau. 
The impact of the 1998-99 conflict, subsequent political instability and poor economic performance 
over the last few years have contributed to high rates of poverty.
 Guinea-Bissau is one of the world’s 
poorest countries. It ranked 173st out of 182 countries on the 2009 UNDP Human Development Index, 
while the Human Poverty Index places the country on rank 107 of 135 countries. Poverty is widespread, 
with a higher incidence in rural areas. At the household level, 66 percent of the population was living in 
poverty in 2006, with 22 percent living in extreme poverty.
1
2
About 80 percent of the poor live in rural 
areas and practice subsistence agriculture. Poverty remains lower in urban than in rural areas, but urban 
households are becoming more vulnerable to particular shocks, such as the recent food and energy price 
increases, because, unlike rural populations, they cannot survive on subsistence agriculture. According to 
results from the 2005 IPSA survey, more than 90 percent of urban families live essentially from activities 
in the informal sector, or of a mix of informal and formal, mainly public sector, activities. 
 
II. 
Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed operation of SDR __ million (US$4 million equivalent) is the second of a 
programmatic series of two Economic Governance Reform Grants (EGRGs) for the Republic of 
Guinea-Bissau.
 The main development objectives of the proposed grant are to: (i) promote efficiency, 
transparency and accountability in the use of public resources through improved public financial 
1
World Bank: Integrated Poverty and Social Assessment (IPSA), Vol. II, Conflict, Livelihoods and Poverty in Guinea-Bissau; 
May 2006. 
2
The incidence of poverty was measured by the headcount poverty index. The poor represent the share of the population with 
levels of consumption per equivalent adult below a purchasing power parity adjusted at US$2 per day. 
Page  2
management (PFM); and (ii) foster private sector development mainly through the development of a 
modern legal framework for private investment and improvements in the business environment. The 
development objectives are consistent with pillars 1 (good governance, macroeconomic stability, public 
administration reform), and 2 (private sector-
led growth) of the government’s national development 
program outlined in its PRSP.
 
The grant is thus an integral part of IDA’s Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for 
Guinea-Bissau for FY2009/10 discussed by the Board in June 2009. 
 
III. 
Preliminary Description 
 
The scope of the proposed operation is selective, covering two reform domains.
 
Capacity constraints 
and political fragility call for a focused and gradual reform approach.  The PFM plank aims at 
consolidating the setting up of a modern legal framework for public financial management that is 
consistent with West-African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) standards, and promoting 
compliance with this legal framework through systems, controls and operational reforms. The Private 
Sector Development (PSD) plank aims at consolidating the setting up of a modern legal framework for 
private investment and simplifying business procedures.  Both PFM and PSD reforms are needed jointly 
to restore macroeconomic stability, accelerate growth, improve the effective use of public resources for 
basic service delivery and increase the country’s absorption capacity for external resources.  The design 
of the reform program builds on analytical work in these two areas and leverages ongoing activities 
supported by other IDA-funded instruments, including the SPF funded grant and the IDA Private Sector 
Rehabilitation and Development Project (PSRDP).  The operation also complements support provided by 
the EU, the IMF, and other donors in related critical areas.
 
IV. 
Environment Aspects 
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed EGRG II, which are mainly regulatory and 
institutional, are not likely to have significant positive or 
negative impacts on the country’s 
environment, forests and other natural resources.  
The priority environment issues in the country 
include depletion of fish resources and risks associated with potential future mining development projects. 
The PFM and PSD reforms supported by the proposed operation are unlikely to significantly exacerbate 
these problems. 
 
V. 
Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
4 
 Total 
4 
 
VI. 
Contact point 
 
Contact: Alain W. D'Hoore 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5352+4155 / 221-33-859-4155 
Email: adhoore@worldbank.org 
Location: Dakar, Senegal (IBRD) 
 
