Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16537-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 14, 1998
Human Development Sector
Albania and Croatia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



URRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Albanian Leke (LK)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Albanian Leke per US$)
March 1998 US$ 1.00 -LK 159
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 3 I
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRKONYMS
CEE            Central and Eastern Europe
CEM            Country Economic Memorandum
CIF            Cost Insurance Freight
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EME            Established Market Economies
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GOI           Government of Italy
GP             General Practitioners
HIF            Health Insurance Fund
HII            Health Insurance Institute
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICU            Intensive Care Unit
IDA            International Development Agency
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IS            International Shopping
LS             Local Shopping
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOH           Ministry of Health and Environment
NIPH          National Institute of Public Health
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PHC            Primary Health Care
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
RHA            Regional Health Authority
RHMT           Regional Health Management Team
RMB            Regional Management Board
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
TOR            Terms of Reference
UKKHF          United Kingdom Know How Fund
UNFPA          United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
WHO           World Health Organization
Vice President:                 Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director:               Arntraud Hartmann, ECC02
Sector Director:                James Christopher Lovelace, ECSHD
Staff Member:                   Olusoji Adeyi, ECSHD



i.
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ................................................................i
1.   INTRODUCTION ...............................................................1
A. Country/Sector Background ................................................................1
B. The Government's Sector Reform  and Development Strategy ................................4
C. Role of the International Donor Community ...........................................................7
D. Rationale for Bank's Involvement ...............................................................9
2.  THE PROJECT ..............................................................                                           12
A. Project Objectives and Components ..............................................................              12
B. Project Description ..............................................................                          12
C. Enviromnental Impact ..............................................................                         15
3. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ... 16
A. Introduction ..............................................................                                  16
B. Project Cost ..............................................................                                 16
C. Project Financing ..............................................................                            18
D. Project Management and Implementation ............................................................. 18
E. Project Procurement Arrangements ...............................................................              19
F. Disbursements ...............................................................                               20
G. Project Audit Reporting and Evaluation .............................................................. 20
H. Status of Preparation ..............................................................                        21
This report is based on the findings of World Bank missions which visited Albania between December 1996 and
November 1997. The missions were comprised of Guy Ellena (formerly Senior Health Economist, ECSHD and Task
Manager for the early stages of the Project), Olusoji Adeyi (Health Specialist, ECSHD), Virginia H. Jackson
(Operations Officer, ECSHD), Besim Nuri (Project Officer, ECCAL), and Ross Pavis (Program Assistant, ECSHD).
Elira Sakiqi (formerly Project Officer, ECCAL) worked with the team throughout the process. Dena Ringold
(Research Assistant, ECSHD) contributed to the statistical profiles and the sections on project benefits. Staff
Member/Task Manager: Olusoji Adeyi (ECSHD); Sector Leader: Chris Lovelace (ECSHD); Albania Country
Director: Arntraud Hartmann (ECSAL); Peer Reviewers: Alexandre Abrantes (LASHD), Verdon Staines (EMTHR).



iii
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents (Continued)
4. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS ..............................................  22
A. Project Justification and Benefits ..............................................  22
B. Project Risks ..............................................             24
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .                      .......................................... 25
ANNEX 1: Project Implementation Plan
Appendix 1: Implementation Schedule
Appendix 2: Cost Tables
Appendix 3: List of Medical Equipment to be Procured
Appendix 4: Implementation Responsibilities/Resource Requirements
ANNEX 2: Tirana Regional Health Authority: Concept and Responsibilities
ANNEX 3: Letter of Intention from Ministry of Health
ANNEX 4: Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection: Organizational Chart
ANNEX 5: Economic Analysis and Strategy Matrix
ANNEX 6: Health Sector Strategy Note
MAP: IBRD-28467



iv
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
BORROWER:         Republic of Albania
BENEFICIARIES:  Ministry of Health and Environment (MOH)
Health Insurance Institute (HII)
Selected primary health care centers and polyclinics
Tirana Hospital
Health care providers in Tirana Region
The population of Tirana Region
CREDIT AMOUNT: SDR 12.6 million (US$17.0 million equivalent)
TERMS:            40 years, including 10 years of grace, at standard IDA service
charge
PROJECT
OBJECTIVE:        The Project will help develop institutions and national capacity for
an effective and sustainable health care system. Its specific
objectives are to: (i) establish/strengthen institutional and human
resource capacities for an effective and sustainable health sector;
and (ii) improve the accessibility, quality and efficiency of health
services.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:    The proposed Project will provide financing for civil works,
general services equipment, computer hardware and software,
medical equipment, fellowships, study tours, foreign and local
training, expert advisory services, public education materials, and
incremental recurrent costs. The estimated total cost of the Project
is US$28.0 million, of which US$17.0 million will be financed by
the IDA Credit. The Project will be implemented over a period of
four years by MOH, and consists of four components:
National Capacity Building (estimated base cost US$1.9 million).
This component will develop and strengthen institutions and
competencies required to implement the sector development
strategy. The strategy was developed over the past three years by
Albanians with international donor collaboration, and endorsed by



v
the MOH in letters to the Bank, in December 1997. The target
institutions are the MOH and the Health Insurance Institute (HII).
Governance and Management of Health System in Tirana Region
(estimated base cost US$ 1.2 million). This component will
support the establishment and functions of institutions to undertake
the decentralization of planning and management to the regional
level in Tirana, through assistance to two entities: the Regional
Health Management Team (RHMT) and its Management Board.
Upgrading of Tirana Health Care Delivery Systern (estimated base
cost US$20.9 million). This component will support civil works,
medical equipment, and supplies for a network of one hospital,
three polyclinics, and 37 health centers; technical assistance to
improve the functional relationships among the health services and
facilities; technical assistance for the adaptation and use of
standard clinical protocols; and technical assistance in support of
selected public health interventions of potentially high impact on
health status.
Project Management (estimated base cost US$0.5 million). This
component will provide support to overall management of the
Project, in the form of additional office equipment, technical
assistance, staff and training, for the existing Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) in the MOH.
BENEFITS:          The Project will support the immediate restoration of health
services to the population, thereby preventing outbreaks of
communicable diseases and needless complications of common
illnesses. Beyond the immediate future, it will support
fundamental improvements in the structure and functions of the
health system. It will also support improvement of quality of
clinical services and an increased emphasis on the prevention of
communicable and non-communicable diseases.
In terms of economic benefits, the Project finds its strongest
justification in the fact that it is consistent with and supports the
Bank's proposed economic strategy for Albania, i.e., the
restoration of fiscal balance through a wide-ranging reform
program. When applied to an underfinanced sector of the economy
like the health sector, where resource cuts are neither justified nor
feasible, the economic rationale translates into ways of raising
effectiveness, productivity and quality. The benefits of the Project
will therefore accrue from the difference between incremental costs
and savings attributable to the Project. Most of the cost savings
will come from improvements in organization, management and



vi
administration, and the reduction in the costs of poor quality of
care.
Finally, the proposed Project is a powerful tool for the Government
to make the best use possible of external resources. Donors have
expressed their support for the strategy outlined by the
Government. The Project provides the required framework to
implement this strategy. Although impossible to measure, a major
benefit of the Project is its potential to minimize wasteful gaps and
overlaps due to difficulties in coordinating national and
international resources, especially during the post-crisis period.
RISKS:             There are three major sets of risks to the Project. The first is that
political and social upheavals could preclude the stability needed
for effective implementation and institutional development. This
risk will be mitigated by: (a) the benefits to major stakeholders of
cooperation in all aspects of the recovery program, and (b) the
emphasis on improving community ownership of, and involvement
in, health service planning, organization and management.
Specifically, Local Health Advisory Committees will be
established at the commune level, with inputs into the local
planning of health service delivery. Health Advisory Committees
will be established at the Regional/District Levels, to work with
District Health Management Teams and the proposed Tirana
Regional Health Authority in health planning, service delivery and
management, and to improve responsiveness of the health sector to
local problems. Representatives of the NGO Forum will be
encouraged to participate as members of the management teams for
districts and hospitals. Further details are shown in the Health
Sector Strategy Matrix (Annex 6, Section C). The second -and
project specific- risk is that weak national capacity for
implementation could hinder effective implementation. This risk
will be mitigated by specifying responsibilities for implementation
prior to project effectiveness and by appropriate use of external
technical assistance. Prior agreement with the Government on the
need for technical assistance for the Project Coordination Unit has
been emphasized. Finally, fiscal instability could make it difficult
for the Government to meet its counterpart financing commitments
under the Project and to operate services effectively beyond the
initial phase. This risk will be mitigated by limiting required
counterpart funds to the most essential recurrent expenditures.
Given the weaknesses of the Albanian economy and its recent
history of political and social strife, expectations of local
implementation capacity, counterpart funds and speed of
implementation must remain realistic and modest.



vii
Estimated Costs and Financing Planl
Local        Foreign      Total
(US$ Million)
1. National Capacity Building                  0.3           1.7           1.9
2. Governance and Management of Health System   0.3          0.9           1.2
Tirana Region
3. Upgrading of Tirana Health Care Delivery System 7.1      13.8         20.9
4. Project Management                          0.1           0.4           0.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS                  7.7          16.8         24.5
Physical Contingencies                   0.8           1.5          2.3
Price Contingencies                      0.4           0.7          1.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS2              8.9          19.1          28.0
Financing Plan:
Government                                      2.4          0.0          2.4
IDA                                             5.1         11.9          17.0
Other Donors                                     1.4         7.2           8.6
TOTAL                              8.9         19.1         28.0
Estimated Disbursements (US$ Million)
FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02
Annual                                  1.0   4.0    6.3   4.6   1.1
Cumulative                              1.0   5.0   11.3  15.9  17.0
Cumulative as % of Total               6%    29%   66%   94%   100%
Detailed numbers may not add to totals due to rounding.
2Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$0.9 million. Most imported items financed by international
agreements are exempt from duties and taxes.



1. INTRODUCTION
A. COUNTRY/SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.1    At the onset of its transition to a democratic society and a market economy, Albania
had inherited a health system conditioned by forty years of a command economy and isolation
from the rest of the world. Table 1 shows a summary of health status, services and finance in
Albania, as well as those of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE), Established Market Economies
(EME), and Pakistan, a country with comparable income. Yet, the average life expectancy at
birth, estimated at 73 years, is superior to that of any other country in Central and Eastern
Europe (CEE). This profile is substantially due to lower adult death rates, in turn the result of
healthy diets with low fat, high vegetable contents, low prevalence of sedentary lifestyles and
low incidence of automobile accidents and industrial injuries. The infant mortality rate in
Albania, estimated at 36 per 1,000 live births in 1994, is worse than those of its wealthier
neighbors in CEE, but substantially better than the performances of other countries at similar
income levels, such as Pakistan (95 per 1,000 live births). This favorable outcome is largely
attributable to superior achievements in female education and childhood immunization.
However, aggregate numbers mask inequities in access among geographical sub-groups and
the poor quality of health services. In addition, a major increase in the burden of non-
communicable diseases is imminent, due to the epidemiological transition in Albania. Some
population sub-groups, for example, women of childbearing age, have higher risks of
premature deaths: the maternal mortality ratio, estimated at 40.6 per 100,000 live births in
1994, is much higher than the weighted averages for CEE and the EME.
Table 1: HEALTH SERVICES AND STATUS
Indicators                                      Albania           ICEE       EME      IPakistan
1990      1994  % change      1994      1994      1994
Physicians per 1,000 population            1.4       1.3    -7.1%        2.4       2.2a     0.5b
Hospital beds per 1,000 population         4.0       3.0   -25.0%        8.8       8.4a     07b
Life Expectancy at birth                  72.1     737b       2.2%      71.1b     76.9c       60
Males                               69.3      69.5     0.3%         --        --       62d
Females                             75.4      75.6     0.3%         --        --      64d
Crude death rate (per 1,000 persons)       5.4      5.3b     -1.9%      114 b     10.1c      8.4
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)  28.3  31 0d    965%      1448b 608c            92
Maternal mortality ratio                  37.7      40.6      7.7%      20.9b      6.7c      340
(per 100,000 live births)
Sources: World Bank, WHO/HFA, UNICEF/ICDC
a) OECD 1992; b) 1993; c) EU 1993; d) 1995



2
Table 2: HEALTH FINANCING
_  }    19901    19911    19921    1993T    1994
Health to GDP Ratio                   3.4      4.4       3.3      3.0       2.8
Real health spending as % of 1990    100        95       79        40       42
Real per capita health spending as % of  100  93.0      75.5     37.7      39.3
1990
Real GDP as % of 1990                100        73       67        73        80
Source: SCT and MultiQuery Databases
1.2    Albania began the transition from central planning to a market economy with two main
objectives for the health sector: (a) preventing further deterioration in basic health services
through rehabilitation of the most essential infrastructure, and upgrading the skills of
personnel; and (b) undertaking the initial stages of transition to a cost-effective and financially
sustainable service system, emphasizing health outcomes and an efficient management system.
These objectives were widely supported by the international community, including the World
Bank, through substantial investments in infrastructure restructuring and rehabilitation,
through reorganization and operational support to its supplies procurement and distribution
system, and most importantly for the longer term, through sustainable development of its
sectoral institutions and human resource capacity.
Immediate and Medium Term Challenges
1.3    Although the health sector did not suffer a complete collapse, the recent economic, social
and political upheavals have caught it in a phase of mid-recovery from the past inefficiencies
and inadequate functioning. This resulted in uneven disruptions of primary health care and
hospital services, ruptures of fragile supplies and maintenance systems, damage and/or
destruction of basic infrastructure and equipment, and the undermining of confidence among
the health professionals in the system. In addition, the events have resulted in large but
unspecified numbers of injuries, mainly from physical assault and firearms. The health system
was not prepared for a sudden and increased caseload. The Ministry of Health and
Environment (MOH), which has articulated an Emergency Aid Program, reports a depletion of
surgical materials and consumables, equipment for blood transfusion and laboratory reagents
for public health services, and communicable disease control. In some districts, health
centers, stores of Public Health Departments and hospitals have been robbed of equipment and
in some cases, damaged or destroyed. Vaccine availability and cold chain equipment have also
been affected in some places, threatening the effectiveness of basic control of communicable
diseases which are at risk of re-emergence in the current context of economic recession.



3
Sector Issues
1.4   In the current post-crisis period, the main sector issues are not fundamentally different
from those of the pre-crisis period. Nevertheless, the crisis phase has raised their acuteness,
calling for a quick and effective response. There are four main issues currently facing the health
sector in Albania, namely: (i) a potential breakdown of basic clinical and public health services,
due to shortages of essential supplies and equipment -- to be addressed through short-term relief
and supplies, while developing adequate mechanisms to ensure an effective and affordable
provision of these basic inputs on a sustainable basis; (ii) weak planning and management
capacity, which will be addressed through the revised Policy and Governance Framework, both
at the national and regional/district levels: (iii) low level of resources and inadequate financing
and payment mechanisms, to be addressed through the revised financing and Provider Payment
Framework; and (iv) a structural mismatch between health services provided and population
needs that, beyond the needed immediate recovery interventions, should be addressed through
the proposed reforms of policy making, governance and management, as well as investments in
upgrading the health care delivery system. These main issues and priorities are detailed below.
1.5   A potential breakdown of basic clinical and public health services. There is a shortage of
laboratory reagents, spare parts and consumables for running a system of simple clinical and
public health functions. The risks are that uncomplicated illnesses will get worse, resulting in
more suffering, disability and deaths. Equally important is the risk of major epidemics if public
health functions are not restored immediately. For example, reductions in immunization
coverage could result in epidemics of measles.
1.6   Weak planning and management capacity. At the national and regional/district levels,
definitions of tasks are insufficiently specified and/or overlapping, and human resource capacity
remains weak. Responsibilities for planning, managing and implementation are not clearly
delineated. This is particularly acute for the region of Tirana, which covers two distinct
administrative structures, the City and a rural district, which manages separate funds. In
addition, other services are directly managed by the central MOH. At all levels of health
facilities, information systems and modem resources management methods are still embryonic.
1.7   Low level of resources and inadequate financing and payment mechanisms. At about 5
percent of GDP, total health expenditures (including foreign aid) are among the lowest in
Europe, but are in line with countries of comparable wealth. While economic growth should
progressively allow a larger share of GDP to be spent on health care, service availability will
continue to be constrained by resources, and stringent priorities will need to be set. Despite the
laudable efforts to develop health insurance, most of the resources continue to originate from the
Government budget. Expenditures are, and will remain, very sensitive to fiscal adjustments, and
are still largely allocated on an input-basis (salaries, historical budgets), irrespective of their
relative performance. These are subject to large fluctuations in light of Albania's political and
social upheavals. To that extent, financing remains constrained by inefficiencies inherited from
the socialist regime, when resource allocation among institutions, cities and regions was largely
driven by political considerations and followed neither a demographic, epidemiological nor
geographic rationale. Overall funding of health institutions still depends mainly on central



4
Government institutions (MOF, MOH) and still results in inequitable and unbalanced resource
distribution. Despite progress, the absence of incentives still fails to motivate health sector staff.
Overstaffing and low productivity are sustained through low salaries, low non-wage operational
inputs and minimal medical technology at all levels of care.
1.8    Structural mismatch between health services provided and population needs. The health
of Albanians shows a mixed picture typical of countries undergoing the epidemiological
transition. On the one hand, there is a persistent burden of communicable diseases and relatively
high maternal mortality ratios. On the other hand, there is an increasing load of non-
communicable diseases. However, the health service delivery system is substantially
incongruent with the health service needs. The system still suffers from the inefficiencies
inherited from central planning: services are concentrated in large institutions, with emphasis on
curative services that without appropriate primary care and public health interventions, provide
poor return on investments. Lower-level facilities -- health centers and polyclinics -- are still
characterized by an "over-specialization" of physicians, which results in a damaging
fragmentation of services. Technical skills and competencies remain, in general, weak and
inappropriately allocated. Prevention and promotion activities are still notably underdeveloped,
and there is an under-appreciation of the potential impact of public health interventions on
aggregate health status.
B. THE GOVERNMENT'S SECTOR RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
1.9    The Government's strategy, shown in Annex 6 (Health Sector Strategy), stresses the
concurrent development of (a) effective governance, policy formulation and management
capacity, as well as (b) upgrades of the service delivery infrastructure to meet the needs of the
population. Each of these is necessary, and neither is sufficient by itself. The strategy was
formulated through a careful and deliberative process involving major stakeholders in Albania's
health sector, in consultation with foreign partners. It is being further elaborated and will be
formally launched by the Ministry of Health in the third quarter of 1998. For the last four years,
and with support of the donor community, the MOH has been developing the elements of an
overall policy framework. Several policy and planning documents 2have been drafted that cover
overall health care reform, the development of Primary Health Care, and the country's hospital
strategy and master plans for the rehabilitation and development of Tirana University Hospital
and two regional hospitals in Shkodra and Vlora. In parallel, the Government has initiated a
comprehensive reform of its financing system, aimed at providing a sustainable foundation for
the sector operation and development, and gradually reducing the inefficiencies of the past
2   Health Care Reform in Albania. Background document 1: Situation Analysis; Background document 2: Policy
Options Appraisal. Ministry of Health and Environment Protection - WHO/EURO. April 1996.
Primarv Health Care Policy. Ministry of Health and Environment Protection. 1995
1996-2001 Hospital Policy In Albania. Ministry of Health and Environment Protection - Assistance Publique
Hopitaux de Paris (APHP). July 1996.
Master Plan for Tirana University Hospital. Ministry of Health and Environment Protection - Assistance
Publique Hopitaux de Paris (APHP). 1996.



5
system. Most notably, the issue of major overstaffing has begun to be tackled through an initial
program of privatization (pharmacies and most dental/stomatology services). With the
establishment of the Health Insurance Institute (HII) in 1995, a powerful instrument for health
financing reforms and regulation has been launched. Specific achievements are specified below.
1.10  Health services: Reforms have addressed inefficiencies in resource use and allocation,
including overstaffing and duplication of physical resources. The structure of health care services
has been streamlined, and hierarchical and operational links have been established among levels
of services. This has been achieved through the closure of some rural hospitals, reduction in the
number of day-nurseries, privatization of some services (mostly pharmacies and dental services),
and the emigration of medical specialists who have left Albania to work abroad. Following the
design of a rational "health care map" of primary care units, hospital beds were sharply reduced
in most districts, and more than 40 small rural hospitals were shut down. In 1996, the total
number of public employees in the health care system was 28,371, in comparison with 35,000 in
1991.
1.11 Health financing: Government-backed reforms have been characterized by a pragmatic
move towards a rational financing mechanism. Initial measures to secure essential resources
have included: (i) stabilization of the sector budget by combining foreign aid and resources
raised from national taxes; (ii) privatization of selected health services (pharmacies and
dental/stomatological services); (iii) elimination of subsidies for drugs prescribed in out-patient
services; and (iv) decentralization of fiscal responsibilities to municipalities, which has not
translated, however, into additional resources for the sector in the absence of local sources of
revenue. The reform strategy has sought to diversify sources of financing for the health sector,
and to introduce new provider payment mechanisms, in order to shift emphasis from input to
output financing. In the two years since its establishment, the HII has developed into a useful
instrument for health financing reforms, contracting with private sector providers of dental and
pharmaceutical services, and regulation at the primary health care level. The scheme remains
modest (13 percent of total health expenditures including foreign aid, and 22 percent of public
expenditures in 1996), but has met its assigned initial objectives: (i) developing effective
operational structures and human resources capabilities; (ii) devising and implementing new
output-based provider mechanisms and operational procedures to manage benefits; (iii)
maintaining sound financial status; and importantly: (iv) drawing a pragmatic medium-term
strategic development plan.
1.12   Sustained efforts should facilitate the attainment of basic health services coverage
objectives set for the year 2000. To optimize these favorable developments and achieve further
health gains, additional investments are required in the health sector to: (i) ensure the
development of an effective health services delivery system, encompassing preventive and
curative services; and (ii) improve policies and strategies to guarantee the efficiency and
sustainability of investments. The Government is committed to developing a three-pronged
reform strategy. First, new efforts will be made to strengthen the overall policy and governance
framework. Second, the financing and providers payment framework will be further elaborated.
Third and concurrently, investments will be directed toward supporting the development of the
capacities required to implement the new policy framework, and the development of effective



6
health care services, encompassing preventive and curative services consistent with the needs of
the population.
(a) A revised Policy and Governance framework. The Government strategy will aim at
the development of the capacity to plan and regulate health services according to
needs.
*  At the national level, emphasis will be put on strengthening core skills required to
fulfill the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Institute of Public
Health (IPH). The MOH, in the medium-term, will evolve into a policy-making and
regulatory institution, leaving planning and routine management functions to the
regional and/or district authorities. The MOH will concentrate on policy
formulation, setting standards of care, accreditation and quality assurance,
monitoring of professional licenses, consumer protection, health promotion, public
health development, and private practice supervision to ensure that the public and
private sector play their respective roles under appropriate limits. The IPH will,
within the parameters established in the national health policy, provide the technical
framework and guidance for development and implementation of cost-effective,
preventive, and promotional health interventions.
- At the regional level -- and in a first phase, in the region of Tirana -- the
Government will decentralize the responsibilities for organization and overall
management of services through the establishment of a Regional Health Authority
(RHA) comprising two entities. A Regional Health Management Team (RHMT)
will assume the functions of financial and organizational planning and supervision
for public health, primary health care, specialized out-patient services (polyclinics)
and in-patient services (hospitals). The RHMT will be responsible to, and serve as,
the executive arm of a Regional Management Board (RMB). The approach will first
be developed in the Tirana Region. In the remainder of the country, in the short
term, and pending what is learned from the experience of Tirana, the district health
teams will be in charge of most of the functions envisaged for the RHMT in Tirana.
(b)  A Revised Financing and Provider Payment Framework. The objective of the
Government program will be to reinforce the role of the Health Insurance Institute
(HII) through the development of its capacity to contract (purchase) services. On the
revenue side, efforts to improve the collection of contributions will have to be
emphasized together with a redefined distribution of responsibilities and improved
coordination mechanisms between the Social Insurance Fund and the Health
Insurance Fund at the national and districts levels. Consideration will be given to
widening the contribution base, increasing the premiums in line with the expansion
of benefits covered through health insurance and reducing the scope of exemptions
from contributions. The HII will be entrusted to develop and implement new
provider payment mechanisms, the priority being to complete the actions that have
already been undertaken, in order to achieve a full, coherent set of payment
mechanisms and, concurrently, initiate new actions to broaden the scope of financing



7
reforms. The nature and pace of the introduction of revised mechanisms will
carefully balance the need to enlarge the benefit package covered through health
insurance and the feasibility of doing so in order to guarantee HII's capacity to
control expenditures and maintain financial soundness. Accordingly:
*  Cover the entire costs of primary health care. In the short term, in addition to the
remuneration of General Practitioners (GPs), the HII will define mechanisms to
remunerate other PHC personnel (nurses, mid-wives, etc.). Such mechanisms will be
output-based as much as possible so as to serve as incentives for higher performance.
The current capitation mechanism for GPs will be reviewed to reinforce the link
between the performance (the number of patients registered) and the remuneration.
The HII will, therefore, define thresholds under which GPs will no longer be
contracted, and enforce the revised regulation under a time frame to be defined.
Finally, consideration will be given to allocate non-salary operational expenditures
directly to the providers, in order to reinforce accountability and simplify
administrative procedures. The KHF is currently providing valuable assistance to the
HII in these areas.
*  Over the short to medium-term, contract specialist out-patient services and in-
patient services in hospitals. Feasibility analyses to define specific mechanisms,
tools, and a gradual, pragmatic schedule for implementation will be developed by the
HII. The objective will be to shift progressively towards performance-based
allocation of resources. The European Commission is providing technical assistance
for this exercise.
C. ROLE OF THE INTERNATIONAL DONOR COMMUNITY
1.13  Since the beginning of international donor involvement in 1992, an amount estimated to
exceed US$100 million has been committed by donors for the rehabilitation of the health care
delivery system, as well as for overall reform of its institutional structures. Bilateral donors
such as Germany, Italy, Switzerland, the Netherlands, United Kingdom, France and the United
States have provided aid to various aspects of the health system. The European Union (EU) is
providing assistance in the amount of US$16 million within several programs involving broad
interventions. UNICEF has provided aid in primary health care activities, e.g., Expanded
Program of Immunization, and maternal and child health care. UNFPA has committed US$4
million in support of a national reproductive health program. WHO is providing technical
support, mainly in the area of policy development. Many charitable and/or non-governmental
organizations have provided aid, in most areas of the health sector. The Catholic Foundation is
supporting the construction of a new general hospital for the Region of Tirana (see Table 3
below).



8
Table 3: SUMMARY OF FOREIGN ASSISTANCE BY DONOR AND ACTIVITIES
Organization   Principal activities                               Estimated       Estimated
Amount          disbursements
(as of July 97)
(US$000)        (US$000)
Catholic Church        New General Hospital; specialized polyclinic in Tirana.    31,000            7,000
OPEC / Islamic Bank    New General Hospital in Durres, specialized polyclinic     10.500              150
in Tirana
EU-Phare               Rehabilitation of hospital labs; management training,      16,000            8,000
emergency services equipment; equipment maintenance;                   (other 4,000
rehabilitation of intravenous solution line production,                 contracted)
etc.
Government of France    Preparation of Hospital Strategy and masterplan for          NA               NA
Tirana Hospital
Government of          Rehabilitation of three north district hospitals, MCH and  12,000            7,000
Germany                Family Planning
Government of Italy    Support for University Hospital, the health services of    12,000            5,000
the Region of Elbasan, the Institute of Public Health,
etc.
Government of Kuwait   New orthopedic Surgery/Physical Rehabilitation                NA               NA
Hospital in Tirana
Government of          Support for Tirana National Blood Center and Institute      3,200            3,200
Netherlands            of Public Health
Government of          Support for Institute of Public Health                      2,200            2,200
Switzerland
UNICEF                 Primary health care                                         1,545             NA
UNFPA                  Family planning and reproductive health                     6,000            2,000
United Kingdom(Know    Support for the Health Insurance Institute HII)               NA              NA
How Fund)
USAID                  Mother and child health, family planning, Hospital            800             NA
Management Training
WHO                    Preparation of health services policy document; overall       180              50
policy advice.
World Bank (IDA)       Primary Health care; Hospital Rehabilitation; Policy and   12,800            3,500
Institutional Development



9
D. RATIONALE FOR BANK'S INVOLVEMENT
1.14  The principal rationale for the Bank's continued involvement in the health sector is as a
part of the overall Economic Recovery Program: to enable the development of an effective
governance and management framework that will (a) accelerate poverty alleviation through
sustained improvements in health status, and (b) improve efficiency, equity and effectiveness by:
limiting the role of the state to core policy and regulatory functions; decentralizing management
responsibilities and authority for implementation to the regional/district levels -- closer to
stakeholders at the community level; and facilitating the involvement of the private sector in
those health services most suited to private sector delivery. Beyond the limited financial
support, the extensive policy discussions with Government, workers and representatives of civil
society at large all provide the proposed Project, and the program of which it is a part, with
credibility and prospects for medium-term financing by partner agencies.
1.15  The International Development Association (IDA) has been active in Albania since the
early stages of the transition. Following initial sector assessment and strategy development, a
first operation in the health sector (Health Services Rehabilitation Project, Credit Number 2659-
ALB) was approved in 1994 and is under implementation. This on-going project focuses on
physical rehabilitation of basic health infrastructure and capacity building. The following is a
summary of progress to date:
*  Health Services Rehabilitation Component: Out of the planned total of 100 Primary
Health Care Centers, 52 have been completed. Procurement is underway for the
rehabilitation of regional hospitals in Shkodra and Vlora. Medical equipment for the
same hospitals will be procured in 1998.
-  Capacity Building Component: Training activities started in 1996 for District Health
Management Teams. Plans have been completed for the continuing education for
hospital physicians and the training will start by mid-1998. Rehabilitation work has
been completed on the School of Nursing.
•  Health Planning and Financing: The United Kingdom, through the Know How Fund,
has provided most of the requirement for technical assistance for the Health Insurance
Institute. The USAID has supported the MOH. The Health Insurance Institute is a
modest and effective establishment. It covers about 13 percent of total health
expenditures including foreign aid, and 22 percent of public sector expenditures. It
has met its initial objectives of: (a) maintaining financial solvency; (b) developing
effective operational structures and human resource capacity; and (c) defining a
modest and achievable development plan for the medium term.
1.16  Project implementation was slowed down by the crisis of 1997. It has returned to a faster
pace of implementation in 1998. On the basis of progress achieved so far, it is expected that both
development and implementation objectives of this project will be fulfilled. Other donors, as
well as the Government, have enabled accelerated infrastructure rehabilitation, and these



10
sustained efforts should facilitate the attainment of basic health services coverage objectives set
for year 2000. The proposed IDA involvement is justified on the grounds specified below.
1.17  First, the proposed Health System Recovery and Development Project is complementary
to the ongoing Health Services Rehabilitation Project. The Health Rehabilitation Project
concentrates on the regions of Shkodra in the north and Vlora in the south, and on a network of
primary health centers and basic capacity building. The proposed Project will concentrate on the
region of Tirana in the central part of the country, as well as more profound capacity building
across the entire health sector. Second, the proposed Project is part of the IDA commitment to
support the economic recovery of Albania. During the course of implementation of the first
project, the Bank has been actively involved in developing its policy dialogue with the
Government and, together with other major international agencies, helping it develop its
strategy and priorities for action. Third, over the past few years, the Bank has been active in
helping the Government better coordinate other donors' involvement -- to minimize wasteful
overlaps and gaps among various activities. As a result, the proposed Project consists of the
core priority modules of a broader Government-backed program to be supported by the
international community and national resources. Finally, the Bank's experience in investments
and reforms in the health sector, as well as its more recently acquired body of knowledge in
post-crisis situations in Central and Eastern Europe on bridging the potential gap between
emergency and development, provide a substantial comparative advantage for assisting Albania
in its health sector recovery and development.
1.18  Preparation of the proposed Project was completed before work began on the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), to be presented to the Board of Directors later this year. However,
the objectives of the proposed Project are consistent with the CAS, including the emphasis on
sustainability, improved governance and management capacities, and the participatory approach
to implementation (see Annex 6, Section C for details). The proposed Project is designed to
support the Government Strategy, and is intended to address all four main issues currently facing
the health sector in Albania (Section A above). It has been designed as a crucial part of a wider
Government-backed program to be supported by the international community and national
resources. It will support the following components:
(a)  Improving management and governance of the health sector. This must first be done
on a national basis. There is no alternative to developing a national capacity that will
serve the entire health sector's efficient development. The Project, therefore, will
strengthen the national institutions by building up their managerial and regulatory
capacities, through support to the MOH and the HII. The MOH will, in the medium-
term, evolve into a policy-making and regulatory institution, concentrating on setting
standards of care, accreditation and quality assurance, monitoring of professional
licenses, consumer protection, health promotion and public health development and
private practice supervision. Health system management will be improved through
the decentralization and professionalization at the regional/district level through the
establishment of a Regional Health Authority (RHA). Since this is a new concept in
Albania, the proposed Project will support such innovations on a pilot basis, initially
in the Region of Tirana.



11
(b)   Improving the efficiency and fiscal sustainability of the health sector requires the
development of a national strategy and plan of actions. This is a rationale for the
Government Strategy and will be supported by the Project. Specifically, the Project
will support Government reform efforts to establish sustainable and efficient
financing mechanisms, through the strengthening of the Health Insurance Institute
(HII). The establishment of the HII in 1995 has increased the Government's ability
to secure financing for health care by diversifying sources of financing and
introducing new provider payment mechanisms. Rather than setting high
contribution rates, the HII currently collects minimal and variable contributions from
employees, supplemented by State budget contributions on behalf of uninsured
groups. Expenditures have been similarly constrained by limiting the package to
essential in-kind benefits covered by the HII. The Project will further enhance the
capacity of the HII to develop and implement new payment mechanisms, while
helping the HII build its needed analytical and managerial capacities to progressively
enlarge the package of essential services covered through health insurance.
(c)  Additional investments in the health service delivery system are a precondition for
sustained gains in health status. The positive effects expected from the governance
and financing reform agenda developed by the Government need to be matched by
improvements in service delivery. Due to resource and absorptive capacity
constraints, however, this cannot be accomplished in the short tern, if it is to be
done in a comprehensive manner. In order to maximize the synergy between
improvements in governance and management on the one hand and in service
delivery on the other hand, the Project will concentrate its support on investments in
the region of Tirana. The Project will directly affect and benefit the health of the
population by: (a) facilitating the provision of preventive and promotve public health
interventions -- communicable diseases of childhood, and chronic diseases; and (b)
improving the quality of clinical, primary, out-patient and essential hospital services,
thereby increasing the probability of better health outcomes and limiting the costs
resulting from inadequate and poor quality services.



12
2. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
2.1   The proposed Project is consistent with and guided by the Sector Recovery and
Development Strategy of the Government. It is designed to support the health sector in
addressing the pre-crisis priorities, which remain valid, and to alleviate the needs resulting
from the disturbances. The Project's objectives are to: (a) establish/strengthen institutional and
human resource capacities for an effective and sustainable health sector; and (b) improve the
accessibility, quality and efficiency of essential health services in fulfillment of a precondition
for sustained improvements in health status. These objectives will be achieved by : (a)
rationalizing and strengthening the governance structure and the management capacity at the
national, regional, and district levels; and (b) improving the effectiveness and quality of health
service delivery in Tirana Region through the upgrading of selected health facilities as part of a
regional health system. The Project will consist of the following four components:
(a)   National Capacity Building (estimated base cost US$1.9 million).
(b)   Governance and Management of the Health System in Tirana Region (estimated
base cost US$1.2 million).
(c)   Upgrading of Tirana Health Care Delivery System (estimated base cost US$20.9
million).
(d)   Project Management (estimated base cost US$0.5 million)
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.2   National Capacity Building. This component will support the development and
strengthening of institutions and competencies required to implement the sector development
strategy. The strategy has been endorsed by the Ministry of Health in a letter to the Bank in
December 1997 (see Annex 3). The target institutions concerned are the Ministry of Health
(MOH) through its various Directorates and the Health Insurance Institute (HII). Activities to
be supported under the Project will consist of:



13
(a)   specification and provision of required infrastructure -- limited civil works,
equipment and information technology -- for policy and regulatory functions of
the two national institutions concerned, i.e., MOH and HII;
(b)   technical assistance, training and study tours for MOH staff to develop skills for
legislation and regulation, formulation of public health policy, performance
assessment, monitoring and evaluation of health system performance, revenue
generation, budget formulation, decentralization of authority and responsibility
for mid-level functions to sub-national levels (region/district); and
(c)   technical assistance, training and study tours for HII to develop its capacity to
specify and enforce its current mandate and new responsibilities under the sector
development strategy, including but not limited to provider payment mechanisms
at the primary care level.
2.3   Assurances were received at Negotiations that the Government will: a) commit
adequate resources to capacity building, including the training of nationals and
procurement of crucial external technical assistance; and b) strengthen priority public
health policies and services, while also improving the quality of clinical services (para. 5.1
(c)). Additionally, assurances were received that the Government will procure technical
assistance from IDA resources under the Project, as planned, unless alternative Grants
satisfactory to IDA are secured in writing (para. 5.1 (b)).
2.4   Governance and Management of Health System in Tirana Region. The Project will
support the decentralization of planning and management functions to the regional level in
Tirana. The responsibilities will be fulfilled by a Regional Health Authority, which would
consist of two bodies: the Regional Health Management Team (RHMT) and its Management
Board. Activities to be supported under this component consist of:
(a)   specification and provision of priority infrastructure - limited civil works,
equipment information systems; and
(b)   technical assistance, training and study tours to develop skills for planning,
organizing and managing a cost-effective regional health system.
2.5   During Negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the Tirana Regional
Health Authority (consisting of the Tirana Regional Health Management Team and its
Management Board) will be established through an order of the Minister of Health before
Project Effectiveness and maintained throughout Project implementation (para. 5.1 (a))
2.6   Upgrading of Tirana Health Care Delivery System. Activities supported by the Project
include civil works, medical equipment, and supplies for the reconfiguration and streamlining
of one hospital, three polyclinics, and 37 health centers. The Project also supports:



14
(a)   technical assistance and training for the improvement of functional relationships
among public health interventions, primary health care, out-patient specialist care
and in-patient hospital services.
(b)   technical assistance, training and equipment for information, education and
communication activities aimed at sensitizing the population to high-impact
interventions of known cost-effectiveness, including health promotion and chronic
disease prevention, clinical services at the primary level and out-patient, in-patient
and emergency services at the secondary level; and
(c)   training and use of clinical protocols by health professionals. The Project will
build upon activities started under the Hospital Physicians' Retraining component
of the Health I Project and the EU-PHARE supported training programs in family
medicine; and technical assistance and training for developing management
procedures at all three levels of the health care delivery system (PHC, specialized
out-patient, specialized in-patient). Emphasis will be on secondary-level service
requirements at the Tirana Hospital.
(d)   investments in diagnostic equipment and reagents for clinical and public health
laboratories, cold chain equipment for vaccines, and medical consumables and
supplies, as requested by the Government in its Emergency Aid Program
Document of March 28, 1997.
2.7   Project Management. This component will provide support to overall management of
the Project, in the form of additional office equipment, technical assistance, staff and training
for the existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the MOH. (Refer to the PIP, Annex 1 for
a detailed description of this component.)
2.8   During Negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)   With regard to the PCU, it was agreed that the Health System Recovery and
Development Project would have a separate Project Director, in addition to
the existing Project Director for the on-going Health Rehabilitation Project,
i.e., each Project would have its own Director. Terms of References (TORs)
for this position (Project Director, Health System Recovery and Development
Project) were agreed upon and are attached to the Minutes (para. 5.1 (d) (i)).
(b)   A new position of overall Coordinator of the PCU would be created. TORs
for this position were agreed upon and are attached to the Minutes (para 5.1
(d) (ii)).
(c)   A new PCU Procurement Specialist would be hired specifically for the Health
System Recovery and Development Project. It was agreed that, initially, this
person would work with and be mentored by the existing Procurement
Specialist, and would receive technical assistance and training during the
course of Project implementation (para. 5.1 (d) (iii)).



15
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
2.9   This is a Category C Project: "No appreciable environmental impact." Upgrading of
unsanitary hospital buildings will contribute to improved environmental safety, as will the
replacement of old equipment -- radiology and laboratory -- that present health risks. Sanitary
procedures will be introduced for dealing with waste management.



16
3. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION
A. INTRODUCTION
3.1   This chapter provides a summary of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which was
prepared in conjunction with the Borrower and reviewed and deemed satisfactory by the Bank.
The PIP includes detailed information on the project description, costs, financing, management
and implementation arrangements, procurement, disbursements, audit reporting, and status of
preparation. The PIP is attached as Annex 1.
B. PROJECT COST
3.2   The total cost of the Health System Recovery and Development Project is estimated at
about US$28.0 million, or about Leke 4.5 billion equivalent, including contingencies, taxes and
duties. The total base cost is estimated at US$24.5 million. Physical contingencies are estimated
at US$2.3 million. Price contingencies between negotiations (March 1998) and the end of the
four-year project implementation period will amount to about US$1.2 million, or 5 percent of
base cost. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$19.1 million, including
contingencies, or about 68 percent of total project cost. Taxes and duties are estimated at US$0.9
million equivalent.
3.3   The total project cost includes fellowships, training, technical assistance, studies,
computer hardware and software, medical and office equipment, teaching and public education
materials, refurbishment of facilities, and incremental recurrent costs incurred during project
implementation. The estimated cost distributed among project components is shown in Table 3
of the PIP. Project costs are summarized by expenditure category in Table 4 of the PIP. The
project costs include about Leke 239 million or US$1.5 million to cover incremental operating
costs directly attributable to the Project during the four-year implementation period. Equipment
operation and maintenance, and materials and supplies account for most of the project's
incremental recurrent costs. Table 4 below shows summary costs by expenditure accounts and
project components.



Table 4: SUMMARY COSTS BY EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS AND PROJECT COMPONENTS
Governance &
National Capacity           Mgt. of Tirana            Tirana Health
Building                Health System            Service Delivery
Institute   Health   Regional                                          Upgrading
Ministry  of Public Insurance   Health       PHC     PHC                       Professional Project
Rural   Urban
of Health  Health  Institute   Authority     Areas   Areas  Polyclinics Hospitals   Skills    Manage-  Total
ment
1. Investment Costs
A. Rehabilitation of Physical Facilities
1. Rural Primary Health Centers              -         -        -                -   844.9       -          -        -           -        -    844.9
2. Urban Primary Health Centers               -        -        -                -       -  1,811.4         -        -           -        -  1,811.4
3. Specialized Polyclinics                    -        -        -                -       -       -      630.9        -           -        -    630.9
4. Tirana Hospital                            -        -        -                -       -        -         -   6,715.4          -        -  6,715.4
5. Other Building Rehabilitation              -        -        -            201.7       -       -          -        -          -         -    201.7
Subtotal Rehab. of Physical Facilities          -        -        -            201.7   844.9  1,811.4     630.9  6,715.4           -        - 10,204.4
B. ArchitecturaVEngineering Services            -        -        -             11.9    49.9   107.0       37.4    345.8           -        -    551.9
C. Medical Equipment/Supplies                   -        -        -                -   194.8   125.3   3,898.6   5,682.7           -        -  9,901.4
D. Pharmaceuticals                              -        -        -                -       -       -          -   1,084.1          -        -  1,084.1
E. Office Equipment and Vehicles             63.8        -    351.6            209.2       -       -          -    132.7        81.7     66.8    905.8
F. Furniture                                    -        -        -             49.0       -       -          -        -           -     27.8     76.8
G. Technical Assistance
1. Policy Development                     306.7        -        -                -       -       -          -        -           -        -    306.7
2. Capacity Building                      673.5        -    197.9            441.6       -        -         -    154.8        65.2        -  1,533.0
3. Project Implementation                     -        -        -             43.0       -        -         -    130.8           -    387.1    560.9
Subtotal Technical Assistance               980.2        -    197.9            484.6       -        -         -    285.6        65.2    387.1  2,400.6
H. Training
1. External Training                      177.5        -    229.3            294.3       -       -          -     21.8        97.8     30.0    850.8
2. Local Training                           9.2        -     21.7             23.0       -        -         -     13.7       485.9     23.0    576.5
Subtotal Training                           186.7        -    251.0            317.3       -       -          -     35.5       583.7     53.1  1,427.3
Total Investment Costs                      1,230.8        -    800.5          1,273.7  1,089.5  2,043.7   4,566.8  14,281.9     730.5    534.7  26,552.3
11. Recurrent Costs
B. Medical Equipment O&M                        -        -        -                -    12.3      4.2     427.8    400.9           -        -    845.1
C. Office Equipment O&M                         -        -     45.7             25.4       -       -          -                    -      6.4     77.5
D. Vehicle O&M                                  -        -     11.5             23.0       -       -          -        -           -     11.5     46.1
E. Building O&M                                 -        -        -             11.1    40.8    82.3       34.2    291.0           -        -    459.5
F. Other                                        -       -      23.0               -        -       -         -        -           -       9.2     32.2
Total Recurrent Costs                            -        -      80.2             59.6    53.1    86.5      461.9    691.9          -      27.2  1,460.4
1,230.8       -    880.7           1,333.2  1,142.6  2,130.3   5,028.8  14,973.8    730.5    561.9  28,012.7
Taxes                                           -        -        -             18.3    76.8   164.7       57.4    610.5           -        -    927.7
Foreign Exchange                          1,071.4        -    752.7            997.0   465.3   710.7   4,080.8  10,354.2       230.8    416.9  19,079.9



18
C. PROJECT FINANCING
3.4   The proposed IDA Credit of US$17.0 million will finance about 60 percent of total
project costs, comprising 62 percent of the foreign exchange cost (US$11.9 million) and 64
percent of the local cost, excluding taxes (US$5.2 million). Co-financing is being sought to
cover technical assistance, and rehabilitation and equipping of the major institutions to be
supported under the Project, namely: Tirana Hospital, 3 polyclinics, the 37 primary health care
facilities, the Tirana Regional Health Authority, Ministry of Health, and the Health Insurance
Institute. Possible donors include the Government of Italy, Government of Switzerland, United
Kingdom Know-How Fund (UKKHF), Assistance Publique Hopitaux de Paris (APHP) and
USAID. The Government will finance the balance of project costs (US$2.4 million), including
duties and taxes. Financing of incremental operating costs comprising equipment maintenance
services and annual maintenance costs of computers and software (US$1.5 million equivalent),
will be shared by the Government with IDA contributions on a declining basis. Averaged over
the project life, the Government portion of recurrent expenditures represents less than one
percent of the projected 1998 operating budget for the MOH.
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
3.5   Overall responsibility for implementation of the Project rests with the MOH, while the
planned project activities will be managed and implemented by the various national and regional
institutions involved. The concerned MOH Departments, under leadership of the Minister of
Health, will maintain global oversight. Responsibility for day-to-day coordination, management
and monitoring will rest with the on-going Health Services Rehabilitation Project (Credit #2659-
ALB) PCU which will be strengthened to provide needed coordination and implementation
support. The enlarged PCU will comprise: a PCU Coordinator (for both IDA-financed projects),
two Project Directors (one for each Project), two accountants, a construction engineer, two
procurement specialists, two administrative assistants and a driver. Since the proposed Project is
expected to be supported by several donors, it is likely that they will choose to maintain their
own oversight mechanisms, with overall coordination of project activities to be carried out
through the PCU. All appointments for project management will be done according to criteria
satisfactory to IDA. Within the MOH, an interim Project Advisory Group has been established
to provide overall policy guidance for the health sector program, including the Bank- and other
donor-financed projects, and works in conjunction with the existing PCU. The Government
confirmed at Negotiations that, prior to Credit Effectiveness, the Project Advisory Group
will be formalized and will be maintained throughout project implementation. It will be
chaired by the Minister of Health and Environment, with the following as members:
Director of Economics and Finance Department, Director of Health Education Directorate,
Director of Human Resources Department, Director of Pharmaceuticals Department,
Director of Primary Health Care Department, Director of Hospital Department; Director
of Tirana Hospital; and Director, Health Insurance Institute (para. 5.2 (a)). The capacity of
the existing PCU will be strengthened accordingly under the proposed Project to accommodate



19
the additional responsibilities resulting from the increased activities. Arrangements for specific
components are as follows3:
National Capacity Building. This component supports the strengthening of the institutions
carrying out the Government's health sector strategy, and consists primarily of technical
assistance and training. Because most of this technical assistance and training will be provided
by other agencies, it is anticipated that the PCU role will provide mainly a coordination function
to ensure that the project activities are carried out in an integrated manner by the respective
Departments and other entities.
Regional Capacity Building for Governance and Management of the Health System in Tirana
Region. This component supports the establishment and operation of the Tirana Health
Authority, with its two operational bodies, the Regional Health Management Team and the
Management Board. Activities supported by the Project will consist of limited civil works,
provision of equipment and introduction of an information system, technical assistance and
training. The limited civil works activities under this component will be overseen by the PCU
and carried out by an external construction firm.
Upgrading of Tirana Health Care Delivery System. This component will support selected
investments in civil works, medical equipment and supplies for health care facilities at primary,
out-patient specialist and in-patient hospital levels, technical assistance to improve the delivery
system, and training of health professionals. Given the very limited capacity in the MOH, civil
works to be carried out under the Project will likely best be handled through hiring of a
construction management firm to provide the assessment, design and works supervision
competencies, with oversight from the related MOH departments, beneficiary management
institutions and the PCU. Technical assistance and training activities will be managed by the
respective MOH departments, with oversight from the PCU.
3.6   The Project will require about 20 weeks of Bank supervision per year during the four-
year implementation period. It must be stressed that the proposed Project will require consistent
supervisory support from the Bank.
E. PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
3.7   Items to be procured are grouped into major packages to encourage competitive bidding
and permit bulk procurement. The standard procurement table is shown in Table 6 of the PIP.
Procurement will be carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. Major procurement
categories include: about US$14.2 million to be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures; US$0.8 million for National Competitive Bidding (NCB);
US$450,000 through international shopping (IS); and US$50,000 through national shopping
(NS). US$46,000 will be procured through direct contracting (books, intellectual property, etc.).
It is anticipated that the bulk of the technical assistance will be procured in nine packages, at a
3Detailed plans are specified in the Project Implementation Plan, Annex 1. Since the proposed Project focuses on
health system development, its Director will have technical skills and relevant experience in health system.



20
cost of about US$4.3 million. Four of the nine packages will be implemented through parallel
financing. Total technical assistance using IDA funds will be US$2.1 million using World Bank
Consultant Guidelines. These assignments will be filled through a competitive process (Quality
Cost-Based procedures, according to World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (Jan. 1997)). Procurement arrangements and packages,
including estimated cost and time of completion, are presented in the PIP. Appropriate Bank
standard bidding documents will be used for the Project. A description of the capacity of the
implementing agency to carry out procurement is found in the PIP.
F. DISBURSEMENTS
3.8   The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four and a half years,
which is considerably shorter than the relevant profile in the Region (about seven years). The
shorter implementation period is possible due to the strong commitment of the MOH and the fact
that there is an on-going Health Services Rehabilitation Project (Cr. #2659) implementing
successfully. The closing date will be January 31, 2003. A summary of the disbursement plan
is shown in Tables 6 and 7 of the PIP.
3.9   To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account denominated in
US dollars. The authorized allocation will be US$900,000. However, during the initial stage of
the Project, an amount limited to US$300,000 will be deposited. When the aggregate amount of
disbursement reaches SDR 1.8 million, the amount deposited in the Special Account will be
increased to the full authorized allocation of US$900,000.
3.10  All disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding US$300,000
equivalent will be fully documented. For expenditures below that level, disbursements will be
made on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). This documentation will be
made available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision missions, and will be
retained by the PCU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year
in which the last disbursement was made. The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the
allocations of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and Borrower counterpart financing will be
managed by the PCU in coordination and consultation with the Ministry of Finance.
G. PROJECT AUDIT REPORTING AND EVALUATION
3.11  The PCU will be responsible for coordinating annual project audits and for fulfilling
reporting requirements. With respect to project accounts, including the Special Account, they
will be audited in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing
of Projects Financed by the World Bank" (March 1982), and will be provided by the Borrower
within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Further information concerning auditing is
provided in para. 38 of the PIP.
3.12  In addition, the PCU will be responsible for preparing semi-annual progress reports,
which will include: a summary of progress under each component, proposals for rescheduling of



21
activities where necessary, and actual disbursements and projections for the subsequent six-
month reporting period. The PIP includes a framework for systematic monitoring and evaluation
of progress in project implementation. It identifies a set of performance indicators to be used in
project supervision. Progress reporting under the Project is provided in more detail in para. 40 of
the PIP. During negotiations, assurances were provided that MOH will prepare semi-
annual descriptive and financial reports on each project component, objective and activity
(beginning from the date of Credit Effectiveness) (para. 5.1 (e)).
3.13  Mid-Term Review and Evaluation. By August 30, 2000 (or about two years after Credit
Effectiveness), the PCU will undertake jointly with IDA a mid-term review of progress in project
implementation to determine whether: i) the Project's intended objectives remain valid; ii)
implementation is advancing satisfactorily to justify its continued implementation; and iii) any
adjustments to, or significant restructuring of the Project are necessary to improve its
effectiveness. The Project Operational Manual (POM) will be updated following the mid-term
review and the annual work program for the following year will reflect the recommendations
made. During negotiation the Government provided assurances that a mid-term project
review will be conducted no later than August 30, 2000, according to terms of reference
agreed with IDA (para. 5.1 (f)).
H. STATUS OF PREPARATION
3.14 During preparation, the MOH working groups which were established under the Health
Services Rehabilitation Project prepared detailed proposals for each component. This structure
has remained in place and, under the Project, the heads of these working groups will form the
Project Advisory Group which will be maintained throughout Project implementation. Based on
the working group proposals, the detailed PIP was prepared; this document will serve as the basis
for the more detailed POM which will be developed for use by Project management in the
implementation of the Project. The POM will be prepared according to standards satisfactory to
IDA, by Project Effectiveness. The organizational structure for project implementation as
described in the PIP has been established.
3.15  Implementation and coordination responsibilities between the MOH and the other
agencies involved in the Project have been defined. The principal staff for implementation are in
place and are supported by technical staff within the MOH. The PIP includes a detailed
description of the project coordination and implementation responsibilities. The existing PCU of
the Health Services Rehabilitation Project is in the process of being expanded to include a new
team to manage the proposed Project.



4. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS
4.1   The Project will support the immediate restoration of health services to the
population, thereby preventing outbreaks of communicable diseases, avoidable
complications of common illnesses and premature deaths. It will support fundamental
improvements in the structure and functions of the health system, thereby fulfilling pre-
conditions for effectiveness and sustainability. It will also support improvements in the
quality of clinical services and an increased emphasis on the prevention of communicable
and non-communicable diseases.
4.2   Estimated productivity gains: The Project is consistent with and supports the
Bank's proposed economic strategy for Albania, i.e., the restoration of fiscal balance and
an emphasis on medium-term sustainability and national capacity building. In an under-
financed sector of the economy like the health sector, where resource cuts are neither
justified nor feasible, and where the human development consequences of failure are
substantial, the economic rationale lies in increasing effectiveness, productivity and
quality. It is estimated that most of the productivity gains will come from improvements
in organization and management. The Project will yield efficiency gains from a
restructured system at the National and Regional (Tirana) levels. Given the extremely
unwieldy state of the current bureaucracy, the potential for improvements is large and an
estimated efficiency gain of 10% is reasonable. If the health sector expenditure
(including foreign aid) remains at 5% of GDP, the Project will result in a stream of
productivity gains equivalent to 0.5% of GDP per year in the medium term. The
following paragraphs provide detailed considerations underpinning the quantitative
estimates cited above.
4.3   National capacity building for health system reform will support improvements in
the economic efficiency of the health sector by strengthening the institutions responsible
for governance and regulation, the MOH, the HII and the IPH. Efficiency gains in the
sector are contingent upon the existence of accountability, clarity of managerial and
administrative roles, and appropriate incentive structures. Improvements in institutional
capacity and governance will enhance the sustainability of the overall reform strategy and
facilitate improvements in financing and delivery mechanisms. In this regard, the
emphasis on the Health Insurance Institute (HII) is appropriate. It is an ongoing, and so
far successful element of the Government's reform strategy for health. The
Government's gradual introduction of health insurance is well conceived, especially
when compared to recent experience with payroll-based health insurance in other former



23
socialist countries, where tax evasion and high unemployment rates have eroded the
revenue base for health care. Expansion of the role of the HII, and its ability to contract
services and raise revenues (moves that are supported by the Project) are essential for the
overall viability of the health financing system at a time when the traditional budget
financing structures are threatened with collapse. But it must be pursued carefully as
planned so that the proposed limited investments in infrastructure, information systems
and technical assistance for the HII will ensure the success of the HII as a vehicle for
health sector reform.
4.4   Improvements in the governance and management of health system in Tirana will
initiate actual decentralization of management and regulation of the health system to the
most populated region of the country, where the full range of health services (although at
a low quality level) exist and where the need for restructuring is the most acute. To that
extent, the benefits could be the most visible in the quickest time. Rational
decentralization will have a dual effect, enhancing systemic efficiency and cost-
effectiveness, while improving accessibility of the health system to the population. As is
the case throughout Albania, the structure of health services in the Tirana region is highly
fragmented and uncoordinated, resulting in very inefficient resource allocation.
Restructuring of management functions through the Regional Management Authority will
reduce waste, and facilitate major efficiency gains. Successful implementation of the
Tirana pilot will allow the adoption of similar measures in the rest of the country.
4.5    Upgrading of Tirana health care delivery system: Two considerations are central
to the expected benefits from this component:
(a)    On the one hand, being a feeble, under-equipped system with poor
infrastructure, the health sector requires significant investments to meet
the minimum criteria for a modern health care delivery system, even at
Albania's level of income.
(b)   On the other hand, once the structures are upgraded, and the management
and clinical skills meet current standards of effectiveness, the
improvements in organization, accessibility, population coverage, service
utilization and quality of care will result in significantly better health
outcomes in the medium term.
4.6          The benefits will accrue from (b) minus (a) above, due to reductions in the
costs of poor quality (i.e., doing things right the first time, thereby avoiding the costs of
needless complications and deaths).
4.7   Finally, as a major vehicle to implement its Sector Recovery and Development
Strategy, the proposed Project constitutes a powerful tool for the Government to make the
best use possible of external resources. Donors have expressed their support for the
strategy defined by the Government and the Project provides the required mechanism to
implement this strategy. Although impossible to measure, a major benefit of the Project



24
will be its potential to minimize inefficiencies, wasteful overlaps and gaps related to poor
donor coordination.
B. PROJECT RISKS
4.8   There are three major sets of risks to the Project. The first is that political and
social upheavals could preclude the stability needed for effective implementation and
institutional development. This risk will be mitigated by: (a) the benefits to major
stakeholders of cooperation in all aspects of the recovery program, and (b) the emphasis
on improving community ownership of, and involvement in, health service planning,
organization and management. Specifically, Local Health Advisory Committees will be
established at the commune level, with inputs into the local planning of health service
delivery. Health Advisory Committees will be established at the Regional/District
Levels, to work with District Health Management Teams and the proposed Tirana
Regional Health Authority in health planning, service delivery and management, and to
improve responsiveness of the health sector to local problems. Representatives of the
NGO Forum will be encouraged to participate as members of the management teams for
districts and hospitals. Further details are shown in the Health Sector Strategy Matrix
(Annex 6, Section C). The second risk is that weak national capacity for implementation
could hinder effective implementation. This risk will be mitigated by specifying
responsibilities for implementation prior to project effectiveness and by appropriate use
of external technical assistance. Prior agreement with the Government on the need for
technical assistance for the Project Coordination Unit has been emphasized. Finally,
fiscal instability could make it difficult for the Government to meet its counterpart
financing commitments under the Project and to operate services effectively beyond the
initial phase. This risk will be mitigated by limiting required counterpart funds to the
most essential recurrent expenditures. Given the weaknesses of the Albanian economy
and its recent history of political and social strife, expectations of local implementation
capacity, counterpart funds and speed of implementation must remain realistic and
modest.



25
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
The following actions are required to assure successful implementation of the Project and
attainment of the broader Project objectives.
Assurances Provided at Negotiations
5.1   During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)   The Tirana Regional Health Authority (consisting of the Tirana Regional
Health Management Team and its Management Board) will be established
through an order of the Ministry of Health and Environment before Project
Effectiveness and maintained throughout project implementation (para.
2.5).
(b)   Technical assistance to be procured from IDA resources under the Project
will be procured as planned, unless alternative Grants are secured, in
writing and satisfactory to IDA (2.3)
(c)   The Government will: (i) commit adequate resources to capacity building,
including the training of nationals and procurement of crucial external
technical assistance; (ii) strengthen priority public health policies and
services, while also improving the quality of clinical services; and (iii)
assure that all project personnel meet criteria satisfactory to the Minister of
Health and Environment and the Association (para. 2.3).
(d)   Agreements related to the PCU:
(i)   With regard to the PCU, it was agreed that the Health System
Recovery and Development Project would have a separate Project
Director, in addition to the existing Project Director for the on-going
Health Rehabilitation Project, i.e., each Project would have its own
Director. Terms of References (TORs) for this position (Project Director,
Health System Recovery and Development Project) were agreed upon and
are attached to the Minutes (para. 2.8).



26
(ii)   A new position of overall Coordinator of the PCU would be
created. TORs for this position were agreed upon and are attached to the
Minutes (para. 2.8).
(iii) A new PCU Procurement Specialist would be hired specifically for
the Health System Recovery and Development Project. It was agreed that,
initially, this person would work with and be mentored by the existing
Procurement Specialist, and would receive technical assistance and
training during the course of project implementation (para. 2.8).
(e)   The PCU will prepare semi-annual descriptive and financial reports on
each component (para 3.12);
(f)   A mid-term project review will be conducted in accordance with TORs
agreed with IDA no later than August 30, 2002 (para 3.13).
Condition of Effectiveness
(a)   The Project Advisory Group will be established before Project
Effectiveness and maintained throughout project implementation. The
Project Advisory Group will be chaired by the Minister, with the
following as members: Director of Economics and Finance Department,
Director of Health Education Directorate, Director of Human Resources
Department, Director of Pharmaceuticals Department, Director of Primary
Health Care Department, Director of Hospital Department; Director,
Tirana Hospital; and Director, Health Insurance Institute (para 3.5).
Recommendation
Subject to the above, the proposed operation provides a suitable basis for a Credit
of US$17.0 million to the Government of the Republic of Albania.



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
ANNEX 1



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
INTRODUCTION
This Project Implementation Plan (PIP) reflects largely the outcomes of the
preparation and appraisal missions for the proposed Project, and the proposals and
technical discussions with the working groups established by the Ministry of Health
(MOH). The PIP presents the general framework for project implementation by the
Borrower, and outlines: (a) the project objectives; (b) project management and
implementation responsibilities and activities; (c) project costs and financing plan;
(d) procurement arrangements; and (e) implementation, monitoring and evaluation
processes and procedures. While the implementation of the Project is inherently
dynamic, this PIP seeks to clearly outline the general principles agreed with the MOH,
according to which the Project will be carried out.



2
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP)
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION  ....................................................                                    1
I.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives ..............................                  ......................          4
B. Project Description .....................................................    4
II.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management .....................................................    5
B. Agreements Between Borrower and Implementing Agencies  ...... ....                                 5
C. Summary of Implementation Responsibilities  ............                      .................    6
D. Implementation Arrangements by Component ...........                          .................    8
E. Detailed Project Activities by Component .............                     ....................    1 1
F. Project Operational Manual ..................................................                    13
III.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Costs  ....................                 .................................            15
B. Project Financing   ..............................                 ......................        17
C. Administration of Project Funds  ............................... .............                   19
D. Project Procurement Arrangements ......................                   ...................     19
E. Disbursements  .....................                   ...............................           24
F. Role of the World Bank in Supervision  ................                   ....................    26
G. Administrative Arrangements  ................................................                    26
H. Implementation Schedule  .....................................................    26
IV.  MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation  ..............                    ...................    28
B. Indicator Tables  ........................                 ............................          28



3
Table of Contents
(Continued)
Page No.
Table  1: Project Cost Summary by Component ...........            ..................  15
Table 2: Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditure ....... ......  16
Table 3: Summary of Costs by Component and by Financier ..............  18
Table 4:  Summary of Costs by Expenditure Category and Financier  ....  19
Table 5: Procurement Arrangements ........................ ...................   20
Table 6: Summary of Procurement Packages for Civil Works .............  22
Table 7: Summary of Procurement for Equipment ...........................  22
Table 8:  Summary of the Procurement Packages for Technical
Assistance and Training ..............................................   23
Table 9: Disbursements by Year ..............................................   24
Table  10: Disbursement Categories .............................................  25
Table  11: Staff Weeks by Specialization ........................................  26
Table 12: Input Indicators ........................      ......................   29
Table 13: Output Indicators .....................................................    30
Table 14: Outcome Indicators .....................................................   31
APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Implementation Schedule
Appendix 2: Cost Tables
Appendix 3: List of Medical Equipment to be Procured
Appendix 4: Implementation Responsibilities/Resource Requirements



4
I. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
1.    The overall goal of the proposed Project is to improve health status and contribute to
increased well-being and productivity of the population, as described in Chapter 1 of the SAR.
Specifically, the Project aims to: (i) establish/strengthen sound institutional and human
resource capacities to ensure effectiveness and sustainability of the health sector; and (ii)
support efforts to reduce avoidable illnesses and premature deaths. Therefore, the Project
will:
(a)   rationalize and strengthen the governance structure and management capacity at
the national and regional levels; and
(b)   improve the effectiveness and quality of health service delivery in the Tirana
Region through upgrading of selected health facilities as part of a rational regional
health system. The proposed Health System Recovery and Development Project will
build upon the initial achievements and lessons learned from the on-going Health
Services Rehabilitation Project by expanding the geographic scope of infrastructure
rehabilitation and by supporting the institutionalization of techniques to improve the
quality of service delivery.
B. Project Description
2.    The proposed Project has four components: National Capacity Building; Governance
and Management of Health System in Tirana Region; Upgrading of Tirana Health Care
Delivery System; and Project Management. It will be implemented over a period of four
years. Total project costs, including contingencies, taxes and duties, are estimated at US$28.0
million equivalent (US$24.5 million base cost). The Project will finance medical and office
equipment, external and local training and specialist services, civil works for medical facilities
and office upgrading for the Health Insurance Institute (HII) and Tirana Regional Authority
(TRHA), and incremental operational costs generated by the investments.



5
II. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
3.    Overall responsibility for implementation of the Health System Recovery and
Development Project rests with the Ministry of Health, while the activities planned under the
Project will be managed and implemented by the various national and regional institutions
concerned. The MOH departments, under leadership of the Minister, will maintain global
oversight. Responsibility for day-to-day coordination, management and monitoring will rest
with the on-going Health Services Rehabilitation Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which will
be strengthened to provide needed coordination and implementation support. Since the
proposed Project is expected to be supported by several donors, it is likely that they will
choose to maintain their own oversight mechanisms, with overall coordination of project
activities to be carried out by the PCU. The capacity of the existing PCU will be expanded
and strengthened accordingly under the proposed Project to accommodate the additional
responsibilities resulting from the increased activities. In order to carry out its functions, the
PCU will continue to be staffed by a Project Coordinator, supported by a core team financed
under both the existing Project and the proposed Project. The PCU team, with the added
responsibilities of the proposed Project, will comprise: (i) a PCU Coordinator; (ii) two
Project Directors, one for each Project; (iii) two accountants; (iv) one construction engineer;
(v) two procurement specialists; (vi) two administrative assistants; and (vii) one driver. The
PCU management, i.e., Project Coordinator and the two Project Directors, will report directly
to the Minister of Health and Environment. The PCU Coordinator will be responsible for
coordination of both the existing and the proposed projects and other donor-related activities
within the MOH, as well as assuring coordination between MOH and Regional and District
authorities. The two Project Directors will be responsible for implementation of their
respective projects. To assist this team, external technical support for the PCU will be
provided for under the Project, mainly in the development and implementation of procurement
procedures and organization of training programs, considering the limited experience of MOH
in these areas.
4.    The Heads of Departments in the MOH, the Director of Tirana Hospital and the
director of HII will form a Project Advisory Group which will be chaired by the Minister of
Health and Environment. This group will advise the Minister on policy issues related to the
implementation of the Project. The number of members of the Group, units/organizations to
be represented in the group, and the frequency of meetings may be revised as required, on
recommendation of the PCU Manager. The Advisory Group will be responsible for providing
policy advice and guidance during the project implementation period. The Advisory Group
will be assisted by special task forces which it will convene as necessary.
B. Agreements Between Borrower and Implementation Agencies
5.    The Borrower is the Govermnent of the Republic of Albania represented by its
Ministry of Finance (MOF). The MOH will be the implementing agency for the Project.



6
Assurances have been obtained from the MOH administration that adequate funding, based on
the project financing plan, will be made available in a timely manner and necessary steps will
be taken to expedite the procurement procedures related to major equipment.
C. Summary of Implementation Responsibilities
6.    The Project will be implemented in close coordination and collaboration with the
central and regional/district offices of the MOH, other donor-funded activities in the health
sector (e.g., EU, Government of Italy, United Kingdom Know-How Fund [KHF], USAID),
and other ongoing projects in related sectors (e.g., Health Services Rehabilitation (Cr. # 2659-
ALB), and Social Safety Net Project (Credit # 2543-ALB).
7.    From the operational point of view, the Project will be implemented by the existing
departments of the MOH with technical assistance provided, as needed. In each Department of
the MOH, a contact person has been identified to work with the project team for
implementation activities.
8.    The responsibilities regarding general project management are:
(a)   MOH:
(i)   to establish and secure the functional operation of the PCU and the
Project Advisory Group;
(ii)  to supervise project activities to ensure the successful and timely
implementation of the project;
(iii)  to set the policies, strategies and targets to ensure achievement of project
objectives; to review them as required; and to take necessary steps to secure the
Government's political commitment required for implementation of health sector
reform activities; and
(iv)   to ensure that financial resources are provided from the Credit and that
Government funds are made available in a timely manner.
(b)   Project Advisory Group:
(i)   to set the policies, strategies and targets in order to ensure the
achievement of the project objectives, and review them as required;
(ii)  to provide guidance and advice to the PCU Manager on the timely
implementation of project activities;
(iii)  to ensure the coordination of public and private agencies involved in the
implementation of the Project; and



7
(iv)   to set the principles and procedures to be applied in coordinating with
international institutions.
(c)   PCU:
(i)   to undertake planning, coordination, management, monitoring and
reporting functions for all activities financed under the Project;
(ii)   to monitor project expenditures and costs (local and foreign), process
credit disbursement applications in collaboration with the Savings Bank of
Albania, and track disbursements of the Credit and Government funds; and
maintain project records and accounts;
(iii)  to ensure compliance with the procurement procedures to be agreed with
the Bank in the acquisition of equipment and software packages, administration
of suppliers' and technical assistance contracts; to ensure consolidation of
requests and procurement of goods and services, in accordance with World
Bank Guidelines;
(iv)   to ensure preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic reports
(Progress Report) to the relevant government and other participating
institutions, including the Bank, reflecting: (a) the status of implementation
progress, problems encountered and corrective actions needed; and (b) current
costs of each project component and estimated costs of completion;
(v)   to ensure the timely preparation and submission to relevant government
institutions and the Bank of annual audit reports of project expenditure,
including Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and accounts;
(vi)  to ensure the movement of official documents and contracts through the
usual approval processes and undertake measures to expedite their release;
(vii)  to ensure the most efficient use of project resources; financial, staffing
and time; to develop administrative and operational procedures for this purpose;
(viii) to ensure coordination with other donor-funded activities to ensure that
all externally funded activities support the MOH's medium-term strategy for
sector reform; and
(ix)   to ensure the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) within six months after Project completion.



8
D. Implementation Arrangements by Component
9.    The paragraphs below discuss implementation arrangements and activities for each of
the four components of the Project. Detailed cost tables and implementation schedules related
to the specific components are found in the Appendices to this Annex.
Component 1: National Capacity Building
10.   This component comprises two subcomponents covering national capacity building for:
Ministry of Health (MOH) and Health Insurance Institute (HII). The first subcomponent -
MOH Capacity Building - will be implemented by the Ministry of Health itself, with the help
of the PCU. The respective departments - Pharmaceutical, Hospital, Primary Health
Care/Public Health, Health Education Directorate, and Economics and Finance - will be
responsible for the implementation of this sub-component. The Pharmaceutical Department
will be responsible for coordinating activities to strengthen capacity for policy formulation in
pharmaceutical sector through staff training and technical assistance. Initial technical
assistance will be for assessment of needs for policy formulation, drafting of TORs for further
specialist assistance, and definition of next steps required in policy development, based on
earlier work done under the on-going Health Services Rehabilitation Project. The Department,
based on the assessment, will send two staff abroad (3 months each) to be trained on
pharmaceutical policy issues, and afterwards, they will work in conjunction with the technical
experts in policy formulation.
11.   The Hospital Department, with the support of technical assistance provided under the
Project, will be responsible for organizing all necessary activities for changes in legislation
and regulations, i.e., setting minimum standards for health care and health outcomes. These
activities will be coordinated by this department, with cooperation and involvement of the
Faculty of Medicine, and of the University Hospital. A committee will be established
comprising key specialists from these institutions, and will be supported by technical assistance
provided under the Project. The committee will focus on the development of minimum
standards and the adaptation of clinical protocols for use in Albania.
12.   Primary Health Care/Public Health Department is already receiving substantial
assistance from EU PHARE. Strategy has been designed and documented. Assistance will be
for them to implement this strategy country-wide.
13.   The Economics and Finance Department comprises two units - Investment and Finance.
For the Investment Unit, the Project will support technical assistance (12 months in the first
two years) and fellowships (2 persons for 1 year each abroad) in asset planning (physical
facilities - equipment and financial). For the Finance Unit, support will be provided for
development of information and accountability systems (USAID technical assistance), and for
budgeting procedures. In addition, one staff member will be sent abroad on a one-year
fellowship in the area of health finance planning and budgeting.



9
14.   The Head of the Health Education Department will be responsible for collaborating
with the technical assistance provided under the Project to develop a strategy for health
promotion.
15.   The second subcomponent - Capacity Building in the Health Insurance Institute - will
include activities designed to build on initial institutional development begun under the on-
going project. HII will assume an increased level of financial management from the Ministry
of Health through introduction of a new financial management system. It is envisioned that
during the course of the project, this system will be expanded to include the primary health
care sub-sector in the Tirana Region (as a pilot intervention) and, based on this experience, the
system will eventually expand to cover the whole country. The Director of the HII will have
overall responsibility for coordination of these activities and in addition will direct the
establishment of a basic information system designed to link peripheral/district offices with
Tirana headquarters. MIS systems will be utilized to enable HII to manage these
peripheral/district centers. HII staff will be trained in decentralized financial mechanism
procedures and in computer skills. EU PHARE is currently providing technical assistance to
support further extension of the health insurance scheme in specialist services (out-patient and
in-patient), and is expected to continue this support. EU PHARE is also providing support for
the development of legal and regulatory framework for private practice. UK Know How Fund
has been involved since the inception of the Health Insurance Fund, through assistance in
organizational and management procedures, as well as in developing the provider payment
mechanisms at the primary care level and related training activities. The Director of the
Institute will select two staff during the first year to participate in long-term training abroad in
health planning and health financing. The Director will also select individual branch office
staff (eight staff for 2 months each) to participate in short-term overseas training in financing
mechanisms and procedures.
Component 2: Governance and Management of Health System -- Tirana Regional Health
Authority
16.   Under the Project, a new decentralized health management structure will be established
to provide health planning and management for the Tirana Region. The Ministry of Health
will be responsible for organizing legislation and regulations for the establishment of the
Regional Board and Regional Team. Initially, the Ministry of Health will identify a building
to be renovated for use by the Regional Health Authority, i.e., Board and Team, and will be
responsible for the overall supervision of civil works, and purchase of furniture and
equipment. During the same period, six staff, to be selected by the Minister of Health, will be
sent on overseas long-term training in the areas of public health and health planning and
management. Technical assistance will be required for 27 person-months to provide support
for planning, finance and management. Short-term fellowships and study tours, as well as
local training, will be coordinated by the Regional Health Authority during years 2 and 3 of
the Project, as needed.
Component 3: Tirana Regional Health System Delivery
17.   The Regional Health Authority (RHA), with support from the PCU, will have overall
responsibility for implementation of the urban and rural rehabilitation programs. The RHA Technical



10
Unit (comprising architects and engineers), in coordination with the PCU, will be responsible for the
procurement of rehabilitation contracts as well as the day-to-day supervision of civil works. Training
will be provided to the an engineer in the RHA Technical Unit in procurement methods for medical
equipment, and he or she will be responsible for preparing the technical specifications for the bidding
process. The PCU will conduct the bidding process in collaboration with the Technical Unit.
18.   The hospital rehabilitation program will be under the overall responsibility of the Director of
the Tirana University Hospital Center (THC). The THC Technical Unit of the Center will be
responsible, in coordination with the PCU and MOH Investment Sector, for the review and approval of
preliminary and final hospital rehabilitation plans. Within the management unit of the hospital, two
Albanian professionals (architect, engineer) will be assigned full-time to the hospital rehabilitation
program. Their task will be to prepare the architectural program as well as the specification of
equipment and preparation of all bidding documentation for civil works and goods. Hospital planning
technical assistance will be contracted to assist the technical arm of the Center in this task. The
procurement of the hospital rehabilitation contract, which will be awarded through ICB, will be
conducted by the PCU, in close coordination with the Technical Unit. Equipment lists and
specifications for both general services and medical equipment will be prepared by the Technical Unit
with the assistance of equipment specialists contracted for this purpose. Training will be provided to
the Technical Unit staff in procurement methods for medical equipment. The PCU will conduct the
bidding process in collaboration with the Technical Unit. In the post-crisis period, to guarantee
adequate functioning of the hospital, and therefore maximization of the planned investments, the
Project will support the non-salary operational expenditures of the hospital through financing of
procurement of carefully selected and essential consumables and supplies. This support will be on a
declining basis. Based on 1996 actual expenditures, the Project will finance 50%, 30% and 20%
respectively over years 1, 2 and 3, in order to gradually restore the internal capacity to sustain
operations. For hospital management training, beginning in year one, two hospital administration staff
will be selected for short-term overseas training (each course will be 3 months in length) in specific
areas of hospital management. In the second year, two two-week courses will be held for Department
Heads (Tirana Hospital), with support of external advisors. Chief Nurses' training will be carried out
in year 2, with four one-month courses (20 participants in each), and assisted by two technical advisors
to design curriculum and run courses.
U1pgrading Professional Skills. The Tirana Regional Health Authority will be responsible for
implementation of the training program for general practitioners and nurses/midwives of
Tirana Region. EU PHARE is currently financing a similar program on a national basis, and
this proposed training will supplement and eventually complete training of all general
practitioners and nurses/midwives for Tirana Region. It is expected that around 250 general
practitioners and 900 nurses/midwives will be trained by the end of the Project. Training
methodology for general practitioners will involve training of trainers abroad (6 persons for 6
months each), followed by training of staff locally (3 month sessions). Two expatriate nurses
will train 12 local trainers, followed by training of staff locally (1 and 1/2 month sessions).
The Project could use professionals already trained under the current EU PHARE program,
according to their availability.
Component 4: Project Management
The detailed information concerning project management is outlined in Section 2a of the
Project Implementation Plan.



11
E. Detailed Project Activities by Component
19.   Detailed activities under each component are summarized below. A detailed project
implementation schedule is given in Appendix 1.
Component 1: National Capacity Building.
(i)    Capacity Building in the Ministry of Health (MOH . For the Pharmaceutical
Department, technical assistance for initial assessment of needs for pharmaceutical
policy formulation (3 months) will be selected shortly after Project Effectiveness. Staff
overseas training (3 months for 2 persons) for specific aspects of pharmaceutical policy
will take place after topics for training and staff have been selected (second half of year
one). Also after Project Effectiveness, office equipment and materials will be procured
for the Pharmaceutical Department. After TORs are specified, the additional technical
assistance (12 months over years 1 and 2) will begin. For the Hospital Department,
technical assistance for hospital sector policy (4 months) will be selected only after the
establishment of a committee for setting minimum standards for health care and health
outcomes. Technical assistance for strategy implementation for Primary Health
Care/Public Health Department will begin in year 1 and continue for project life (3
months each year). Annual workshops for relevant staff in the MOH (Headquarters
and district offices) will be arranged. For Health Education Directorate, technical
assistance will be provided for situation assessment of non-communicable diseases and
injuries (3 months for year 1). In addition, 9 months of technical assistance will be
provided for national strategy formulation on health education promotion. For the
Economics and Finance Department, some activities will be supported by donor
funding.
(ii)   Capacity Building - Health Insurance Institute (HII). The MOH and HII will
prepare the necessary legal framework (Government decree) to include the PHC of
Tirana Region in the Health Insurance scheme on a pilot basis. TA for overall
management of HII development activities will begin at Effectiveness (3 months/year
for 4 years). With the support of this TA, HII staff in Tirana Region will begin training
(seminars) in management and financing procedures for the new system. Also directly
after Effectiveness, the procurement process for the management information system,
e.g., 50 computers, software, etc., for Tirana Region, which will be carried out using
International Shopping procedures, will begin. Training seminars for the HII district
staff to familiarize them with new procedures will take place during years 3 and 4.
Two Headquarters HII staff will be sent for overseas training in health finance and
planning (9 months each) during the first year of the Project. Eight staff from the
branch offices will be trained in two months courses, starting in year 1. This training
will be complemented by a series of study tours organized throughout the duration of
the project.
Component 2: Tirana Regional Health Authority (TRHA) System Delivery.
(i)    Rehabilitation work on the selected building for TRHA management will begin
as soon as possible after Project Effectiveness, with one contract being let under



12
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. At the same time, six staff, to be
selected by the MOH, will be sent on overseas training in health planning and
management, public health, etc. (4 people for 9 months each), while two equipment
engineers will be trained for 6 months each in biomedical standards during year 2.
Technical assistance (4 people in the areas of: 6 months to support developing structure
and strategy of TRHA, 9 months for health planning and finance; 6 months for human
resources planning and development; and 6 months for health information collection
and elaboration) will be selected to provide support and guidance in developing the new
institutional framework, and to start the process of planning and implementation, as
well as to give on-the-job training to local staff. Parallel to building rehabilitation,
office equipment and furniture will be procured. Ten staff will be selected for three
months training in specific aspects of health planning and finance, public health, etc.,
according to needs and timing defined by the Director of TRHA. Staff will also be
selected in years 2 and 3 for study tours (US$32,000) to provide exposure to similar
organizations in different countries, while at the same time fostering relations with
foreign counterpart organizations.
Component 3: Tirana Regional Health System Delivery.
(i)    During the second year of project implementation, the already established
TRHA, in close coordination with the PCU, will carry out the rehabilitation program
of the PHC centers: procurement of civil works for rural and urban areas and
equipment packages. To this end, the TRHA will contract outside architectural,
procurement and supervising civil works services. The technical assistance experts
hired for rehabilitation of the Tirana University Hospital will provide assistance to the
TRHA in developing specifications for civil works for the polyclinics. The equipment
specialist hired by TRHA will prepare the specifications for the equipment lists with
special attention to the outpatient specialized polyclinics, during his training in year 2.
(ii)   For the Technical Unit of the Tirana University Hospital, two Albanian
professionals will be appointed full time in year 1 of the project. The Technical Unit at
the Tirana Hospital and the PCU will contract services for architectural program and
preparation of all bidding documents for civil works (rehabilitation and new
construction) and general services equipment, beginning in year 1. At the same time,
for the preparation of medical equipment lists and technical specifications, an external
equipment specialist will be contracted for 8 months over the course of the project.
(iii) During years 2 and 3, the Director of the Tirana University Hospital will
select two people to be trained in specific aspects of hospital administration (three
months each). During year 2, the Directorate will make a twinning arrangement for the
implementation of hospital management training activities for department heads and
chief nurses.
(iv)   Professional Skills Training. The overall training program to upgrade
professional skills for general practitioners and nurses/midwives will be carried out
with the support of a technical assistance contract. Selection process for the consulting
firm contract will begin immediately upon Project Effectiveness. It is envisioned that



13
the training will proceed in the following manner: In year 2, the Director of Tirana
Regional Health Team will select 6 GPs to be trained abroad for six months each to
develop a methodology based on the existing curricula prepared by the EU PHARE
program. At the same time, 12 nurses will be trained as trainers locally through 2
month courses taught by two external consultants. Parallel to the training, didactic
materials will be reproduced and 6 classrooms will be equipped with furniture and AV
to be used for 3 months training courses for GPs and 6 weeks training courses for
nurses/midwives.
Component 4: Project Management
To achieve effective management of the Bank interventions in the health sector,
the capacity of the current PCU management team will be increased to provide the
expertise required to handle the increased needs of project implementation. A PCU
Coordinator will be appointed with overall responsibility for the PCU and external
relations with donors. Each project -- Health Services Rehabilitation and Health
System Recovery and Development -- will have a Project Director. A new PCU
Procurement Specialist will be hired specifically for the Health System Recovery and
Development Project. Initially, this person will work with and be mentored by the
existing Procurement Specialist, and will receive technical assistance and training
during the course of Project implementation. A vehicle, and additional furniture and
office equipment to meet their needs will be procured according to International
Shopping procedures. Technical assistance will be provided for project management
support on a declining basis throughout project implementation. Training for PCU
staff will be provided in the form of fellowships, study tours, and workshops.
F. Project Operational Manual
20.   Each implementing technical department/unit will ensure that its respective project
activities are carried out in accordance with agreed project objectives and performance targets.
A Project Operational Manual (POM) is being compiled by the PCU from documents
developed during project preparation and appraisal, using the PIP as the basis. The POM will
be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank. The POM will constitute the
implementation guidelines for each component, and will include detailed TORs for consulting
services, base implementation schedules and procedures, performance targets and monitoring
indicators, detailed cost estimates, and technical background as appropriate. Specific tasks
assigned in the POM for which the implementing departments/units will typically be
responsible include:
(a)   in collaboration with the PCU: (i) finalizing TORs for the specialist services,
feasibility studies, and training required in their respective parts of the Project;
(ii) assigning bid evaluation committees; (iii) evaluating proposals received for
consulting services; and (iv) authorizing the award of contracts;
(b)   monitoring the implementation of local training and seminars; and identifying
and tapping local expertise to assist in activities such as preparation of detailed
procedures and updating implementation schedules;



14
(c)   preparing periodic reports on the implementation progress of their respective
components and submitting these to the PCU for inclusion in the semi-annual report of
project performance; and
(d)   preparing physical and financial forecasts of future activities required to
implement the components of the Project, and forwarding these estimates to the PCU
for inclusion in budgetary proposals for the succeeding implementation year.



15
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Costs
21.    Summary of Project Costs. The total cost of the Health System Development Project
is estimated at about US$28.0 million, or about 4.5 billion Albania Leke equivalent, including
contingencies, taxes and duties. The total base cost is estimated at US$24.5 million. Physical
contingencies are estimated at US$2.3 million. Price contingencies between negotiations
(March 1998) and the end of the four-year project implementation period will amount to about
US$1.2 million, or 5 percent of base cost. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
about US$19.1 million, including contingencies, or about 68 percent of total cost. Taxes and
duties are estimated at US$0.9 million equivalent. The tax project exempt status of technical
assistance expenditure will be confirmed at negotiations.
22.    The total project cost includes fellowships, training, technical assistance, studies,
computer hardware and software, training materials, refurbishment of facilities, and
incremental recurrent costs generated by the Project. The project costs include about 239
million Leke, or US$1.5 million to cover incremental operating costs directly attributable to
the Project during the four-year implementation period. Equipment operation and
maintenance, and materials and supplies account for most of the project's incremental
recurrent costs. The estimated project costs by component and expenditure category are
summarized in Tables 1 and 2 below. Detailed costs are shown in detail in Appendix 2.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
%     % Total
(US$ '000)           Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign     Total   Exchange Costs
A. National Capacity Building
Ministry of Health                        148.1     998.0    1,146.1       87      5
Health Insurance Institute                112.6     680.0      792.6       86      3
Subtotal National Capacity Building         260.7   1,678.0    1,938.7      87       8
B. Governance and Management of Health
System - Tirana
Regional Health Authority                 296.8     912.9    1,209.7       75      5
Subtotal Governance and Management of       296.8     912.9    1,209.7      75       5
Health System - Tirana
C. Tirana Health Service Delivery
PHC Rural Areas                           587.1     406.8      993.9      41       4
PHC Urban Areas                          1,226.6    615.5    1,842.1       33      8
Polyclinics                               824.4   3,581.0    4,405.4      81      18
Hospitals                                3,983.3   9,014.5   12,997.9      69     53
Upgrading Professional Skills             438.6     209.4      648.0       32      3
Subtotal Tirana Health Service Delivery   7,060.0  13,827.2   20,887.2      66      85
D. Project Management                       130.2     379.8      510.0      74       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                       7,747.7  16,797.9   24,545.6      68    100
Physical Contingencies                    756.5   1,547.8    2,304.2       67      9
Price Contingencies                       428.6     734.2    1,162.9       63      5
Total PROJECT COSTS                        8,932.8  19,079.9   28,012.7      68    114



16
Table 2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
%      % Total
(US$'000)            Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange   Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Rehabilitation of Physical Facilities
1. Rural Primary Health Centers        499.0      232.9    731.8        32          3
2. Urban Primary Health Centers       1,066.5     497.7  1,564.2        32          6
3. Specialized Polyclinics             375.0      175.0    550.0        32          2
4. Tirana Hospital                    3,155.7   2,629.8  5,785.5        45         24
5. Other Building Rehabilitation       144.0       32.0    176.0        18          1
Subtotal Rehabilitation of Physical     5,240.2   3,567.3  8,807.5        41         36
Facilities
B. Architectural/Engineering Services    217.8      267.1    484.8        55          2
C. Medical Equipment/Supplies            432.9   8,225.6  8,658.5          95        35
D. Pharmaceuticals                        48.0      912.0    960.0        95          4
E. Office Equipment and Vehicles          40.2      763.2    803.4        95          3
F. Furniture                               10.4      58.7      69.0        85
G. Technical Assistance
1. Policy Development                   42.8      242.3    285.0        85          1
2. Capacity Building                   212.6   1,204.9  1,417.5         85          6
3. Project Implementation              110.1      403.4    513.5        79          2
Subtotal Technical Assistance             365.4   1,850.5  2,216.0         84         9
H. Training
1. External Training                     0.8      789.8    790.5       100          3
2. Local Training                      504.9          -    504.9          -         2
Subtotal Training                        505.6      789.8  1,295.4        61          5
Total Investment Costs                    6,860.5  16,434.1  23,294.5        71        95
II. Recurrent Costs
B. Medical Equipment O&M                 434.1      289.4    723.5        40          3
C. Office Equipment O&M                    50.3      16.8      67.1       25
D. Vehicle O&M                            30.0       10.0      40.0       25
E. Building O&M                          353.2       39.2    392.4         10         2
F. Other                                   19.6       8.4      28.0        30
Total Recurrent Costs                       887.2     363.8  1,251.0         29;        5
7,747.7  16,797.9  24,545.6       68        100
Physical Contingencies                   756.5   1,547.8  2,304.2         67          9
Price Contingencies                      428.6      734.2  1,162.9         63         5
8,932.8  19,079.9  28,012.7       68        114
23.    Bases of Cost Estimates.  Project costs were estimated as follows:
(a)     Base Costs. Base and unit cost estimates are derived from: (a) costs of
consultant services, fellowships and training based on the rates currently charged by
local, European and North American consultants and training programs; (b) recent
quotations obtained from suppliers of computer equipment; (c) applications software
costs from comparisons with ongoing software development activities and estimated
requirements for technical books and journals; (d) building and refurbishment costs
from consultants' surveys of the current costs for these items; (e) funds allocated for
the preparation of studies, estimated on the basis of the aggregated costs of local and
foreign specialized services, unit costs for internal travel and subsistence, and mission
estimates of material and logistic needs; (f) staff-unit costs from current public service



17
salary scales with some adjustments for the remuneration of local technical staff to a
level deemed competitive with the market for specialized services; and (g) non-salary
recurrent costs (materials and supplies) based on current Government rates. All project
costs have been estimated in US dollars on the basis of March 1998 prices at the
official exchange rate of 159 Leke per US dollar.
(b)   Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency for unforeseen
physical variations (US$2.3 million) equivalent to nine percent of the base cost of
technical assistance, training and fellowships and 10 percent for all other project items.
These contingencies are justified because of the uncertainties created by the current
political situation. The following rates were used to cover expected price escalation:
foreign costs at 2.3 percent for CY1998-2003. Since the crisis erupted in March 1997,
the substantial decline of the value of the lek makes it impossible to make meaningful
projections in leke. Therefore, the project costs have been estimated in US dollars.
(c)   Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component (see
breakdown in Table 3) is estimated at about US$19.1 million, including contingencies,
or 68 percent of total project cost. Calculations of the foreign exchange component
were derived from an item-by-item analysis resulting in the following: 95 percent for
office equipment, computer hardware and software, books and journals; 95 percent for
pharmaceuticals, 85 percent for furniture,; 35 percent for civil works; 85 percent for
technical assistance; and 100 percent for external training. The foreign exchange
component in incremental recurrent expenditure was estimated at 40 percent for
medical equipment; 25 percent for the operation and maintenance of office equipment;
25 percent for vehicle maintenance; 10 percent for building maintenance, and 30
percent for supplies and operations.
(d)   Customs, Duties and Taxes. With the exception of technical assistance and
training contracts, works and goods required under the Project will not be exempt from
payment of customs duties and local taxes. The MOH will ensure that local resources
for the payment of import duties and taxes on goods and works to be purchased under
the Project are available when needed. Project costs include an estimated US$0.9
million equivalent in direct and indirect taxes and duties to be financed by the
Government.
24.   Incremental Recurrent Costs. Included in the Project are about US$1.5 million to
cover incremental operating costs directly attributable to the Project during the four-year
period. These consist of incremental operation and maintenance expenditure for equipment,
and supplies and operations. During implementation, MOH will pay extra attention to
monitoring the adequacy of recurrent funds for maintenance and operation of facilities and
newly instituted programs, and take the necessary actions to rectify any deficiencies.
B. Project Financing
25.   The proposed IDA Credit of US$17.0 million will finance about 60 percent of total
project costs, comprising 62 percent of the foreign exchange cost (US$11.9 million) and 64
percent of the local cost, excluding taxes (US$5.2 million). Co-financing is being sought to



18
cover technical assistance, and rehabilitation and equipping of the Tirana Hospital, 3
polyclinics, at least some of the 37 Primary Health Care facilities in Tirana Region, the Tirana
Regional Health Authority, the Ministry of Health and Health Insurance Institute. Possible
donors include the Government of Italy, the Government of Switzerland, United Kingdom
Know-How Fund (KHF), and USAID. The Government will finance the balance of project
costs (US$2.4 million), including duties and taxes. IDA will finance the foreign exchange
component of incremental operating costs (comprising equipment maintenance services and
annual maintenance costs of computers and software). Averaged over the project life, the
Government portion of recurrent expenditures represents less than one percent of the projected
1998 operating budget for the MOH.
26.      Table 3 below  shows the summary of costs by component and financier.  Table 4
shows the summary of costs by expenditure category and financier.
Table 3: SUMMARY OF COSTS BY COMPONENT AND BY FINANCIER
(US$'000)
Italian
Govt.       IDA      USAID  Government   UK          Other       Total
Amount    Amount   Amount   Amount   Amount  Amount    Amount
A. National Capacity Building
Ministry of Health                             0.0        265.2     95.6       870.1        -                . 1,230.8
Health Insurance Institute                    82.8        349.0                    -    448.9          -        880.7
Subtotal National Capacity Building              82.8       614.1     95.6       870.1    448.9          -      2.111.5
B. Governance and Management of Health
System - Tirana
Regional Health Authority                     68.9      1,2G6.8        -           -        -          -      1,335.7
C. Tirana Health Service Delivery
PHC Rural Areas                               133.4     1,009.2              -         -               -      1,142.6
PHC Urban Areas                              267.7      1,862.6                    -        -                 2,130.3
Polyclinics                                  519.3            -        -      4,509.5       -          -      5,028.8
Hospitals                                   1,276.7    11,750.2        -           -        -     1,947.0    14,973.8
Upgrading Professional Skills                  0.0           -        -        730.5                   -        730.5
Subtotal Tirana Health Service Delivery       2,197.1     14,621.9              5,240.0             1,947.0    24006.0
D. Project Management                            23.4       542.6                    -        -          -        566.0
2,372.2    17,045.5    95.6      6,110.1    448.9    1,947.0     28,019.3



19
Table 4: SUMMARY OF COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND FINANCIER
(US$'000)
The                                 Italian
Government    IDA          USAID    Government    UlK            Other       Total
Amount       Amount   Amount    Amount    Amount  Amount   Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Rehabilitation of Physical
Facilities
1. Rural Primary Health Centers                84.5      760.4           -              -          -          -       844.9
2. Urban Primary Health Centers               181.1     1,630.3                                    -          -      1,811.4
3. Specialized Polyclinics                     57.4                      -          573.6          -          -       630.9
4. TIrana Hospital                            671.5    6,043.9                          -          -          -     6,715.4
5. Other Building Rehabilitation               20.2       181.5          -                         -                  201.7
Subtotal Rehabilitation of Physical            1,014.7    8,616.1           -         573.6                           10,204.4
Facilities
B. Architectural/Engineering Services              0.0      514.6           -          37.4          -          -        551.9
C. Medical Equipment/Supplies                     16.2    5,308.7           -       3,898.6          -    1,762.0    10,985.5
E. Office Equipment and Vehicles                  4.7       765.3           -         139.3          -          -        909.3
F. Furniture                                       1.8       76.1          -              -          -          -         77.9
G. Technical Assistance
1. Policy Development                           0.0      258.9                       47.8                     -       306.7
2. Capacity Building                            0.0       443.9       95.6          643.1      197.9      154.8      1,535.3
3. Project Implementation                       0.0       565.0          -              -          -          -       565.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                      0.0     1,267.8      95.6          690.9      197.9      154.8      2,407.0
H. Training
1. External Training                            0.0      331.3           -         275.3      229.3        16.5       852.5
2. Local Training                                          46.1                     495.1       21.7       13.7       576.5
Subtotal Training                                  0.0      377.4           -         770.4      251.0       30.1      1,429.0
Total Investment Costs                           1,037.4   16,926.0        95.6        6,110.1      448.9    1,947.0    26,565.0
II. Recurrent Costs
B. Medical Equipment O&M                        756.3        88.9           -             -          -          -        845.1
C. Office Equipment O&M                          67.5         3.9                                                         7 -  -  -  71.4
D. Vehicle O&M                                   40.2         5.9          -              -          -          -         46.1
E. Building O&M                                 440.5        18.9          -              -          -          -        459.5
F. Other                                         30.4         1.9                                    -          -         32.2
Total Recurrent Costs                            1,334.8       119.5          -              -          -          -      1,454.3
2,372.2    17,045.5      95.6        6,110.1      448.9    1,947.0    28,019.3
C. Administration of Project Funds
27.   The IDA Credit of US$17.0 million will be made to the Government of Albania. The
Ministry of Health will be responsible for the implementation of the Project.
D. Project Procurement Arrangements
28.   Project procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5 below. It is envisaged
that the Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents conforming to the latest issue of the
Procurement Guidelines will be used for the procurement of Bank-financed works, goods and
related services. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the Project will be issued by end
April 1998. A project launch workshop is planned by end September 1998. Incremental
recurrent expenditures, which are financed almost entirely with Government counterpart
funds, as well as technical assistance and training financed by other donors, are shown under
the N.B.F. (Non-Bank Financed) column.



20
Table 5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Categorv of Expenditure                     ICB    NCB   Other   N.B.F.b   Total
Civil Works                                  8.5     0.8      0.2         0.7      10.2
(7.7)   (0.8)c   (0.2)      (0.0)     (8.7)
Technical Assistance
a) Policy Development                                          0.2        0.1       0.3
(0.2) d    (0.0)     (0.2)
b) Capacity Building                                           0.4        1.1       1.5
(0.4)d     (0.0      (0.4)
c) Project Implementation                                      1.1                  1.1
(1.1)d               (1.1)
Fellowships and Training                                       0.4        1.0       1.4
(0.4)     (0.0)      (0.4)
Medical Equipment and supplies               5.1              0.2e        5.7      11.0
(5.1)            (0.2)      (0.0)     (5.3)
Office Equipment                             0.6              0.4e        0.0       1.0
(including vehicles, furniture)              (0.6)            (0.2)      (0.0)     (0.8)
Recurrent Expenditures                                        0.1        1.4       1.5
(0.1)     (0.0)      (0.1)
TOTAL                                        14.2    0.8       3.0       10.0      28.0
(13.4)  (0.8)    (2.8)      (0.0)     (17.0)
Note: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
a/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit
b/ Non-Bank Financed
c/ National Competitive Bidding procedures, using Bank Guidelines
d/ Procurement according to Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants
e/ Prudent National ShoppinIg/off-the-shelf purchases (aggregate US$50,000) of less than US$50,000 per contract; international
shopping (aggregate US$450,000) of less than US$250,0 per contract, direct contracting (aggregate US$46,000) for
books, intellectual property, spare parts.
29.   Procurement through ICB. Computer, medical equipment and hospital furniture
contracts which are estimated to cost more than US$250,000 equivalent per contract will be
procured following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995
amended in September 1997). Computers and medical equipment (for tenders) procured
through ICB will account for about 50 percent (US$5.7 million) of the total goods value. In
the comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB, local manufacturers, if any,
competing under ICB will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price
or the prevailing custom duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided
they can establish to the satisfaction of the purchaser and the World Bank that: (i) labor, raw
material and components from within Albania will account for more than 30 percent of the
EXW price of the product offered, and (ii) the production facility in which those goods will be
manufactured or assembled has been engaged in the manufacturing/assembling of such goods



21
at least since the time of bid submission. A detailed list of equipment to be procured is found
in Appendix 3. The Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents, Standard Form of Consulting
Contracts and Requests for Proposals, and Standard Bid Evaluation Report Forms will be used
for procurement of IDA financed works, goods and services.
30.   Other Forms of Procurement. The remaining 50 percent of the equipment
requirements will be in packages (listed below) suitable for procurement other than ICB (see
Tables 6-8 for listing of all equipment packages).
(a)   International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for contracts for
equipment estimated to cost less than US$250,000 (i.e., first batch of computer
equipment, laptops, audio visual and office equipment) where the cost of ICB will
clearly outweigh possible price advantages. The aggregate value of IS is estimated at
US$450,000 equivalent. International shopping procedures will based on comparing
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two different countries in
accordance with Bank Guidelines.
(b)   National Shopping (NS). Minor sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 per
contract may be purchased on the basis of prudent national shopping by comparing
price quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. Aggregate amount of national shopping is estimated at US$50,000
equivalent.
(c)   Direct Contracting (DC). DC (aggregate US$46,000) will be used for
proprietary items for reasons of compatibility and standardization, and in any other
justified case such as textbooks and spare parts. Any direct contracting during project
implementation will need prior Bank approval.
(d)   Civil Works. Civil works contracts include the rehabilitation and upgrading of
health care facilities at the primary, out-patient specialist and in-patient hospital levels
in Tirana Region, and rehabilitatiaon of the selected building for TRHA, as well as
minor upgrading of the MOH and HII offices in Tirana to accommodate the computer
equipment coming in under the Project. Works contracts estimated at US$250,000 and
above will be awarded through ICB. This includes the contract for rehabilitation of the
hospital, and the construction and rehabilitation of 10 urban primary health centers.
Works c(,ntracts below US$250,000 (rehabilitation of 27 geographically dispersed rural
primary health centers) will be awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
(aggregate US$800,000). The Borrower will use the latest version of ECA's Sample
NCB Documents. Contracts below US$50,000 (MOH and HII offices, estimated at
US$200,000 in the aggregate) will be procured on the basis of the lowest of at least
three written quotations from domestic contractors with proven qualitative and financial
resources, and using the Bank's sample contract documentation for minor works.
These minor works are geographically dispersed, and of small value (estimated to
range between US$10,000 and US$20,000). To the extent feasible, these minor works
will be combined into packages suitable for NCB. The rehabilitation of three
polyclinics (US$600,000 aggregate) which are financed by the Italian Government will



22
be procured in accordance with procedures (Non-Banked Financed Procurement --
NBF) agreed between the Government and Italy.
Table 6: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR CIVIL WORKS
(US$ Million)
Packages                         Estimated   Procure-  Prepare   Invitation  Award    Contract
Cost (US$   ment     Tendering  to Bid      Contract Completion
million)    Method
Rehab. of IPH, HII, TRHA         0.2        Minor    9/98         10/98      11/98     6/99
Works
Rural PHCs (27 Centers)          0.84       NCB        9/98       1/99       4/99      9/00
Urban PHCs (10 Centers)          1.81       ICB        9/98       1/99       6/99      9/00
Tirana Hospital                  6.7        ICB        2/99       5/99       9/99      6/01
Polyclinics (3 Clinics)          0.63       NBF        9198       1/99       6199      9/00
TOTAL         10.18
Table 7: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR EQUIPMENT
(US$ Million)
Packages                  Estimat  Procure-  Prepare         Invita-  Award      Contract
ed Cost  ment        Tendering   tion to  Contract  Completion
(US$      Method                   Bid
million)
1. HII Computers          0.32      ICB        9/1/98        11/1/98  1/5/99     4/1/99
2. RHA Computers          0.15      ICB        9/1/98        11/1/98  1/5/99     4/1/99
3. AV Equipment           0.04      IS         10/1/98       12/1/98  2/1/99     4/4/99
4. Vehicles               0.11      IS         6/1/98        8/1/98    10/1/98   12/1/98
5. Hospital Furniture     0.23      IS         6/1/00        8/1/00    11/1/00   1/15101
6. RHA Office Furn.       0.05      NS         10/1/98       12/1/98  2/1/99     4/1/99
7. Training Materials    0.05       DC         7/1/98       --        9/1/98     --
8. PCU Office Equip.      0.07      IS         6/1/98        8/1/98   9/1/98     11/1/98
9. Medical Equipment    5.1         ICB        9/1/98        12/1/98  2/1/99     6/1/00
10. Pharmaceuticals       1.1       NBF        N/A           N/A      N/A        N/A
11. Hospital Computers  0.13        ICB        9/1/98        11/1/98  1/1/5/99    4/1/99
12. Other Medical         4.6       NBF        N/A           N/A      N/A        N/A
Equip.
TOTAL                     11.95



23
Table 8: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
(US$ Million)
Packages                         Estimated   Procure-  Prepare    Invitation  Award    Contract
Cost       ment       Tendering  to Bid     Contract  Completion
Method
MOH TA/Training (ITA)            0.8         NBF       7/1/98      8/15/98    9/1/98
MOH TA/Training (IDA)            0.3         QCBS      7/1/98      8/15/98    9/1/98
MOH TA (USAID)                   0.1         NBF       7/1/98      8/15/98    9/1/98
Project Audit (IDA)              0.1         LCS2/     5/1/99      6/1/99     7/1/99    9/1/99
HII TA/Training (UK)             0.4         NBF       7/1/98      8/15/98    9/1/98
TRHA TA/Training (IDA)           0.7         QCBS      10/1/98     12/15/98    1/1/98
Hospital Mgt./Trng. (IDA)        0.1        IC         10/1/98     12/15/98    1/1/98
Hospital Mgt./Training (other)   0.2         NBF       7/1/98      8/15/98    9/1/98
Professional Skills/TR (ITA)     0.6         NBF       7/1/98      8/15/98    9/1/98
Architectural & Engineering Servs.  0.6      QCBS      9/1/98      11/15/98    3/1/99
Project Mgt. TA/Training (IDA)   0.3         QCBS      7/1/98      8/15/98    9/1/98
TOTAL                            4.3
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
1/ Short-term individual specialists.
2/ Least Cost Selection
31.   Technical Assistance. There are nine technical assistance packages to be procured
under the project at a total cost estimated at US$4.3 million. Of this amount, US$2.1 million
(five packages) will be financed by IDA and will be procured in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" (Revised September 1997). The rest (four packages, aggregate
approximately US$2.1 million) are financed by other sources and will be procured in
accordance with procedures agreed between the cofinanciers and the Government. To keep the
evaluation process manageable, proposals for comprehensive packages of consultant services
and management of fellowships and training, will be sought from no more than six, but at least
three firms, following a short listing acceptable to the Bank. These packages will include
management of related training as well. It is anticipated that about US$100,000 of the
aggregate for technical assistance will be for highly specialized individual consultants (except
for management services). Table 8 shows procurement packages for technical assistance and
training.
32.   Recurrent expenditures will be carried out in accordance with annual budgets to be
agreed with IDA and will include such expenditures as utilities, supplies, and vehicle
maintenance.
33.   Prior Review. In compliance with IDA procedures, standard model bidding
documents will be used for all procurement financed by IDA. IDA's prior review of
procurement will cover all contracts of US$250,000 and above, and in particular, the
following: a) master lists of equipment, packaging of bids and updated cost estimates; b) all
ICB contracts for goods; c) ICB contracts for works; d) the first two contracts for NCB for
works; e) the first two contracts for minor works; f) terms of reference for all consulting
assignments; g) all direct contracting; and h) consulting contracts above US$100,000 with
firms and above US$50,000 with individual consultants. With respect to prior review, the



24
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply. It is
estimated that this prior review will cover about 80 percent of the value of all contracts
combined for works, equipment and technical assistance financed by the IDA. The remaining
20 percent of contracts will be subject to selective post award reviews. Progress of
procurement activities will be monitored by the PCU, and periodic reports on procurement
progress, including variations in schedule, will be reported to IDA on a regular basis.
34.   Although existing PCU staff already have some experience with procurement
procedures, funding for additional training for both current and new PCU staff at the ILO
Training Center in Turin, Italy, is included in the Project. To provide overall support for
project management, including management of processing tasks, the Project will support the
financing of an external project consultant on a declining basis through project
implementation. In addition, project-specific procurement training will be provided at the
Project Launch Workshop planned for September 1998.
E. Disbursements
35.   The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four and a half
years. The disbursement profile of the Project has been based on experience gained during
current IDA operations in the sector. The Project has been designed within the capacity of the
MOH to execute over a four and a half year period, and loan funds are expected to be fully
disbursed by the end of that period. The Project Closing Date will be January 31, 2003. A
summary of the disbursement plan is shown in Table 9.
Table 9: DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
(US$ Million)
Estimated Disbursements:
FY99        FY00        FY01        FY02        FY03
Annual                         1.0         4.0         6.3         4.6         1.1
Cumulative                     1.0         5.0        11.3        15.9        17.0
Cumulative as % of Total       6%         29%         66%         94%        100%
36.   Disbursement categories and projected disbursements under the Credit are shown in
Table 9 below. The Project is expected to be fully disbursed over a period of four and a half
years from Date of Effectiveness, scheduled for August 1, 1998.



25
Table 10: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
CATEGORY                   AMOUNT OF CREDIT             % OF EXPENDITURE TO BE
(Expressed in Dollar Equivalent  FINANCED
(US$ Million)
1. Civil works                         7.8             90% (net of taxes)
2. Goods                               5.5              100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory costs); and 85% of local
costs for other items procured
locally.
3. Consultant services and             1.9              100%
training
4. Recurrent expenditures              0.1              8%
5. Unallocated                         1.7
TOTAL                                  17.0
37.   All disbursements against contracts for goods and works exceeding US$300,000
equivalent, and services and training exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms
and US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants will be fully documented. For
expenditures below those levels, disbursements will be made on the basis of certified
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). This documentation will be made available for the
required audit as well as for Bank supervision missions, and will be retained by the Project
Director for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which
the last disbursement was made.
38.   Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special
Account denominated in US dollars. The authorized allocation will be US$900,000.
However, during the initial stage of the Project, an amount limited to US$300,000 will be
deposited. When the aggregate amount of disbursement reaches SDR 1.8 million, the amount
deposited in the Special Account will be increased to the full authorized allocation of
US$900,000.
39.   Project Account and Audits. Separate project accounts will be maintained by the
PCU. The project accounts, including the PCU accounts and the Special Account, will be
audited in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of
Projects Financed by the World Bank" (March 1982). The Borrower will provide the Bank
(within six months of the end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as
the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an independent auditor
acceptable to the IDA, on disbursements against certified statements of expenses (SOEs). The
separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawal applications.



26
F. Role of the World Bank in Supervision
40.   The Project will, on average, require about 20 staff-weeks of Bank supervision per year on
average during implementation, as reflected in the proposed supervision plan below:
Table 11: STAFF WEEKS BY SPECIALIZATION
Timing       Staff Weeks                          Staffing
CY1998       22 weeks          IDA resources (22 weeks) of which:
- Project Team Leader (7 weeks)
- Health Specialist (6 weeks)
- Health Economist/Information Systems (3 weeks)
- Operations Officer (6 weeks)
CY1998       21 weeks          IDA resources (21 weeks) of which:
- Project Team Leader (7 weeks)
- Health Specialist (6 weeks)
- Health Economist/Information Systems (2 weeks)
- Operations Officer (6 weeks)
CY1999       19 weeks          IDA resources (19 weeks) of which:
- Project Team Leader (7 weeks)
- Health Specialist (5 weeks)
- Health Economist/Information Systems(1 week)
- Operations Officer (6 weeks)
CY2000       15 weeks          IDA resources (15 weeks) of which:
- Project Team Leader (7 weeks)
- Operations Officer (7 weeks)
- Health Economist/Information Systems (1 week)
G. Administrative Arrangements
41.   The Project Coordinator will be responsible for carrying out all necessary
administrative arrangements recommended and approved by the Project Advisory Group.
Full-time attention of the relevant senior officers will be required in development and
implementation of the new administrative systems.
H. Implementation Schedule
42.   The Project is expected to be completed within a four year implementation period
beginning August 1, 1998. The Project Completion Date is July 31, 2002. Negotiations took
place in March 1998. Prior to Effectiveness, it is expected that TORs for major technical
equipment lists for project institutions will be drawn up, and bidding documents for major
procurement packages put together. Appendix 1 includes the detailed schedule of
implementation by activity for each sub-component. The schedule takes into account the work
to be carried out during project preparation and reflects the detailed implementation activities.



27
Based on the quality of the work already completed, it is planned that the implementation of
project activities will start prior to Project Effectiveness.
43.   Project Progress Reports, Mid-Term Review and Evaluation. During Negotiations,
the Government provided assurances that: (i) MOH will prepare semi-annual descriptive
and financial reports on each project component, objective and activity (beginning from
the date of Credit Effectiveness). No later than August 30, 2000 (or about two years after
Credit Effectiveness), the PCU will undertake jointly with IDA a mid-term review of progress
in project implementation to determine whether: (a) the Project's intended objectives remain
valid; (b) implementation is advancing satisfactorily to justify its continued implementation;
and (c) any adjustments to, or significant restructuring of the Project are necessary to improve
its effectiveness. The Project Operational Manual will be updated following the mid-term
review and the annual work program for the following year will reflect the recommendations
made. During negotiations, the Govermment will be asked to provide assurances that a
mid-term project review will be conducted no later than August 30, 2000, according to
terms of reference agreed with IDA.



28
IV. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
44.   The indicators were selected, in consultation with the MOH, on the basis of sensitivity
to project inputs, conceptual relevance to project objectives, ease of calculation and
parsimony. Three sets of indicators will be used to monitor project progress and
achievements: (a) input indicators will be used to keep tack of the extent to which
implementation meets stated expectations and schedule; (b) output indicators will be used to
track immediate results of implementation are in accordance with project plans; and (c)
outcome indicators will be used to evaluate the extent to which attributable health system
improvements were achieved by the Project. In this regard, it should be stressed that while
the Project will help to fulfill crucial preconditions for sustained improvements in health
system performance and health status, it will not, by itself, result in immediate, measurable
and attributable changes in health status. Stated differently, achievement of the Project
objectives is necessary but not sufficient for measurable (and attributable) impacts on health
status, given the multiple determinants of health status.
Quantitative targets will be specified during the Project Launch Workshop. to be held
in Tirana no later than September 30. 1998.
B. Indicator Tables
45.   Tables 9, 10 and 11 below provide basic formats for tracking input, output and
outcome indicators.



29
Table 12: INPUT INDICATORS
(US$000's equivalent)
Component/Expenditure             Dec. 981'              Jun. 99         Dec. 99                     Jun. 00               Dec. 00         Jun 01                       Dec 01          Jun 02                  Total
Category                                                                                                                                                                                               Expected
Expecte    Actual    Expecte    Actual    Expecte    Actual    Expecte    Actual    Expecte    Actu al    Expecte    Actual         Expecte    Actual      Expect    Actual
d                    d                     d           d         d                     d                     d                      d                         d
1. National Capacity Building
A. Ministry of Health
B. Health Insurance Institute
Subtotal
II. Governance & Management
(Tirana Region)
Subtotal
III. Tirana Region
(Selvice Dehvery)
A. PHC Rural
B. PHC Urban
C. Polyclinics
D. Urbani
E. Professional Development
Sub-total
Recurrent Costs
Project Managenient
rtOTAL
1' Dates of semi-annual Progr-ese Reports ivll be adjustedi booed on date of effectiveness of the IDA Cr-edit.



30
Table 13: OUTPUT INDICATORS/'
(US$000's equivalent)
Component/Expenditure              Dec 98                Jun 99          Dec 99                     Jun 00                Dec 00          Jun 01                       Dec 01          Jun 02                   Total
Category                                                                                                                                                                                               Expected
Expecte    Actual    Expecte    Actual    Expecte    Actual    Expecte    Actual    Expecte    Actual    Expecte    Actual          Expecte    Actual    Expecte      Actual
d                    d                     d           d         d                     d                     d                      d                     d  d
I. National Capacity Building
# Fellowships.
# People trained - local.
# People trained - foreign.
Seminars.
II. Governance & Management
(Tirana Region)
# Fellowships.
# People trained - local.
# People trained - foreign.
Seminars.
III. Tirana Region
Service Delivery)
# equipped as planned:
A. PHC Rural
B. PHC Urban
C. Polclvinics
D. Urban
E. Hospital (Departments.)
# using standard clinical
protocols:
A. PHC Rural
B. PHC Urban
C. Polycinics
D. Urban
E. Hospital (Departments)
Project ManaFement
tinued)
Dates of semi-annual Progress Repor ts will be adjusted based on date of Effectiveniess of the Bank loon.



31
Table 14: OUTCOME INDICATORS
Project Objective                             Outcome Indicator                  Yr. 1    Yr. 2     Yr. 3    Yr. 4
1.   Develop national capacity for an effective   la. MOH produces three-year rolling plans
and financially sustainable health system.  consistent with Health Policy objectives by the end
of Project Yr 2.
lb. HII is financially solvent and autonomous by
the end of the Project.
lc. HII covers primary health care by the end of
the Project.
ld. Public Health Institute develops a National
Public Health Policy against Non-Communicable
Diseases and Injuries by the end of Year 2 of the
Project.
2.  Establish an effective system for       2a. Tirana Regional Health Authority functioning
governing and managing the health system in   according to its Terms of Reference (See Annex 2)
Tirana Region.                              by the end of the Project.
3.  Improve the quality and effectiveness of    3a. % increase in population with access to
essential health services in Tirana Region.  primary health services in rehabilitated health
centers in Tirana Region.
3b.  % increase in service utilization per health
center.
3c.   % patients in eligible health facilites treated
according to new clinical protocols.
3d   Non-communicable disease program launched
by end of year 3 of the Project.
3e  Injury control program launched by end of the
Project.



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: APPENDIX 1
Detailed Implementation Schedule



ALBANIA                                                                                Appendix 1
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Detailed Implementation Schedule
1998            1          1999                        2000                        2001                         2
ID    Task Name                       Start    Finish   Otr 4          Qtr I T  tr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr IQtr 2  Qtr        3 Qtr4     QQtr 2  Qtr 3 |tr 4  Qtr I  Qtr 2
I    Plu Strengthening                 813198    5131102                                    _
2         TA SelecdionlAward Contract    8/3/98    9t11/98
3         Office Equipment Procureme    8/3/98    9/11/98
4         Vehicle Pocurement           83198    9111i98
5         Staff Fellowships            8(3198    7/30/99
6         Study Tours                  V3V98    5131102                               I1I__
7         Workshops                    8/3/98    5/31/02
8         Audit                       12/1198     1/8/99
9    MOH Capacity Building            7/1/98    111598_
10        TA - Pharmaceutlceas          f       1112398                    _
11             TA SeecioniAward Co    771/98     8/1198 
12             TA Implementatlon       9/1198    11/23(98
13        TA . Hospital Policy Develo   10/1198    11/25198                       _
14             TA Seleton/Award       10/1/98    11/11/98
15             TA implementation      10/1/98    11/25/98
17    NIPH Capacity Building          7/15/98    19/1V200
18        CivIl Works RehabIlitatIon  7/15/98     2/9M99                      _
19        Health Policy and Mgt Dep  11/7/98    12/28/981
20             Office Equipment Proc   11/17/98    12/28/98
1         SStaff Training              1/l199    S1181W0 
Task                                        Summary                      _             Rolled Up Progress
Projed: Health Services Developmen       Progress                                    Rolled Up Task
Date: 1/16198 P
Milestone                                  Rolled Up Milestone e '



ALBANIA                                                                                  Appendix 1
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Detailed Implementation Schedule
_            _                                i~~~     ~     ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~998  |1999       2000                        2001                         2
ID    Task Name                       Start    Finish   Qtr 4   1               Q Qtr2 Qtr3   4   Qtr    Qtr 2| Qtr 3 |_Qtr 4  Qtr'I Qtr 2 | Qtr 3 | Qtr 4  Qtr    Qtr2   Qtr3      Qt 1  Qtr 2
22             Staff Fellowships        1/1/99    s518oO
23         Library Establishment       4/1U99      71/799
24             Books/Equipment Proc    4/15/99     77199 
25         Health EducaUon DepL         1/1/1199    10U12V00
26             Staff Fellowships        i/1/99     9/1/99
27             TA - Health Promroion   10/1/99    10/12/0                                                            - |
28
29    HIl Capacity Building             611198    2V11/00                                                                   Y
30         Civil Works Rehabiltaton    6/15/98     1/8/99
31         Staff training               8/1198    7/10/98
32         MIS Equipment Procureme      6/1/98    2V11/00
33             Bid Package Prepara0     8/1/98     9/4/98
34             invitatOn to Bid         9/7/98    1/30n/98
35             Contact Award           11/2198    1112/98i
36             Lot 1 Equlpnment Delive    11/3/98    12/14/98
37             Lot 2 Equiprment Delive  1/1/99    2/11/99
38             Lot 3 Equipment Delive   1/3/00    2/11/00
39             Staff Fellowships        7/7/98    7119199                                                 _
40 
41    Tlrana Regional Health Authorlt    7/1/98    9121100
42         CMI Works Rehabilitaton     8/17198    3/1V_99 
Task                                        Summary                    _                 Rolled Up Progress
Project: Health Services Developrnen      Progress                                     Rolled Up Task
Date: 1M16198                         I
____________________________ J Milestone                                    Rolled Up Milestone



ALBANIA                                                                                  Appendix I
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Detailed Implementation Schedule
1998                        1999                        2000                         2001                         2
ID    Task Name                       Start    Finish    Qtr 4  Qtr1   Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtrt4 Otr   Qtr2   tr 3  Qtr4Qtr   Qtr 2  0  3 3 tr4  Qtr i  Qtr 2  Qtr3  Qtr 4 Otr I  Qtr 2
43         Staff Fellowships            8/3198    8/13/99
44        TA                            711198    6129199
45             Health PlannbglFlnanc    7/1/98    8/29/99
46             HR Planning and Devel    7/1198    3/23/99
47             Health Info ColbctonlA    711198   12129198
48             HospltalslSpec.Servlce   7/1/98    3123199
49         Office Equlpment Prouremn    4/5/99    5/28/99
50        Fumriture Procurement         4/5/99    5128199
51         Staff TraIning-Health Plan/Fi  211199    4123199
52        Sbdy Tours                    91)99    9120/99
53         Study Tours                  914/00    9121/00
55    Civil Wors RehabilItation        1011198    10/119                               _
U0        Rural PHCs                   1011198    1011/99
57        Urban PHCs                   10/1/98    1011199
58        Tirana Hospital              1011198    1011/99
59        Polydlnics                   10/1/98    10/1/99
60 
61    Cllnical Skills Mgt and Training  913198    11/U101                                                                                               I       
62         TA Management Contract       913198    1118/01
63             TA Selection Award       9/3/98    1/111/98                                                               1
Task                                        Summary                                      Rolled Up Progress
Project: Health Services Developmen                                                    Roiled Up Task
Date: 1/16/98                             Progrol
Milestone                                   Rolled Up Milestone   )



ALBANIA                                                                          Appendix I
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Detailed Implementation Schedule
1998                     1999                      2000           |          2001                      2
ID    Task Name                    Start    Ftnish   Qtr 4 Qtr 1I Qtr 2 | Qtr 31Qtr4 4Qtr      2 Qtr2Qtr3  Qtr4  Qtr    Qtr 2   Qtr 3Qtr 4 Qtr I Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr I Qtr 2
64            TA Implementation   1112199    1118i01       r
Task                                    Summary                  _Rolled Up Progress
Project: HeaRth Servlces Developrnen  PrgesRldUpTk
Date: 1161698PrgesRldUpTk
Milestone          *Rolled UpMilestone 



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: APPENDIX 2
Cost Tables



ALBANIA
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Table 1. Capacity Building - MOM
Detailed Costs
Unit    Totals Including Contingenci.e  (US$         Summarv Divisions                                                 E
quantities       ~Cost             .- 000)                                      Sa Ependiture        The Gonvero"ct           _____
UJnit   98/99                           Cost T U99/              00/01   01/02   Total   CmonSnt   -          kA&ou    98/99 99/00Q 00/01 02otal 98/99 99L/O
I. Investment Costs
A. Pharaceuticals Policy Dev-lopment
1. Office equipment
Computers                                            unit        3      -                  3  2,500      8.3        -        -       -      8.3    CBMOH        OEQBA
Office materials                                    lumpsum                                              2.f2     2.3      2.3 ,j,j 2.4     9.2    CBMOH        OBQEA
Subtotal Office equipment                                                                                  10.6      2.3      2.3     2.4    17.6
2. Technical Assistance
Initial Assessment /a                                 on         3      -      _           3 15,000    47.8         -        -       -    47.8    CBMOH         PDEA
PoliCy Development c b                                ee         9      3     -           12 15,000   143,4    4859          -       _   1923    CBMOH          CBEA
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                             101.2    48.9         -       - 240.1                                         -      -      -     -
3. Staff training abroad /c                            lumpsum                                             17.0        -        -       _    17.0    CBMOH        EXTREA          -     _      _                   _     _
4. Pharmaceutical Inspactorate
Computers /d                                         unit        a      -            -     8  2,500    22.3         -                _    22.3    CBMOH         OBQEA          -     _                   _ -          _
Printers /e                                          unit        8      -     -            8  1,500         13.4    -        _       -.13.4    CBMOH            OEQBA                   _  _
Subtotal Pharmaceutical InSpectorate                                                                       35,J        --                     .-
Subtotal Pharmaceuticals Policy Development                                                                  254.3    51.2       2.3     2.4   310.2                                        _ -                       _     _
S. Hospital Sector Policy Development
1. Technical Assistance /f                               ms         2      2      -     -     4 15,000    31.9    32.6          -        -    64.5    CBMOH         PDEA                _      _            -  31.9  32.6
2. Materials and Supplies /g                           lumpsum                                              6.2        -        _              6.2    CBMOH         OEQEA         -            - _   _      -   6.2
Subtotal Hospital Sector Policy Development                                                                    38.1    32.6        -        -    70.7                                -      -     -      -     -  38.1  32.6
C. Primary Health Care/Public Health Dept.
1. Technical Assistance /h                                mm        6      3                  9 15,000    95.6    48.9                   _   144.5    CBMOH         CBEA          -                     
2. Workshops                                              Is                                            .....2.22.2               2.3   4      9.2    CBMOH        LOTREA         -      - _          -     -      -     -
Subtotal Primary Health Care/Public Health Dept.                                                               97.8    51.2      2.3     2.4   153.7                                        _ -                _ -
D. Directorate of Health Education
1. Technical Assistance /i                                me        3      9      -     -    12 15,000    47.8   146.7          -        -   194.5    CBMOH         PDEA          -     -      -     -      -  47.8 146.7
E. Economic Finance Dept.
1. Investment Unit
FellowshipS /i                                        my         1      1     -            2 50,000    53.1    54.3          _       _   107.4    CBMOH        EXTREA                                           -     -
Technical Assistance for Investment Planning /k    mm            6      6     -      -    12 15,000 ...5...6    97..8.._L                 19 - 4    CBMOH        COSA
.Suhtotal Investment unit                                                                                 148.7   152.1         -        - 300.8-                                        -     -      -     -      -     -
2. PiDnece Unit
T.A. Info System Development & Accountability /1   me            6      -     -            6 15,000    95.6         -                      9 - 5.6    CBMOH      CBEA          -     -      -     -      -      -     -
Budgeting Procedures                                  me         3      -     -      -     3 15,000    47.8         -                _    47.8    CBMOH          CBEA                       _
Long Term Training /m                                  ls                                               53.1        -        -        -    53.1    CBMOH       EXTREA          _            _     _      _            _
Personal Computer                                    Unit        1      - I          -     1  2,900      2.8        -        -       -      2.8    CBMOH         OEQEA
Printer                                              unit        1      _     _            1  1,500  ...            -        -              1.7    CBMOH        OEQEA          -     -         -     -      -
Subtotal Finance Unit                                                                                     200.9        -        -        -   200.9                                -  -                -     -      -     -
Subtotal Economic Finance Dept.                                                                              349.6  152i1          -        -   50.7
Total                                                                                                              787.7   433.7      4.7      4.8 1,230.8                                                              85.9 179.3
\a Asseas needs for policy formulation. Define next required in development of policy (draft TORs for further T.A.).
\b 2 people for 6 months each for policy formulation.
\c 2 MOH staff for 3 months each abroad.
\d Computers for 7 branch offices plus 1 for Tirana
\e 7 printers for district offices, 1 for Tirana
\f Support development of minimum standards of health care.
\g For coomittee work.
\h Change strategy to guidelines for implementation.
\i 3 months on initial assessment of non-communicable diseases and injuries.  9 months on policy definition of NCD injuries prevention.
\j 2 persons for 1 year study
\k Tue persons for six months each.
\1 USAID will finance.
\m Focus on health finance planning and budgeting
Mon Apr 20 12:27:28 1998
1-1 "ap-oity Building - MOH



ALBANIA
Health System  Recovery and Development Project
Table 1. Capacity Building  - MOR
D.tt.il.d CostB
IJOARD                       Orp-ai   Go venm-nt
00/01 p01/0   Tota  9S/99  99/00 00/01  01/02 Total 98/99                 l g -O.l/01/02  Total
-      -    8.3        -      -       -   8.3
_   -           2,2  2_3  2.3  2.4  9.2
-  -  - -  -  10.6    2.3    2.3    2.4   17.6
-  - -- -  -  47.8     -      -       -  47-8
_     1434   48.,9         -       -192.3
-      --191.12  46,9         -       - 240.1
-      -…17.0          -      -       -  17.0
--     -  22.3                -           22.3
-   -   -   -   ~13.4  _                 -  13.4
_  -35.6    _             - _         35.6
--- 254.3   51.2    2.3    2.4  310.2
-      .  64.                 _-
-      -  730 0.7-_
-                                                95.6  48.9          -      - 144,5
_   _                 -   _          -   ~~~~~~~2 .2  2 .:    2.3    2 .4    9,.2
-->            -      -       -       -      -       -97.8   51.2    2.3    2.4  153.7
- 194.5                           -       -       -      -       -
-  ,  -  -  -  --  - 53.1 54.3   -  -107.4
-                                     - ~95.6 -    -  193.4
e-- _                 _       r       _      _ 148.7 152.1           -      - 300.8
-      -       -  95.6                        -95.6          -       -      -       -       -
---            -      -       -         -     -  47.8                           47.8
--~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~53.1                                  -                 53.1
-      -       -      -       -       .       -      -  53 2.8       -      -       -    2.8
-      -       -      -       -       -       -      -     17.       -      -       -    2. 
-  -  - ....2.3._.9  -      -9.6  g          , 6.                    105.3
-95.6     9- .             -  95.6 254,0 152.            -       -406.1
-      - 265.2   95.6         -       -      -  95.6 606.2 254.4    4.7    4.8 870.1
1-2 Capacity BOil1di,sg   MOH



ALBANIA
Health System  Recovery and Development Project
Table 2. Capacity  uiliding   Health Insurance Onctitote
Detailed Costs
UDlt         Totals Including               Summary Divisions                                     Expenditures by Financiers  (USS  0001
... ouantir6es           Coot    Contiosencoe-  (USS  0007                      Expenditure           The Government                            IDA                 __
Unit      98/9-3 99/00 00/01 01/02 Total (US5)  98/299 99100 00/01 01/02 Total  Component    Account   98/99 99/00 00/01 01/02  D2al 98/99 99100 00/03I. 0LP02 Total 98/99
I. Inveestent Costs
A. Technical Astistance                  mm                3      3      3      3    12 15,000  47.8  48.9  50.0  51.2 197.9    CBHII                CBEA           -      -      -      -      -      -      -                       47.8
B. Equipment
1. Office Equip.eot
Server                               unit           1      -      -      1      2  4,000    4.5       -      -   4.8   9.2    CBHII           OEQEA        0.0      -      -   0.0   0.1   4.4         -          4.7   9.1
Personal Computer /a                 unit          32    18              _    50  2,485  88.5  50.9          -        139.4    CBHII          OEQEA       0.7   04         -      -   2.0  87.8  00.5               - _   138.3
Printero                             unit          23    20       -      -     43  2,000  51.2  45.5                   96.7    CBHII          DEQEA        0.4   0.3       -      - 0.7  50.8  45.2           -      -98.0        -
Software                            lumpsum                                                 5.6   3.4   5.8            14.8    CBHII          OEQEA        0.0    0.0   0.0           0.1   5.5   3.4   5.8         -  14.7
Computer N.etwork                    unit           2      5                    7  6,000  13.4  34.1         -     -  47.5    CBHII           OEQEA        0.1   0.3       -          0.4  13.3  33.9         -         47.1
Computer Supplies /b                lumpsum                                                 3.3   3-4   4.7 _4.8  16.2          CBHII         OEQEA       .0   0.0 _0.0    0.0   0.1  ....3   3.4   4.6   4.7  -16.. I
S.btot.l Office Equsipmsent                                                                   166.4 137.4  10.0   9.5 323.8                                   1.2   1.0   0.1   0.1   2.4 188.1 136.4  10.4   9.S 321.4               -
C. Vehicle                               unit           I                          1 25,000  27.8               -         27.8    CBHII          COEQA        0.2   1         -           0.2  27.6                     -  27.6       -
D. Staff Training
1. Workshops                             unit           I                          1  2,000   2.2        -      -      -   2.2    CBEII         LOTREA          -      -      -      -                                             2.2
2, Seminar- soit                                        1      3     2      3      9  1,208   1.3   4.1   2.8   4.3  12.6    CBRII              LOTREA              -         -      -      -      -      -      -          -       1.3
3. Long Tern Fellowships
Health Planning Fellowship /0    unit               1      -      -      -      1 50,000  53.1               -      -  53.1    CBHII         EXTREA                                                                            53.1
Health Finance Pellowship /d         unit           1      -      -      -      1 50,000  53.1        -                53,1    CBHII         EXTREA                                                                           5 -  __- __ 
Subtotal Long Tern Fellowships                                                                106.2      -      -      - 106.2                                  -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -106.2
4. Training Materials                     mm                                                    2.2   1.1   2.3   1.2   6.9    CBHII            LOTREA           -      -     -      -             -                                2.2
5. Short Term Fellowships /e             unit           2      2     2      2      8 10,000  21.2  21.7  22.2  22.7  87.9    CBHII              EXTREA              -         -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -  21.2
6. Study Tourt  /n                       unit           2      2      2     2      8  4,000   8.5 .87 3.3_   3i 9          .251  CBHII          EXTREA                 -                    = -                  -             -141.7
S.btot.l Staff Training                                                                          141.7 35.7  36.3  37.3 201.0                                       -                                                                141___   ________7 __
Total Investm.ert Costs                                                                               383.7 222.0  96.8  98.0 800.5                                   1.0   1.0   0.1   0.1   2.6 192.7 136.4  10.4   9.0 349 0 189.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Equipment O&M                              1s                                                    6.7  12.3  13.0  13.7  45.7    CBHII            OEOMEA        6.7  12 3  13.0  13.7  45.7          -      -      -      -      -      -
B. Office Expenditures                   Annual Cost                                               5.6    5.7   5.8   6.0  23.0    CBHII             OTHEA        5.6   5.7   5.8    6.0  23.0
CV. ehicle Maintenance                   Annual Cost                                                .8   201   .5    3.0  11.5    CBHII             VOMEA         _E   2.8   2-9   3.0  121.2         -
Total R .n.rrent Costs                                                                                -15.0 -20.8  21.7  22,6  8~0.2                                15.-0  20.8  21.7 _22.6 _B_Q . 2.l     -             -      -      -      -
Tota1                                                                                                  398.7 242.8 118.5 120.7 880.7                                  16.5  21.9  21.8  22.7  82.8 192.7 136.4  10.4   9.5 349.0 189.5
\a year 1: 6 for central branch and 26 Tirana urban PECS; year 2: 18 Tirana rural administrative PFlCs.
\b floppy disks, tape back-up, etc.
\c for economist.
\d for economist.
\e For branch office staff. Assume a 2 and a half month course at $10T.  ($4T/mo. for fellouchip abroad)
\f $100/day assumption. Fo- branch office staff.
Mon Apr 20 12:27:31 1998
2-1 Capacity Bu-lding _ Health Insurance IOStitute



ALBANIA
Health System ReOcvey and Development Project
Table 2. Capacity Boilding _ Health Insurance Institute
D.t.iled C..t.
99/00 00/01 01/02Toa
48.9  50.0  51.2 197.9
-     -      -   2.2
4.1   2.8   4.3  12.6
-     -      -  53.1
_ -53.1
-     -      - 106.2
1.1   2.3   1.2   6.9
21.7  22.2  22.7  87.9
8.7   8.9   9.,  35.2
35.7  36.3  37.3 251.0
84.6  86.3  88.5 448.9
84.6  86.3  88.5 448.9
2-2 Capacity Building _lealth Icoura1cc  1nstitute



ALBANIA
Health System Recoery and DeveloPment Project
Table 3. Tirana Region Health Management -Regional Health Ac thority
Det.iled Costs
Unit    Totals Including Contingencies (USS            Summarv Divisions                         Expenditures
Ouantities              Cost                       I 'OO)                                  Expenditure         The Gov~ernment
Unit       98/99 99/00 oo/oi 01/02 Total (U5S)  ,               98/99    99/00   00/01   0L/02  Total    u1    Account   98/99 99/00 0Q  OL      01/02 T,otal
I. Inœ-stent Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Reconstruction of existing HII and TRHA offices /a completion %s                   70    30           100                -   140.2    61.5               201.7      RHA       CWOTHEREA        -  14.0   6.1        -  20.2
B. A,chitectural/Engi.eering ServiceS                                Fee                                                     7.0      3.6      1.2         -    11.9      RHA          A&EBA                -      -      -      -
C. OSfice Equipment
1. Personal Computers                                           unit                  20      -     -    20  2,500          -    56.9         -        _    56.9       RHA         OBEQA          -   0.4          -       0.4
2. Laser Printers                                               unit            -    10       _     _    10  1,800          -    20.5         -              20.5      RHA         OBQEA          - 02                     0.2
3. Photocopiers/facsimile machines                lumpsum                                                                   -    79.7         -              79.7      RHA         OEQEA        -      0.6      -         - 0.6
Subtotal Office Equipment                                                                                                       -   157.1         -            157.1                                  -   12                   1.2
D. Vehicles                                                         unit            2      -            _      2 25,000     55.6                  _        _    55.6      RHA          OEQEA       0.4             -      -   0.4
E. Fncoiture
1. Office furniture                                             unit            -    40       -     -    40    600          -    27.3         -        -    27.3       RHA        FURNEA               0.       -          0.6
2. Conference room                                             lumpsum                                                            22.,8       -        -    22.8       RHA        FURNEA          -   O.5       -      - O
Subtotal Furniture                                                                                                              -    50.1                        0.1                                  -   1.1      -      -   1.1
F. Technical Assistance /b                                           mm             6    10      6      5    27 15,000      95.6   163.0   100.0    85.3   443.9          RBA          CBEA           -      -     -      -      -
C;. Training
1. Long Term Fellowships
Health Planning and Finance                                 lumpsum          1      -      -     -      1 50,000    53.1          -        -        -    53.1       RHA        EXTREA
Health Management                                           lumpsum          1            _     _      1 50,000    53.1          -                       53.1      RHA        EXTRPA
PublIic Health /c                                           lumps.m         1I                          2 00,000    53.1    54.3           -        - 107.4         BOA        BXTREA-                       --
Equipment Engineer /d                                         mm             -    12       -     -    12  3,300          -    43.0         -        -    43.O       ROA         PIEA
Subtotal Long Term Fellow-hips                                                                                          159.3    97.4         -        -   256.7                                   -     -      -      -      -
2. Short Tens Fellowships /e                                   lumpsum                                                   10.6    10.9    16.7    11.4    49.5          RHA        EXTREA           _     _      _      _
3. Study Tours                                                 lumpsum                                                      -    21.7    11.1          -    32.8       RHA         EXTPEA
4. Local Training                                               lumpsum                                              ....5A( ..5.7l  .5.,8 ...0    23.0                BOA         LOTREA                -      -      -      -
Subtotal Training                                                  lumsum175.5   1356    3316    17.3   13.h                                                                          LOT2.1EA 
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                          333.8   649.6   196.4   102.6 1,292.3                                   0.4  16.3   6.1        -  22.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Building Maintenance                                          Annual Cost                                                    -      2.8     4.1       4.2    11.1       RhA         BOMEA          -   2.6   3.9   4.0  10.5
B. Equipment 050M                                                Annual Cost                                                    -      6.3      6.4      6.6    19.3       BOA        OBOMEA          -   5.1   5.6   5.8  16.5
C. Vehicle 06M                                                  Annual Cost                                                 5.        6 5,7     5 8      6.O    23.0       RHA         VOMEA        4. 2   4A.6  L5.   5i,2  19.15
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                        5......I     14.A8    1Ad3    16...,L2  53..4.2.                          4.2.,   1.3l.   1.AL    14.9.  46.1.
Total                                                                                                                            339.3   664.4   212.7   119.3 1,335.7                                   4.6  28.7  20.8  14.9  68.9
\a Minor works contracts procured on basis of lowest cost of at least 3 quotations.
\b 4 people.  develop structure and strategy of RBA (6 ms), health planning and finance (9 mm); human resources planning and dev. (6mm); health info. system  (6 mm).
\c 2 persons for a one year, full-time MPH, one with concentration on infectious diseases, mother/child and family planning, and one with concentration of NCDs and injuries.
\d specialization in biomedical equipment standards and mgt. 2 persons for 6 months each
\e 10 people for 3 months each.
Mon Apr 20 12:27:33 1998
3-1 Tir-na Region Health Mauagement - Regional Health Author-ty



ALBANIA
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Table 3. Tirana Region Health Manage-ent - Regional Health Authority
D.tail.d Costs
Dy Financiers (U1S! 000)
IDA
98/99   99/00   00/01   01/02   Total
-   126.2    55.3         -   181.5
7.0     3.6      1.2        -    11.9
-    56.5        -        -    56.5
-    20.3        -        -    20.3
- 79.1        -        -     79.1
-   155.9        -        -   155.9
55.2        -        -       -    55.2
-    26.7        -        -    26.7
22.             -        -    22.3
-    49.0        -        -    49.0
95.6   163.0   155.0    85.3   443.9
53.1        -        -       -    53.1
53.1        -        -       -    53.1
53.1    54.3         -       -   107.4
-    43,0        -        -    4
159.3    97.4         -       -   256.7
10.6    10.9    16.7    11.4    49.5
-    21.7    11.I         -    32.8
--5.5   135_6  -3. 6       17 3   362.1
333.3   633.3   190.2   102.6 1,259.4
-     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.6
-     1.2      0.8      0.8      2.8
1.4  1 1     0,7     0.7      3.9
1.4 5          7     1.8      7.4
334.7   635.7   191.9   104.4 1,266.8
3-2 Tiran. Regio- Health Manoag-n.et . Regioonl Health Authority



ALBANIA
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Table 4. Tirana Regionl .   Health System Delivry - Roral Areas
Detailed Costs
Unit    Totals Including Contingencies (US$             SummarY Divisions                         ExDendit
Ouantities              Cost                      '0G0)-                                  SEpenditore           The Govsna,ot 
Unit       9          O8ua 99t00 00101 01/0l Total (USS)  98/99   99/00    oo/ot   01/02   Total   Comronent    Account   98/99 99/00 00/01 01/oi
I. Investent Costs
A. Co..truetion/Rehebilitation of 27 Rural Health Centers
1. N-e PC Centers
Type 1 Health Centers                                             completion %s             60    40           1lo                _   178.5   121.7           -   300.2   THSRUR         CWRHCEA          -  17.8  12.2        -
Type II Health Centers                                            completion %s             60    40            100               -    48.8    33.3           -    82. 1   THSRUR        CWRHCEA          -   4.9 1 .3         -
Subtotal so. PEC Centers                                                                                                             -   227.3   155.0           -   382.4                                   -  22.7  15. 5
2. Recoostruction of Health Centers
Type I Health Centers                                             completion Its            40    40    20   100-    33.8                        34.6    17.7    86.1   THSRURO           CWRHCRA-   3.4   3.5   1.8
Type II Health Centers                                            completion %s             40    40    20   100                        235.2    3640     18.4    89.5   THSRUR          CWRHCEA               3.5   3.6   1.8
Type III Health Centers                                           completion Is             40    40    20   100                  _   11227  115. 3    59.0   2869   THSRUR              CWRHCEA          -11 .3  11.5   5.9
Subtotal Reconstruction of Health Centers                                                                                            -   181.6   185.8    95.1   462.5                                      1- 1S2  1SB6  9. 5
Subtotal Construction/Rehabilitation of 27 Rur l Health Centers                                                                          -   409.0   340.9    95.1   844.9                                       -  40.9  34.1   9.5
D. Architectural/ERgioeeriog Services
1. New Rural Health Centers                                                Fee                                                    11.1      6.8      4.7         -    22.6   THSRUR           AhEEA          -      -      -      -
2. Rehabilitation of Rural Health Centers                                  Fee                                                    1017 . ..          720       2.9    27.3   THSRUR           A&EEA
Subtotal Architectural/Emgineering Services                                                                                          21.8    13.6       11.0      2.9    49.9                      &EEA
C. Medical Equipment                                                        lumpsum                                                   74.1        -         -        -    74.1   THSRUR           MEQEA       0.6
D. Furniture for Exan Rooms/Clinics                                      completion %s            100                  100               _   120.7         -         -   120T7   THSRUR           MEQEA          - o9
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                    95.9   543.3   352.5    97.9 1,089.5                                     0.6  41.8  34.1   9.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Building Maintenance
1. New Rural Health Centers                                           Annual Cost                                                     -     4.5       7.8      7.9    20.2   THSRUR           BOMEA          -   4.2   7.4   7.5
2. Rehabilitated Rural Health Centers                                 Annual Cost                                                     -     36        74       9 .5   206   THSRUR            BOMEA          -   3.4   7.1   9.0
Subtotal Building Maintenance                                                                                                            -      8.2    15.2    17.4    40.8                                      -   7.6  14.4  16.6
B. Medical Equipment O&M                                                  Annual Cost                                                  3.0      3 0      3J1    3L 2    12.3   THSRUR           MEOMEA         1.8   2.1   2L5   2.5
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                     3.0    11.2    18.3    20.6    53,1                                      1 S   9.7   169  19.1
Total                                                                                                                                      98.8   554.5   370.8   118.5 1,142.6                                     2.3  51.5  51.0  28.6
Mon Apr 20 12:27:35 1998
4-1 T-rano Reg.onal Health System Delivery - Rural Areas



ALBANIA
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Table 4. Tirana Regional Health System Delivery - Rural Areas
Detail.d Casts
ures by Financiers (USS '000)
Tota   9            0 o0/Q    01/02 Tal
30.0        -   160.6   109.6         -   270.2
8.2             43.9    30.0         -    73.9
38.2            204.6   139.5         _   344.1
8.6        -    30.4    31.1    15.9    77.5
9.0        -    31.6    32.4    16.6    80.6
28.7       -   101.4   1037    53.1   258.2
46.3        -   163.5   167.2    85.5   416.3
84.5        -   368.1   306.8    85.5   760.4
-    11.1      6.8     4.7         -    22.6
- 10.7         6.8     7.0      2.9    27.3
-    21.8    13.6    11.6       2.9    49.9
0.6    73.5        -        -        -    73.5
81.9    95.3   501.5   318.4    88.4 1,003.6
19.1        -     0,3      0.4      0.4     1.1
19.5       -      0.3      0.4      0.5     1.1
38.6        -     0.6      0.8      0.9     2.2
8.9     1.2      0.9      0.6      0.6     3.4
47.5     1.2      1.5      1.4      1.5     5.6
133.4    96.5   503.0   319.8    89.9 1,009.2
4-2 Ti-race Regional Health System Delivery - Rural Areas



ALBAN IA
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Table S. Tirana Regional Health System Delivery - Urban Areas
Detailed Co tS
Unit    Totals Including Contingencies (US$            Summary Divisions                        ExDendit
Ouantities             Cost                       000)                                   Expenditure          The Government
Unit        89  9          0001Gt=      l    (US$)  98/99   99/00 00/01   01/02   Total  S              e       Acnt    999 99/00 00/01  01/02
I. lnve-stet Costs
A. Co..tructioa/R.hebilitation of 10 Urban Health Centers
1. New Urban Health Centers                                         completion %S             60    40           100                   310.5   215.2          -   530.7    THSUR         CWUHCEA         -  31.6  21.5        -
2. Rehabilitation of existing Centers                               completion ts             40    30    30   100                 -   501.8   3D5.0   393,9 1 280,7    THSUR            CWUHCEA         -  50.2  38.5  39j4
Sobtot.1 Constructioo/Rehbilitation of 10 Urban Health Centers                                                                        -   817.3   600.2   393.9 1,811.4                                         81.7  60.0  39.4
B. Archit-ctural/Engine,ring Services
1. New Urban Health Centers                                               Fee                                                  15.4      9.5       6.0        -    31.3    THSUR          A&BEA                 -      -      -
2. Rehabilitation of Urban Health Centers                                 Fee                                                  29 4    15l1    15.4    15.8    75.6    THSUR              A&ERA
Subtot-l Architectural/Engi.eering Services                                                                                        44.9    24.5    21.9    15.8   107.0
C  Medical Equipment                                                   completion so            100                 100               -    34.3         -        -    34.3    THSUR          MEQEA          -      -      -      -
D. Furniture for Exam Rooms/Clinics                                    completion as            100                 100                     91 1        -        -    91.1    THSUR           MEOEA
Total Ive-xtnet Coete                                                                                                                  44.9   967.2   622.1   409.6 2,043.7                                      -  81.7  60.0  39.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Medical Equipment O&M                                                Annual Cost                                                   -      1.4      1.4      1.4      4.2    THSUR        MEOMEA           -   1.4   1.4   1.4
D. Building Xlaiten nce
1. New Urban Health Centers                                          Annual Cost                                                   -      6.3    10.8    11.0    28.1    THSUR            BOMEA          -   6.3  10.8  11.0
2. Rehabilitated Urban Health Centers                                Annual Cost                                                   -    10.0    18 0    26.3    54.3    THSUR             BOMBA          -  10 0  180  26.3
Total R-current Costs                                                                                                                           17 7    30.1    38.7    86.    5                  -                  17L7  30.1  38A 7
Total                                                                                                                                   44.9   984.9   652.2   448.3 2,130.3                                      -  99.5  90.2  78.1
Mon Apr 20 12:27 37 1998
S-1 Tsrana Regional Health System Delivery - Urban AreaS



ALBANIA
1Health System Recovery and Development Project
Table 5. Tir     Regioal Health system Delivery - Urban Areas
D.t.iled Costs
ores by Financiers 1USD '000)
IDA
7'al  98/99   99/00--  00/01   01/02   Total
53.1        -   284.0   193.7         -   477.6
128.1        -   451.6        5   354.5 1.152.7
181.1        -   735.6   540.2   354.5 1,630.3
-    15.4      9.5      6.5        -    31.3
-   -29       l       15.4    1S.8    75.6
-    44.9    24.5    21.9    15.8   107,0
-       -    34.3         -        -    34.3
- -    91.1    _        _        9.
181.1    44.9   885.S   562.0   370.2 1,862.6
4.2                -        -        -        -
28.1        -       -
54,3       -        _        _
86.5       -        -        -        -
267.7    44.9   885.5   562.0   370.2 1,862.6
5-2 Tirana Regice.l Health System Delivery   U UrbeS Areas



ALBANIA
Health SyStem Recovery and Development Project
Table 6. Tirana Regional Health Systee Delivery - Hospitals
Detailed Coats
Unit                                                      Summary Divisions
Ouantities             Cost   Totals Including Contingencies (USS '0001                     Expenditure               Thn
Unit      98/99 99/00 00/01 01/02 Total (USSI   98/99    99/00    00/01    01/02    Total    Com aonent   AccounC    98/l9    99/00
I. Inveatsent Coats
A. Rehabilitation of Tirana Regional Hospital
1. New Construction                                             completion Is            30    40    30   100                  -  1,618.2  2,207.2  1,693.5  5,518.8        HOS       CWHOSPEA           -   161.8
2. Rehabilitation of Priority Serviceas/nfrastructure
Morgue                                                       completion ts           100                100                       14.4         -         -     14.4      HOS       CWHOSPBA           -     1.4
Medical Gas System                                           completion Is           100                100                      225.4         -         -    225.4      HOS       CUHOSPEA           -    22.5
Electrical System                                            completion Is            40    40    20   100                  -    110.2    112.7      57.7    280.6       HOS       CWHOSPEA                11.0
Heating System                                               completion Is            40    40    20   150                  -    180.2    153.7       78.6    382.6      HOS       CWHOSPEA                15.0
Roadscaping                                                     lumpsum                                                293.7         -    _              -    293.7      MOS       CWHOSPEA       29.4        -
Subtotal Rehabilitation of Priority Services/Infrastructure                                                                293.7    500..i2    26Z6,A4   136.3  1.196.6                           ...23,4    50.0
Subtotal Rebabilitation of Tirana Regional Hospital                                                                           293.7  2,118.4  2,473.6  1,829.7  6,715.4                                  29.4   211.8
B. Archit-ctural/Engineering Services
1. Equipment Specialist /a                                           on             3     2      2     1      8 15,000     47.8      32.6      33.3      17.1    130.8      HOS         PIEA             -        -
2. New Construction                                                   Fee                                                 126.5      97.1      66.2      33.9    323.7      HOS         A&EEA            -        -
3. National Consultants /b                                           my             2     2      2     2      8  2,400       5.3      5.5       5.6       5.7      22.1     HOS         AMEEA            -        -
4. Hospital Planning Training /c                                      ls                                                    5.3          -        -         -       S.3     HOS        EXTREA
Subtotal ArCbitectural/Engineering Services                                                                                   185.0    135.1    105.1       56.6    481.9                                   -        -
C. Equipment
1. General Services Equipment
Telecommunications Systems                                      lumpsum                                                222.5         -                        222.5      HOS         MEQEA          1.7
Heating System                                                  lumpsum                                                222.5         _                        222.5      HOS         MEQEA          1.7
Electrical System                                               lumpsum                                                166.9          -        -         -    166.9      HOS         MEQEA          1.3
Morgue                                                          lumpsum                                                 27.8         -         -         -      27.8     HOS         MRQEA          0.2    _
Subtotal General Services Equipaent                                                                                        639.8         -        _         _    639.8                                 4.8
2. Medical Equipment for Ne. Construction
Diagnostic Services                                               ls                                                        -         -  1,251.8         -  1,251.8      HOS         MEQBA            -
Intensive Care                                                   1i                                                         _        _    777.8          -    777.8      MOS         MEQEA
Laboratory Services                                               ls                                                        -         -    770.8         -    770.8      HOS         MEQEA            -        -
Admissions                                                      lumpsum                                                     -         -    132.7         -    132.7      MOS         OEQEA            -    _
Subtotal Medical Equipnent for New Construction                                                                                -         -  2,933.2         -  2,933.2                                   -
3. Medical Equipment for Rehabilitated Facilities /d
Surgery                                                         lunpsum                                                     -  1,229.3         -         -  1,229.3      HOS         MEQEA            -     9.2
Sterilization                                                   lumpsum                                             ,       -    1024          -         - ....4         HOS         MEQEA            -     0.8
Subtotal Medical Equipment for Rehabilitated Facilities                                                                        -  1331.7           -        -  1331.7
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                            639.8  1,331.7  2,933.2           -  4,904.7                                4.8    10.0
D. Furniture
1. For New Construction                                         completion to                  100          100                -         -    232.9         -    232.9       HOS         MEQEA           -        -
E. Support for Operational Expenditures /s
1. Medical Supplies                                                   ls                                                   890.1    569.1    302.7          -  1,762.0       HOS         MEQEA
F. Mgt. Training - Hospital Administration /f
Technical Advisor for MDS /9                                          om            -   1.5      -     -   1.5 15,000          -      24.4         -        -      24.4      HOS         CBRA            -        -
Technical Advisor for Chief Nurses /h                                 on            -    10      -     -    10 12,000          -    130.4          -        -    130.4       OOS         CBEA
Fellowships /i                                                      course          -     1      1     -      2  7,500         -       8.1      8.3         -      16.5      HOS        EXTREA
Department heads training /j                                        COURSE          -     4      -      -     4  1,000         -       4.6         -         -      4.6      HOS        LOTREA
Chief NMoies Training /k                                            Course          -     4      -     -      4  2,000          - ----- 9.1        -. .                     MHOS        LOTREA           - _
Subtotal Mgt. Training - Hospital Administration                                                                                  -    176.6      8.3           -    185.                                            -
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                          2,008.6  4,331.0  6,055.9  1,886.4 14,281.9                                   34.2   221.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Building Maintenance
1. New Building                                                  Annual Cost                                                   -      32.4     77.3    112.9    222.s        HOS         .OMEA           -    29.9
2. Rehabilitated Infrastructure                                  Annual Cost                         5.9                              16.0     21.7  12 i4.9                 HOS         BOMEA              __4A .49
Subtotal Building Maintenance                                                                                                   5.9      48.4      99.0    137.8    291.0                                 5.3    44.7
B. Equipment Maintenance
1. Medical Equipment for New Construction                        Annual Cost                                                   -         -    117.3    120.0    237.4        HOS       MEOMEA            -        -
2. Medical Equipment for  Rehabilitated Infrastructure           Annual Cost                                                   -      53.3 ---- 5.4...5    55.7    163.5     HOS        MEOMEA                 37.3
Subtotal Equipment Maintenance                                                                                                     _    53.3       1       175.8    400.0                                         37.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                5.9    101       270 8    313.6    691.9                                5.:i   82.
Total                                                                                                                            2,014.5  4,432.7  6,326.7  2,200.0 14,973.8                                   39.5   303.9
\a 4 months for general services (e.g., heating, medical gasses, coounicatison) equipment, and 4 months for medical equipment.
\b Engineer and architect full time for 4 years.
\c Training course - 1 month in comparable hospital setting in Europe.
\d Surgery services area is being rehabilitated currently, using Govt. funding.
\e Possible ECHO Program financing (EU).
\f Possible USAID financing.
\g External TA to support development of course curriculum and run the course. Twinning possibity for financing.
\h Two TA to design curriculum and run courses.  Twinning arrangement possible -- Swiss
\i Three month courses. Assume unit cost - $2500.00 per month inclusive.  Specific areas of hospital management, including medical equipment specialization (engineer).
\j Two weeks training (in one week courses) for eacn department head. Assume 30 department heads split into two groups.
\k Assume 80 nurses, four courses, twenty in each. One month in length.
Mon Apr 20 12:27:39 1998
6-1 Tirana Regional Health Syotsc Delivery - Hospitals



ALBANIA
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Table 6. Tirana Regional Health System Delivery - Hospitals
Detailed Ca.tm
eExenditures bv Financiers (UOSS '000)
00/01   01/02         l     9/99      99/00       IDA_                Total    98/99    99/00    00/01    102   Total
220.7   169.3   551.9            -  1,456.4   1,986.5  11524.1  4,966.9              -         -        -        -         -
-        -      1.4          -      13.0          -          -      13.0         -        -        -         -
-        -    22.9           -    202.8           -          -    202.8              -             -         -        -
11.3      9.8     28.1          -      99.2      101.4       51.9     252.5         -        -         -        -         -
15.4      7.9     38.3                135.2      138.3      70.8    344.3 
- -    29.4    264.4                                       264                 -      --4
26.6    91.5    i...7    264.4    450.2          239.8    21226  100770               0
247.4   183.0   671.5        264.4  1,906.5  2,226.2  1,646.8  6,043,9               -         -        -        -         -
-        -        -      47.8       32.6      33.3       17.1     130.8          -        -        -         -        -
-        -        -    126.5        97.1      66.2       33.9     323.7          -        -        -         -        -
-        -        -       5.3        5.5        5.6       5.7       22.1         -        -        -         -        -
5 .3        -          -          -       5 .3    _-                    -         -        -
-        -         -    185.0      135.1     105.1       56.6     481.9          -        -        -         -        -
_        -      1.7     220.9           -         -          -    220.9          -        -        -         -
-        -      1.7     220.9           -         -          -    220.9          -        -        -         -        -
1.3     165.6          -          -         -    165.6          -         -        -        -         -
-0-     O 2      27.6          -          -         -      27.6         -
-        -      4.8     635.0          -          -          -    635.0              -         -        -             -
-        -        -          -         -  1,251.8            -  1,251.8         -         -        -         -        -
_        _        _          _          -    777.8           -    777.8          -        -        -
_   _   _        _          -    ~~~~~~770.8     -     770.8         -
*   -     -          -    770 .97         - 71327             -        -         -        -        -
-        -        -          -         -  2,933.2            -  2,933.2          -        -        -         -        -
-        -      9.2          -1,220.1             -          -1,220.1            -        -        -         -        -
-    _  O 8          -    1017            -         -     101.7     _-                     -         -        -
-        -   10.         _-1.321.8                -         -3_                                      - 1.321.8-- -
-        -    14.8      635:0  1,321.8  2,933.2              -  4,889.9          -        -        -         -        -
-        -        -          -         -    232.9            -    232.9          -        -        -         -        -
-   -   -   -   -   -  -  -   890.1    569.1   302.7      - 1,762.0
-  -         -        ~~~~- 24.4         -         -    24.4
-         -          -        - ~  130.4         -        -   130.4
_-_       -          -        -      8.1      8.3         -    16.5
-   -   -   -   -   -  -  -   -      4.6         -        -      4.6
_______  _______                                _          _         -        -       9, 176.6    _.3 5,. -       9
247,4    183.0   686.3  1,084.3  3,363.4  5,497.5  1,703.4 11,648.6   890.1   745.8   311.1                      - 1,947.0
73.4    107.3   210.6           -        2.4       3.9        5.6      11.9         -        -         -        -         -
20.6     23.7    64.4         0 6        3 6       1 1        1 2       4.1         -     _-
54.0    130.9   275.0         0.6        3.6       4.9        6.9      16.1         -                  -        -        -
93.9     96.0    899.9          -          -      23.5      24.0       47.5         -        -         -        -         -
43.6     44.6   125.5           -      160        109        11.1      38.0                                     -
137.5   140.6   315.4             -      1         3434 5.32            85.5         -        -         -        -         -
23195   271.6   590.4          0.6       19.6      39.3       42.0    1016           -
478.8   454.5 1,276.7  1,084.9  3,383.0   5,536.8   1,745.4 11,750.2    890.1   745.8   311.1                    -1,947.0
6-2 Tirana Regi-al Health System Deliveri y - Hospitals



ALBANIA
Health System ReCovery and Devel0pmen.t Project
Table 7. Tirana Regional Health Service Delivery - Polyclinics
Detailed Costs
Unit      Totals Including Contingencies (USS          Summary Diviajons                       Emoenditures
Ouantities              Coat                        'SOS0)                                "Rpenditure          heGvnent
UnDit~~ 56/99 99u005a5aia    )CsS)    98/99   99/00   00/01   01/02   Total   C omponent                                                . 98/99  re9/9  -   01/02 Total
S. Investmeat Costs
A. Medical Equipment
1. Radiology and Diagnostic                             lumpsum          -     1      _            1 1,894,000        - 2,155.8         -       - 2,155.8      POL         MBQEA          _     _      _     _
2. Emergency and Gypsum Room /a                         lumpsum          -     1                   1    38.500        -    43.8                       43.8     POL         MEQEA
3. Gynecology /b                                        lumpsum          -     I      -     -      1    13,600        -    1..5                       15.5     ROL         MEQEA          _     _      _     _
4. Otorhinoloringology (ORL)                             lumpsu\         -     1           _      1    67,800        -    77.2         _       _    77.2       POL        MEQBA          -            _     _      _
S. Physiotherapy                                        lumpsum          -     I      -            1    54,000             61.5         -       -    61.5      POL         MEQBA          _     _      _            _
6. Dermatology                                           lumpsum         -     1      _     _      1    27,000        -    30.7        -        -    30.7      POL         MEQEA          -     _      _     _      _
7. Sterilization                                         lumpsum               I                   1   477,000        - 542.9           -       - 542.9        POL         MEOER          -     -      - 
S. Clinical Laboratory                                   lumpsum         -     I      -        -       3944,00        -   448.9                    5448.9      POL         MEQEA                _      _     _      _
9. Opthamology                                           lumpaum         -     1      -            1    94,500        -   107.6         -       -   107.6      POL         MEQBA          _     _      _     _      _
Subtotal Medical Equipment                                                                                               - 3,483.9         -       - 3,483.9                                    -         -      -     -
S. Furniture for Exam Rooms/Clinics                      completion ts                 100          100                  _        -    87.3        -    87.3       POL        MEQBA
C. Support for Operational ERpeaditures
1. Medical Supplies                                        is                                                     166.9   113.8    46.6         -   327.3      POL         MEQEA          _     _      _     _
D. Rebabilitation of 3 Specialised Polyclinics
1. Polyclinic 1                                      completion ts            70    30           100                  -   131.5    57.6         -   189.1      POL        CWPOLEA         -  12.0   5.2      -  17.2
2. Polyclinic 2                                      completion ts            70    30           100                  -   131.5    57.6         -   189.1       POL       CWPOLEA         -  12.0   5.2          17.2
3. Polyclinic 3                                      completion ts            60    40          100                   -   150.2   102.5         -   252.27       OL       CWPGLEA         _  13.7  9.3           23.0
Subtotal Rehabilitation of 3 Specialized Polyclinics                                                                     -   413.2   217.7         -   630.9                                 -  37.6  19.8       -  57.4
E. Architectural/Engineering Services                         Fee                                                    1.4aA      9.4A    O.A              37.4      POL A4EEA                  -                        -
Total Investment Costa                                                                                                   185.3 4,020.3   361.3          - 4,566.8                                -  37.6  19.8       -  57.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Medical Equipment O&M                                  Annual Cost                                                     -   139.4   142.6   145.8   427.8        POL        MEOMEA         - 139.4 142.6 145.8 427.8
B. Building Maintenance                                   Annual Cost                                                     -     8.3    12.S    13.1    34.2        POL         BOMEA         _ 8.3  12.B  13.1  34.2
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                         -   147.61   155.4   158.9   461.9                                 - 147.6 155.4 158.9 461.9
Total                                                                                                                     185.3 4,167.9   516.6   158.9 5,028.8                                   - 185.2 175.2 158.9 519.3
\a to be supplied to only one polyclinic.
\b to be supplied to only one polyclinic.
Mon Apr 20 12:27:42 1998
7-1 Tirana Regional Health Service Delivery - Polyclinics



ALBANIA
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Table 7. Tirana Regional Health Seroics Delivery - Polyclinics
Detailed Costs
by Financiers (US5 5000)
Italian Gn7vermmlent
98/99   9922L/    00/01   01/02   Total
- 2,155.8        -        - 2,155.8
-    43.8        -        -    43.8
-    15.5        -        -    15.5
-    77.2        -        -    77.2
-    61.5        -        -    61.5
-    30.7        -        -    30.7
-   542.9        -        -   542.9
-   448.9        -        -   448.9
-   107.6        -        -   107 6
- 3,483.9        -        - 3,483.9
-       -    87.3         -    87.3
166.9   113.8    46.6         -   327.3
-   119.5    52.4         -   171.9
-   119.5    52.4         -   171.9
-   136.6    93.2         -   229.7
-   375.6   198.0         -   573.6
18.4      9.4     9.6        -    37.4
185.3 3,982.8   341.5          -4,509.5
185.3 3,982.8   341.95           4,509.5
7-2 Tirana Regional Health Service Delivery   Polyclinics



ALBANIA
Health System Recovery and Development PrOject
TaDle 8. Upgrading Professional Skills
Detailed Costs
Unit         Totals Including              Summary Divisions                  Expenditures by Financiers (USS  EEOC
quantities              Coat    Continnencies CUSS  EEO_                      Expenditure           The Government                 Italian Government
Unit       98/99 20/  00/01 01/02 T                                  _USS)  95/99 99/00 0001 01/02 Total  Component  _o        98/99 992/0  00/01 01/02 Total  129  ss/Do Do/o  01/02
I. Investaset Costs
A. Staff Training Activities
1. GP Training Activiti.s
Training the Trainers /a                       m             -      6                   6 1S,000          97.8      - _       97.8      MCS         EXTREA          -                                 -  97.8      -
Didactic Equipment /b                       lump.um          4      -                   4  4,000  17.6              -      -  17.8      MCS          OEQEA          _            _         -      17.8
Technical Documents and Materials /c    lumpsum                                                      5.6   5.7   5.a   6.0  23.0        MCS          OEQEA          -            _             -   5.6   5.7   5.8   6.0
Trainer Per Diems /d                        session          -      4      4      2    10  3,600       -  16.4  16.6   8.6  41.7        MCS         LOTREA          -     -      -      -             -  16.4  16.8   8.6
Trainee ParqDiems /e                         session         -      4      4      2    10 12,000. _.04 54..1L55.928g.6 1390,J           BCS         LOTIZEA                                         -  - .551   2 -
Subtotal GP Training Activities                                                                        23.4 174.5  76.5  43.1 319.5                                  M LO                    T gEA 23.4 174.5  78.5  43.1
2. Nurses Training Activities
Training the Trainers /f                       mm            -      4      -      -     4 1,000       -  65.2      -      -  65.2      MCS          CBEA           -      -     -      -      -      -  6s.2      -
Didactic Equipment /g                        lumpsum         4      -      _      _     4  4,000  17.8        -     -      -17.S        MCS          OEQEA          -      -17.                              -     -      -
Technical Documents and Materials /h           1s                                                    5.6   S.7   5.8   6.0  23.0        MCS          DEQEA                                         5 0.6   5.7   5.8   6.0
Trainer fees /i                                fee                                                 19.6  41.2       -      -  61.0      BCE         LOTIREAi        -      .                      19.8  41.2       -      -
Trainee Fees /j                          completion ts    33    67                    100          79.3 164.7              - 244.0      MCS         LOTgEA          -                             7-  -  - .   .3 . 16.27
Subtotal Nurses Training Activities                                   1a22.                                            5 276. s    .8 6.0 4.1                                                       1 22,5 276.8   5.8    6.0
Total                                                                                                          145.9 451.3  84.3  49.1 730.5                                           -                   - 145.9 451.3  84.3  49.1
\a 6 GPs for 6 months each N $2,500/person/month. Cost includes round-trip fare, tuition, board and books. $15,000/person/OVerseas course.
\b AV Equipment, etc. for two training rooms.
\c Reproduction of EU PHARE materials already in use under their project.
\d $10/day m 20 = $200 m 3 mo..s    $600/pers.n/session.  x6 = $3600.  Yrs. 2, 3 and 4.
\e $8/day x 20 days = $160/person month.  250 MDs.  25/session.  10 sessions of 3 no. each.  512,000/session.  implementation in yrs. 2, 3 and 4.
\f 2 expatriate nurses to train 12 Albanian trainers for 2 months.
\g AV Equipmnt, etc. for four training rooms.
\h Will use EU PHARE materials already in use under their project. Reproduction necessary.
\i Training fee for 12 trainers N $250/mo. x 18 months.
\j $8/day x 30 days x 900 nurses.
Mon Apr 20 12:27:43 1998
8-1 Upgrading Professional Skills



ALBANIA
Health System Recovery and Developm.ent Project
Table 8. Upgrading Professional Skills
Detailed Costs
Total
97.8
17.8
23.0
41.7
1391
319.5
65.2
17.8
23.0
61.0
730.5
8-2 Upgrading Professi-oal Skills



ALBANIA
Health System Recovery and Development Project
Table 9. Project Managemett
Detailed Costs
Un,t         Totals Including               Summary Divisions                    Emomoditures by Financiers CUS5 'SoC
quantities               Cost    Continlencies  IU35 '000)                      Expenditure           The Government                            IDA
Unit       98/99   99/00 0/01 01/02 Total (USS)  98/9 9                  00/01   _1/02S9e_nl_    Account   989  99/00 00/01 01/02 Total 21222 99/00 00/01 01/02 Total
1. Ine-stannt Costs
A. Office Equipment                      lumpsum                                                38.9      -      -      -  30.9       PM          OEQEA        0.3       -     -      _     .0  3  .7      -      -          38.7
B. Office Furniture                      lumpoum                                                27.8      -      -         27.8       PM         FURNESA       0.6             -      - 0.6  27.2          -      -      -27.2
C. Vehicle                                unit           1      - I                 1 25,000  27.8        -      -      -  27.8       PM          OEQEA        0.2                         0 0.2  27.6     -      -      -  27.6
D. llternal TA
1. External Audit                       mm           1      1             1      4 15,000  15.9  16.3  16.7  17.1  66.0           PM           PIEA           -                           -  15.9  16.3  16.7  17.1  66.0
2. Management Advisory Support          me           6      5      3      3    17 15,000  95.i  8.5.~  ..24.0  51.24  278.3       FM           PIEA                         -             -            ,2  50.0  51.  2783
Subtotal Internal TAm                                                                          111.5  97.8  66.7 60 .2 344.2 3       P                                         -      -        111.5  97.6  66.7  68.2 344.2
E. Local Coosultato
1. Project Director                     me          12    12    12    12    48    180   2.3   2.3   2.4   2.9   9.5               PM           PIEA           -      -      -2.3   2.3   2.4   2.5   9.5
2. Procurement Specialists /a           mm          24    24    24    24    96    160   4.1   4.2   4.3    4.4  16.9              PM           PIEA           -      -      -      -      -   4.1   4.2   4.3   4.4  16.9
3. Accountant                           mm          12    12    12    12    48    140   1.8   1.8   1.9   1.9   7.4               PM           PIEA                         _      -          2 0 8   1.6    1.9   1.9   7.4
4. CiVil Works Engineer                 me          12    12    12    12    48    160   2.0   2 .1   2.1   2.2   8.4              PM           PIEA           -             -      -      - 2.0   2.1   2.1   2.2   8.4
S. Administrative Asst.                 m           12    12    12    12    48          90  _1"    1.2  _1.2   1.2   4.7          PM           PIEA                                                 -, -  -  -   1.1   .2   1.2   1.2  4.7
Subtotal Local Coo.oltants                                                                      11.3  11.6  11.9  12.1  47.0                                      -     -      -      -      -  11.3  11.6  11.9  12.1  47.0
F. Staff Training
1. Study Tours /b                    lumpsum         2      1      1      1      5  5,500  11.7   6.0   6.1   6.3  30.0           PM          EXTREA          -      -      -      -      -  11.7   6.0   6.1   6.3  30.0
2. Workshops                          course         2      2      2      2      8  2,500   5.6   5         -7   . 6     30       PM          LOTREA        -         -   _                - 5.6     5.7 .5...   6.0   23.0
Subtotal Staff6 Traininog                                                                      1-7.  -11    11,.9  2.2153 1                                                   -         --       22-2  11.7  11.9 12.2   53.
Total InsentIent Cost.                                                                             234.7 121.1  90.5  92.6 538.8                                     1       -      -           1.1 233.6 121.1  90.5  92.6 537.7
IX. Recurrant Costs
A. Equipment O&M                       Annual Cost                                               1.6   1.6   1.6   1.7   6.4          PM         OEOMEA        1.2    1.3   1.4   1.5   5.3   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.2   1.1
B. Vehicle OEM                         Annual Cost                                               2.8   2.8   2.9   3.0  11.5          PM          VOMEA        2.1   2.3   2.5   2.6   9.6   0.7   0.5   0.4    0.4   2.0
C. Office supplies                         Is                                                   .2J2  2.31    2-3  2.4  -12-          PM          OTHEA      _.._2   1...2..   0  _.Q il Q   7.3,  0.71.  ..0.,.-2 .1.  0.4.1.   1.9
Total Recurrent Coat.                                                                              ..J2   6,7   6...9  7...  .27.2                               ..A-,k   5.4  62,.0  __...JA   22.2..  __"..  1.3.L  .0.92   L.9 ..1.0
Total                                                                                               241.2 127.8  97.4  99.6 566.0                                    5.9    5.4   6.0   6.1  23.4 235.3 122.4  91.4  93.5 542.6
\a One procurement specialist initially, with provision for a second, given major procurement work involved.
\b Study tours for project management staff.
Mon Apr 20 12:27:44 1998
9-1 Project Managgeme. lt



ALBANIA
Hiealth System Recovery and Devlopmet Project
Procurement Arrangeme,ts
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
International       Local
Competitive   Competitive  International           Local        Consulting
- iddin_           Bidding                        Shoppino        Services    N3F  Ttl
A. Civil Works                                  8.5             0.8                _            0.2                     0.6   10.2
(7.7)           (0.8)                           (0.2)                           (8.8)
B. Equipment                                    6       0.06                    0.2             0.0                     5.8   11.9
(5.9)                           (0.2)           (0.0)                           (6.2)
C. Pharmaceuticals                                 -               -               -               -                           (  2
D. Technical Assistance/Training                   -               -               -               -            2.2     2.3    4.4
(2.2)           (2.2)
E. Recurrent Costs                                 -               -               -            0.0            (        1.4    1.5
Total                                           14.5             0.8             0.2             0.2             2.2   10.1   28.0
(13.6)           (0.8)           (0.2)           (0.2)           (2.2)   (0.1)  (17.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
Mon Apr 20 12:27:46 1998
1O-l Project Ma-agemect



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: APPENDIX 3
Equipment



Project Implementation Plan - Appendix 3
ALBANIA: HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Standard List of Equipment to be Supplied in every Outpatient Polyclinic of the City of Tirana
Equipment                    Unit Cost   Polyclinic I    Polyclinic 2    Polyclinic 3         Total Cost
(US$0003)   Qnty    Cost   Qnty    Cost    Qnty    Cost    Qnty    Cost
1. Radiology and
Diagnostic Units
Ultrasound system general           65.0       1    65.0        1    65.0        1    65.0        3    195.0
Electroenophalograph               35.0                                         1    35.0        1    35.0
Blood vessels dopler with
periphenc sond 7.5                   8.0                                         1      8.0       1      8.0
Electrocardiograph 3 ch.             5.0       1     5.0        1      5.0       1     5.0        3     15.0
Upper fibro gastroscope             15.0       1    15.0        1    15.0        1    15.0        3    45.0
Fiberscopic table, trolley & suction  8.0      1      8.0       1     8.0        1      8.0       3    24.0
Fiberscopic Illuminator              4.0       1     4.0        1      4.0       1     4.0        3     12.0
Fiberscopic cleaning machine        15.0       1    15.0        1     15.0       1     15.0       3    45.0
X-ray system                       100.0       1   100.0        1   100.0        1   100.0        3    300.0
Diagnostic TV system               150.0       1   150.0        1   150.0        1   150.0        3   450.0
Remote Control TV system           200.0       1   200.0        1   200.0        1   200.0        3   600.0
X-ray film viewer                    1.0       2      2.0       2      2.0       2      2.0       6      6.0
X-ray film cassette set              3.0       2      6.0       2      6.0       2      6.0       6     18.0
Film Marker                          3.0       2      6.0       2      6.0       2      6.0       6     18.0
Protctive floor screen               3.0       2      6.0       2      6.0       2      6.0       6     18.0
Protective gloves, apron, goggles    1.0       4      4.0       4      4.0       4      4.0      12    12.0
Autodeveloper Table top             10.0       1    10.0        1    10.0        1     10.0       3    30.0
Autodeveloper                       20.0       1    20.0        1    20.0        1    20.0        3    60.0
Manual development set               1.0       1      1.0       1      1.0       1      1.0       3      3.0
SUB-TOTA  _                                        617.0            660.0           1894.0



Project Implementaton Plan - Appendix 3
Equipment                   Unit Cost   Polyclinic I    Polyclinic 2    Polyclinic 3       Total Cost
(US$000s)   Qnty    Cost   Qnty    Cost   Qnty    Cost   Onty    Cost
2. Clinical Laboratory
Medical Refrigerator                1.0       1     1.0       1      1.0       1     1.0       3      3.0
Microscope                          8.0      2    16.0        2    16.0       2    16.0        6    48.0
Incubator                           3.0       1     3.0       1      3.0       1     3.0       3      9.0
Heat Sterilizer                     3.0      3      9.0       3      9.0      3      9.0       9    27.0
Steam sterilizer (vertical)        10.0       1    10.0       1    10.0        1    10.0       3    30.0
Water bath                          1.0       2     2.0       2      2.0       2     2.0       6      6.0
Mixer                               1.0       1     1.0       1      1.0       1     1.0       3      3.0
Rotator mixer                       1.0       1     1.0       1      1.0       1     1.0       3      3.0
Blood sedimentation set             5.0      2    10.0        2    10.0       2    10.0        6    30.0
Hemoglobin meter                    5.0       1     5.0       1      5.0      1      5.0       3     15.0
Coagulometer                       20.0       1    20.0       1    20.0       1    20.0        3    60.0
Electrolyte Analyzer               10.0       1    10.0       1    10.0       1    10.0        3    30.0
Clinical Spectrophotometer         10.0       1    10.0       1    10.0        1    10.0       3    30.0
ph Meter                            2.5       1     2.5       1      2.5       1     2.5       3      7.5
Bench Centrifuge                    3.0      3      9.0       3      9.0      3      9.0       9    27.0
Hematocrite centrifuge              2.0       1     2.0       1      2.0       1     2.0       3      6.0
Water distillation system           3.5       1     3.5       1      3.5       1     3.5       3    10.5
Slide staining set & slide warmer   1.0       1     1.0       1      1.0       1     1.0       3      3.0
Slide rack                          1.0       1     1.0       1      1.0       1     1.0       3      3.0
Laboratory Glass set                1.5       3     4.5       3      4.5      3      4.5       9    13.5
Electrophoresis                     3.0      2      6.0       2      6.0      2      6.0       6     18.0
Automatic micropipette 5-50
(microliter)                        0.4       3     1.2       3      1.2       3     1.2       9      3.6
Automatic micropipeKte 50-200
microliter                          0.4      3      1.2       3      1.2      3      1.2       9      3.6
Automatic micropipeKte 200-1000
microliter                          0.4       2     0.8       2      0.8       2      0.8      6      2.4
Electronic timer                    0.3       3     0.8       3      0.8       3     0.8       9      2.3
SUBTOTAL                        131.5            131.5           131.5            394.4
3. Ophthamology Unit
Ophtalmometer with table           10.0       1    10.0       1    10.0        1    10.0       3    30.0
Slit lamp with table               10.0       1    10.0       1    10.0        1    10.0       3    30.0
Sight tester with table             0.5       1     0.5       1      0.5       1      0.5      3      1.5
Trial lens set                      1.0       1      1.0      1      1.0       1      1.0      3      3.0
Fundus camera with table            2.0       1     2.0       1      2.0       1      2.0      3      6.0
Binocular Magnifier                 8.0       1     8.0       1      8.0       1      8.0      3    24.0
SUBTOTAL                         31.51            31.5             31.5            94.5



Project Implementation Plan - Appendix 3
Equipment                   Unit Cost   Polyclinic I    Polyclinic 2    Polyclinic 3       Total Cost
(US$000s)   Qnty    Cost   Qnty    Cost   Qnty    Cost   Qnty    Cost
4. Ear. Nose and Throat (ORL)
Head mirror                         0.2       3     0.6       3      0.6       3     0.6       9      1.8
Oto-nasal scope set                 0.5       1     0.5       1      0.5       1     0.5       3      1.5
ORL Treatment unit with chair      10.0       1    10.0       1    10.0        1    10.0       3    30.0
Suction pump                        1.5       1     1.5       1      1.5       1      1.5      3      4.5
Laryngoscope set                    2.0      5    10.0        5    10.0        5    10.0      15    30.0
SUBTOTAL                         22.6             22.6            22.6             67.8
S. Physiotherapy Unit
Hot pack warmer                     0.3      2      0.6       2      0.6      2      0.6       6      1.8
Hot pack set,                       0.2      2      0.4       2      0.4       2     OA        6      1.2
Low frequency therapy unit          5.0       1     5.0       1      5.0       1     5.0       3     15.0
Microwave therapy unit              5.0       1     5.0       1      5.0       1      5.0      3    15.0
Ultrasound therapy unit             4.0       1     4.0       1      4.0       1     4.0       3    12.0
Ultraviolet lamp unit               1.0       2     2.0       2      2.0       2      2.0      6      6.0
lnfrared ray therapy unt            1.0       1     1.0       1      1.0       1      1.0      3      3.0
SUBTOTA                          18.0             t8.0            18.0             54.0
6. Dermnatology.
Electro radio cauter                3.0       1     3.0       1      3.0       1      3.0      3      9.0
Cryoskin                            6.0       1     6.0       1      6.0       1      6.0      3    18.0
SUBTOTA                           9.0              9.0             9.0             27.0



Project Implementation Plan - Appendix 3
Equipment                    Unit Cost   Polyclinic 1    Polyclinic 2    Polyclinic 3         Total Cost
(USsooos)   Onty    Cost   Qnty    Cost    Qnty    Cost    Onty    Cost
7. Sterilization Unit
Steam steriliser with generator    120.0       1   120.0        1   120.0        1   120.0        3   360.0
Steam steriliser table top          10.0       3    30.0        3    30.0        3    30.0        9    90.0
Hot air steriliser                   3.0       3      9.0      3       9.0       3     9.0        9    27.0
SUBTOTAL                         159.0            159.0            159.0            477.0
8. GYNECOLOGY
Examination table                    5.0                                         1     5.0        1      5.0
Colposcoope set                      7.0                                         1     7.0        1      7.0
Gynecological examination unit       0.5                                        2       1.0       2      1.0
Cusco's vaginal speculum set         0.2                                         2     0.3        2      0.3
Kristellees vaginal speculum set     0.2                                         2      0.3       2      0.3
SUBTOTAL                                                            13.6             13.6
9. EMERGENCY AND GYPSUM
RQOM
Operation table                     10.0                                         1    10.0        1     10.0
Plaster table                       10.0                                         1    10.0        1    10.0
Operation lamp mobile with
emergency unit                       8.0                                         1      8.0       1      8.0
Emergency Room Instruments-          3.0                                         3      9.0       3      9.0
Suction pump                         1.5                                         1      1.5       t      1.5
SUBTOTAL                                                            38.5             38.5
GRAND TOTAL                          988.6           988.6            1083.7           3060.8
* Prices are estimates
Instruments include: Mosquito hemostatic forceps, scissors, small operation instrument set, standard operating scissors
May dissecting scissors, Metzembaum scissors, dressing forceps, tissue forceps



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: APPENDIX 4
Implementation Responsibilities



Pmeect Wernentatio Plan - Appendix 4
REPUBLIC OF ALBANA
HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart: I_         _ 
ADDITIONAL RESOURCE
COMPONENT                         ACTIVITY                     IMPLEMENTING AGENCY                      REQUIREMENTS
Component 1:                Technicl asistance                   MOH, NIPlH, HIl                     Office Equipment
NATIONAL CAPACITY           OfieEupetMIS
BUILDING                    Office Equipment                                                         TecicAl Assistance
Staff Training                                                          Staff Training
Umited cvil works rehabilitation
Training                                                               I
Component 2:                Establishment of Tirana Regiona Health  MOH, with incroasing support from  2 profusional staff
GOVERNANCE AND              Authority (TRHAI                            newlytd TRKA                 Office E     t
MANAGEMENT OF HEALTH        Umited civil works rehabilitation                                        Staff TraEhipnt
SYSTEM IN TIRANA REGION    Equipment and training
Component 3:                Civil works rehabilttion of and medical  MOH                             Technicai Assistance
UPGRADING TIRANA HEALTH   equipment for: Tirana Hospital, 3                                          Office Equipment and Materials
CARE DEUVERY SYSTEM         polyclinics, primay health centers                                       Ubrary
Technical Assistance                                                    Staff Training
Component 4:                Implementation of Project Activities  MON                                1 Prolect Director
IProcurement Specialist
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                                                   1 Accountant
1 Engineer/Architect
1 Admrinstrative Assstant
1 Driver
Offilce Equipment
Stuwy tours/training for senior officers
F.T. -ug time staff         P.S. Pnermannt Staff



REPUBLTC OALBANIA
SThR OPATSAT, EFPRI
ANNEX2
TIrana Regional Health Authority: Concept and Responsibilities



Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
Tirana Regional Health Authority: Terms of Referente
(Draft of January 1998)
1.    A Regional Health Authority would be established with responsibility for the
planning and management of the health system in Tirana. Specifically, the TRHA would
be responsible for the following in the Region:
a)    Determining and updating the health service needs of the population on
the basis of most recent estimates of population, morbidity, mortality and service
utilization from the National Institute of Statistics, Institute of Public Health and
Ministry of Health.
b)    On the basis of policies formulated by the Ministry of Health, identifying
priorities and prepare 3-year rolling investment and strategic plans.
c)    Preparing annual budgets for the Tirana Regional Health System, on the
basis of health service needs and strategic priorities defined in the investment
plans. Operational guidelines would be mandated by the Ministry of Health and
resources projected with the Health Insurance Institute (HII).
d)    Managing institutions and personnel in Tirana Region.
e)   Informing and educating health workers ad the public on the roles and
appropriateness of different levels and forms of health service delivery.
2.    The TRHA would be constituted of four Operational Units. The head of each
Unit would be a member of the Regional Health Management Team (RHMT) that would
manage the TRHA on a day-to-day basis. The four Units would be the following:
a)    Planning. Finance and Evaluation: Planning, overall coordination of
resource management, supervision of health facilities and service providers,
monitoring and evaluation. The Head of the Planning, Finance and Evaluation
Unit would also be the Executive Director of the TRHA. He/She would be
appointed by the Minister of Health;
b)    PublicHealth: Health promotion and disease prevention: immunization
against communicable diseases, environmental sanitation, food and water safety,
and enforcement of waste disposal regulations; growth monitoring and nutrition,
STD/HIV prevention, chronic disease prevention, prevention of drug and alcohol
abuse and road safety promotion; disease surveillance and notification. The new



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Public Health Unit would be formed out of the existing Directorate of Hygiene
and Epidemiology, with input of current Directorate of Public Health for Urban
Tirana, the Directorate of Public Health for Rural Tirana, and the Directorate of
Stomatology;
c)    prima=y Health Care: Registration and supervision of the service delivery
activities of GPs, nurses and midwives in primary health centers, individual
practices and emergency services. This Unit would be developed partly from the
existing Directorates of Public Health for Urban and Rural Tirana;
d)    isitalvices: Establishment of guidelines for hospital capacity
relative to the population, in-patient and out-patient facilities, referrals from
primary health centers and emergency services; specification of the relationships
between secondary-level functions for the Region and tertiary-level functions of
the CHU (in collaboration with the CHU management). This Unit would be
developed out of existing Hospital management staff.
3.    The Head of each Unit would have, as a minimum qualification, at least one year
of relevant experience in a related field. Professional training requirements:
a)    For the Planning and Evaluation Unit and the Public Health Unit: a
Master's degree in Health Planning/Financing or Public Health.
b)    For the Primary Health Care Unit and the Hospital Services Unit: a doctor
with a Master's degree in Health Planning/Financing/Management or Public
Health, preferably with training in General Practice in the case of Primary Health
Care, and specialist training in the case of Hospital Services Unit.
4.    Management Board
A Management Board would be established to ensure that the development of the
Tirana Regional Health System is consistent with the national health strategy and
financial resources. The Board would have the following responsibilities:
a)    Review, amend and approve, as appropriate, the three-year rolling
investment plan and strategic plans and the annual budgets of the TRHA,
particularly major budgetary plans, institutional development and changes in
personnel numbers;
b)   Identify legislative and regulatory requirements to ensure effectiveness of
the TRHA, and present these to relevant level of authority: MOH, Government,
Parliament.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
5.    The Management Board would consist of the followirng mnembers:
- The Minister of Health (who would also serve as the Chairperson of the Board);
- The Director of the Health Insurance Institute (who would also serve as the
Deputy Chairperson);
- The Executive Director of the TRHA (who would also be the Secretary of the
Management Board);
- a representative of the Ministry of Finance;
- The Chairperson of the City Council (Urban Tirana), or representative;
- The Chairperson of the District Council (Rural Tnrana), or representative.
The Management Board would meet quarterly and/or on request from the Minister
of Health or the Executive Director of the TRHA.



REEUBLICQE ALBANIA
STAFF APPLISAT RET
ANNEXf 
Letter of Intention from Ministry of Healt



A=   3
Republic of A  ania
Minstry of Ht hh and F.nvirrnn:trntal Protcution
Mr. Carlos Elb
Resident Rep  entative
The World Ba
Tira Deern c   11. 1997
Dear Mr. Elb
Health System Recovery and Devcclopment Projqcl
I a  pi  ed to confirnm that the Minisiry of Hwulth aud Envirotuncal PFotcufiUU
has completed    ical consultations with the World  Bank's team fbr the above
mentinned Proj t We arm sulisf led thut the pwposcd Ploject addresses our srategic
problems aind  Il help us to achicve the goals orour hcWlth policy. Accordingjy. we ar
pre-pared to prced to formnl Ncgotiations as :mxw u. possible. prhaps during dte muonth
of January or F bruaryl998. We acknowlkcd thc .s\iwtas orwupportf rour heth
policy und the   poed Project by the nusjor bilatar4 und mutilateral agenies during a
mneeting in Ti   on DcEcmber ;, 1997. Wut rurnt:hcd this stag: of aVreemtent on thd
sitntegic directi n of our work witha the assi.stanc of awdlscr ororganizations. Iie
r0evunt back' und docurmnts include Ih. 1ellowing.:
a)    Health are Reform in jUbania. Rclkaround tocument 1: Situation Analysis:
Background   um uint 2: Policy Optiurs Appraisdi. MThs wvs produced with the
amistance otth World Hoald. Orga izution in April 199.(
b)    Primnry tIealhh Care Policy. This wus prcidutvld by our Ministry witl the. support
of tde 1U-PMIA I itn 199.
c)    Master Ian for Tirana llniversity Hlospitlt. Ihis was produced with the support
of APHP.
In addi n to the aboive, we have benefltedl cnomnusly from eollaboration with
the World B    (through the first health project ). l.-Phare, tlhe Govrunient or
Gamny, itay Gtece, the Ncthcriands, Switzcrlazad inld the Unitcd Kingdoum, USAID,
UNICEF UNF A and 'W%O. On the basis f uall the prcvious work, we have identified
the following k y issues and stratceic solutions-
(a1)   A poten al breakdown or basic clinical and public health scrvi;tcs, due tv
shortages of p    accuticals. supplies and equipmenl . This will te addri.ssed through



short-term relic   d rtpplios, while dqicv:lopinj *J%quaat; sta c1lailwi:t:s t- eitzurc an
effective and a  rdalblc prnvis;ju r o wl1.m bunik icudLll inputs Wn a sust inallbJe baSIs;
(b)    Weak pl nine and rn:an.Acamnt capacity. This which will be uddresscd tllwuuft
the implementat nofa rvvised Policy anid Cvcvrnasci F ianuwork. botCh uL the nationaL
level and the su  national I:vol. beginning ii tilc unra of Tirana.
(e)    Low lv  of resoumces asid ina&kquutc finauicing winJ pay 'unit mecluiuisms. TIlL.s
will b-o addresse through a rcviscdr financin, and jlprvidur paymenlt systen. We will
hu;Wld upon the i tial succCfses of the Hctltli In:mrancc lmutitutc. We will also condclct
feasibility studi  for contmtcti  spiccinlibt out-pa;tivil  tid in-paticit scrvices in
hospitals. as wel as general wervices such us catering and laundtry. with thc ob,ective ora
gpradtml shift to   roance-bu*sed allocution of  'ources.
(d)    A stnrct   mismatch butween bahlth servicos privided anid popultsit:t nd-.
This will be add  ssed through increascd empluxKis on primary hleulth care, cssential
hospital rviee  major puhbic health scrviccs. Ihis will include invcstments In
equipment. trttic  li=ation and phased upgrading; of 1builtlings as neceb.ry. as well as
trining to ipr   e the skllls of our doctors. nurswc nnef o-thcr pvrtonncl.
My Minitry is prepared to proceed with tlie proposcJ Prjccal. wc: look 1brwavmd
to your respon3
Yours sin-C:Crely.
r.ec     ot
iMinister of Flenat  1n tnn:   'it
Republi    l



RP RLIC OF ALBANIA
B,-ATH SYSTEMW RE-CO)VERY ANr) QEFLP1MT PROJFtrT
STAFF APPRAISAL RPEQR
ANNEX 4
NMinistry of Health and Environmental Protection: Organizational Chart



Organigram of the Ministry of the Health and Environment
Council of
{  Minister !                                                              the Ministers
Cabinet                                               yummittee                                       Adminiall"e
ofp Ebvironment                     _      .       Council forthe
_F_  : Protiic n .                              Health Insurance
Directorate b   ODirectoa  Direct     Dit          Directorat    Directr i    Directorate        Direcitorae o    |institute bo    Inw=rnce
_3z;;!  S;_oof  of   ofPonnel,         or       ofHNIth      fAIr'!Wdir      O Protction     lmplemahtaton     Pubic            Inetute
-   -      |     ~~~~Hospitals  Phamncy   OrgnIzaton  -IEconomy      S Waitc       and Wast        fIeNtr         of roets nd        Health|
Organization    Economy                   Nsh"~~~~~Ecoom~
_|  fi- 5 d HosplSl d fi. d ||d|Se d il
_I,,a  mw .,4Z11 BbodThdon 11      |l~~~~I. sectord or l edr 
°'-I~~~~~~~~~~~~ew EEt
_ s _     1~~~~w  Twtb                     NSwr         H.fco
-~~~~~Cf
-   -~~~~~~~~~~~sco



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 5
Economic Analysis



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                         Annex 5, Page I
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 5: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
A. 1.  The proposed Project combines multiple interventions to solve a number of existing and
imminent problems in the health sector. Specifically, these are:
*   a potential breakdown of basic clinical and public health services, to be addressed
through short-term relief and supplies, while developing adequate mechanisms to ensure
an effective and affordable provision of these basic health inputs on a sustainable basis;
*   weak governance, planning and management capacity, to be addressed by implementing
a revised Policy and Governance Framework, both at the national and regional levels;
*   inadequate resources and reimbursement mechanisms, to be addressed through a revised
financing and provider payment regime, in the context of the new macro-economic
conditions resulting from the recent crisis; and
*   a structural mismatch between health services provided and population health needs, to
be addressed through immediate improvement of basic services and by restructuring and
upgrading the health care delivery system.
A.2.   The Project is designed to fulfill pre-conditions for sustained improvements in health services
and long-run health status. This Annex presents the economic rationale for the Project, focusing on
the potential impact of proposed interventions. It is based on guidelines provided by the Bank's
Human Development Department (HDD)1 and addresses the following issues: 1) linkages to
Economic and Sector Work (section B); 2) analysis of alternatives (section C); 3) assessment of
financial and fiscal impact (section D); 4) analysis of cost-effectiveness (section E); 5) risk analysis
(section F); 6) analysis of institutional capacity (section G); 7) analysis of poverty alleviation impact
(Section H); 8) analysis of environmental impact; 9) performance criteria for monitoring and
evaluation (section 1); and 10) overall coherence of analysis (section K). Quantitative estimates are
used where available and appropriate. Elsewhere, emphasis is placed on basic principles and their
relevance to the needs of Albania and the proposed interventions.
B. Linkages to Economic and Sector Work
B. 1.  Overview. The proposed Project is consistent with and guided by the Sector Recovery and
Development Strategy of the Government. The sector development strategy stresses the concurrent
development of (a) effective governance, policy formulation and management capacity, as well as
(b) upgrades of the service delivery infrastructure to meet the needs of the population. Each of
these is necessary and neither is sufficient by itself. The strategy was formulated through a careful
and deliberative process involving major stakeholders in Albania's health sector, in consultation
with foreign partners.
B.2.   Specific Studies. The Project is grounded in a body of knowledge accumulated by a number
of organizations working in Albania over the past five years. In addition, the Bank's study of the
Social Challenges of Transition provided a valuable insight into the challenge of health sector
development in the Region . For the last four years, and with support of the donor community, the
IPreker, A., Brenzel L., Ratta, A. Economic Analysis in the Population. Health and Nutrition Sectors: A
Conceptual Framework and Portfolio Review. Working Draft. September 26, 1996.
2 Goldstein, E., Preker, A., Adeyi, O., Chellaraj, G. Trends In Health Status. Services and Finance: The
Transition In Central And Eastern Europe. World Bank Technical Paper Number 241, 1996.



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                           Annex 5, Page 2
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MOH has been developing the elements of an overall policy framework. Several policy and plaininiig
documents have been drafted that cover overall health care reform, the development of Primary
Health Care, the country's hospital strategy and master plans for the rehabilitation and development
of Tirana University Hospital and two regional hospitals in Shkodra and Vlora3.
C. Analysis Of Alternatives
C. l.   Overview: Overall, the alternatives to the proposed design of the project include the
cessation of IDA's support for the health sector in Albania, a limitation of IDA support to noln-
lending services only, and alternative interventions as part of an IDA-funded project. A cessation of
IDA support would have resulted in a decline in badly needed foreign aid and reduced the seriousness
with which other major development agencies and NGOs regard the Albanian health sector. During
project design and preparation, alternative interventions were examined with a view to making the
most sensible professional judgment in a very needy and resource-poor setting. The choices made
were influenced by the current status of Albania's health sector (see Section A above), the Project
budget constraint, the political feasibility and local implementation capacity. The main alternatives
considered are outlined and reasons for their rejection explained.
C.3. National Capacity Building
a) No IDA supportforfurther reform (status quo). This would result in delayed or stalled reforn
and lead to deterioration of health services and health status in Albania. Events in the latter stages of
project preparation demonstrated the capacity of IDA to build a coalition in support of needed system
reforms. In December 1997, following a series of consultations, major international agencies pledged
their support for the Government's sector development strategy.
b) Centralization in the MOH of decision making on health financing, service delivery and public
health: This option had the attraction of acceptance with the medical lobby. However, the Project
sought to address systemic reform, which required concentrating MOH functiolis on policies,
regulations and setting of standards, while delegating the management of sector finances to the Health
Insurance Institute, the planning and supervision of public health interventionis to the Institute of
Public Health, and the management of health services to the regional/district levels.
c) Immediate coverage of all health services by the Health Insurance Institute: This would appear
to have the attraction of comprehensive risk pooling, but is unrealistic in resource-poor Albania and
carries major risks. One is that the income level is not sufficient to support, in the short term, the
required premiums for a comprehensive health insurance system covering hospital services. A rush to
include hospital among those covered by the HII would result in a cost explosion. In the face of
political pressure from clinicians, without the benefit of capable managers, it could also result in
uncritical acceptance of inappropriate provider reimbursement systems (for example the premature
adoption of Diagnosis Related Groups -- DRGs -- for which Albania lacks the necessary database).
IHealth Care Reform in Albania. Background document 1: Situation Analysis; Background document 2: Policy
Options Appraisal. Ministry of Health and Environment Protection - WHO/EURO. April 1996.
Primary Health Care Policy. Ministry of Health and Environment Protection. 1995
Hospital Policy In Albania. 1996-2001. Ministry of Health and Environment Protection - Assistance Publique
Hopitaux de Paris (APHP). July 1996.
Master Plan for Tirana University Hospital. Ministry of Health and Environment Protection - Assistance
Publique Hopitaux de Paris (APHP). 1996.



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                         Annex 5, Page 3
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Given these considerations, it was judged appropriate to maintain the step-by-step approach taken so
far, with continued technical assistance from the United Kingdom Know How Fund.
C. 4. Governance And Management Of Health System In Tirana Region.
a)    No IDA supportforfurther reform (status quo). This would result in an ineffective
investment in civil works and equipment, without resolving a major constraint on productivity: the
over-centralized and inappropriate management structure, as well as a weak management capacity in
the Region of Tirana. Since decentralization involves a real or perceived loss of power by the central
MOH, the "no decentralization" approach had the attraction of being politically easy. However, it
would amount to doing more of what does not work, with the consequence of continued structural
inefficiencies, poor planning and resource allocation.
b)    Establishment of a "Regional Level MOH" in the image of the national MOH. In principle,
this would result in a structure with which Albanians were more familiar. It would therefore
engender less anxiety and perhaps less resistance to change. However, the Regional Health System
requires a managerial focus, as distinct from the bureaucratic focus of the current central MOH.
Consequently, its design and proposed staffing were based on the duties to be performed, rather than
on historical precedents. The trial of a Regional Health Authority in Tirana would provide lessons in
what works and what does not, for reasonable adaptation in other regions of the country.
C. 5. Upgrading of Tirana Regional Health System.
a)    No IDA support for upgrading the Tirana Regional Health System. No donor is ready on its
own to finance the required inputs and restructuring. Excluding salaries, personal health services
accounted for an estimated 1.32% of Albania's GDP in 1994. IDA's willingness to support the
reforms strengthened Government resolve to develop a strategic plan and co-financiers' willingness
to fund aspects of the Regional Health System The implementation plan would be based on estimated
health service needs and estimated health system revenues. The first phase would focus on
restructuring and rehabilitation of core facilities in the health centers, polyclinics and the Tirana
Hospital (general services, civil works and equipment for laboratory and diagnostic equipment,
accidents and emergencies.
b)    Purchase of equipment and uncritical rehabilitation of buildings, unconstrained by
consideration of health needs and prospects for sustainability. This would have resulted in
unsustainable additional recurrent cost burdens, and poor maintenance of equipment. Existing
inadequacies in the system would have worsened. This would have resulted in: (i) continued
structural inefficiencies; (ii) persistence of clinical services of poor quality; (iii) sub-optimal
utilization of existing stock of buildings, equipment and personnel; and (iv) failure to pre-empt an
epidemic of chronic, non-communicable diseases.
D. Assessment Of Financial And Fiscal Impact
D. 1.  It is estimated that most of the productivity gains would come from improvements in
organization and management. The Project would yield efficiency gains from a restructured system
at the National level and decentralization to the Regional (Tirana) levels. Given the extremely
unwieldy state of the current bureaucracy, the potential for improvements is large and an estimated
efficiency gain of 10% is reasonable. If the health sector expenditure (including foreign aid) remains



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                         Annex 5, Page 4
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
at 5% of GDP, the Project could result in a stream of productivity gains equivalent to 0.5% of GDP
per year in the medium term.
D.2.   The project is consistent with and supports the Bank's proposed economic strategy for
Albania, i.e., the restoration of fiscal balance and an emphasis on medium-term sustainability and
national capacity building.
E. Analysis of Cost-Effectiveness
E. I.   What follows is not really about cost-effectiveness, but more on the benefits of the Project.
The Project would support clinical and public health interventions of known cost-effectiveness.
However, while improvements in health status constitute a major rationale for health system
development, it is not realistic to expect significant and attributable improvements in aggregate health
status during the life-span of a project focusing on system reforms and service delivery. Two
considerations are central to the expected benefits from this component in the medium- to long-term:
(a) As a weak, under-equipped system with poor infrastructure, the health sector requires
significant investments to meet the minimum criteria for a modern health care delivery
system, even at Albania's level of income. For example, much of the stock of medical
equipment is obsolete and surgical procedures are sometimes performed with rusted
equipment. Starting from this low base, the potential for improvement is enormous.
(b) Once the structures are upgraded, and the management and clinical skills meet current
standards of effectiveness, a platform would be established from which improvements in
organization, accessibility, population coverage, service utilization and quality of care
would result in significantly better health outcomes in the medium term. For example, a
poorly trained physician, with duties limited to minor clinical procedures like incision
and drainage of abscesses, is officially described as a "microsurgeon", and the use of
modern clinical protocols for diagnosis and treatment is almost non-existent. Again,
starting from this low base of technical skills, the potential for improvements is large.
E.2.   The costs associated with poor quality would be reduced by doing things right the first time,
thus avoiding the costs of needless complications and deaths. This conclusion is derived in part from
a conceptual framework of quality assurance management methods, whereby quality can be measured
on three levels: structure, process and outcome. Structure assesses the quality of health care through
the setting in which care takes place. This includes the adequacy of facilities and equipment,
administrative processes and the qualifications of medical staff. The assumption is that without
required inputs, good health care will not be achievable. Process considers not only that equipment
exists, but also whether what is currently thought to be proper health care is applied, including
clinical history, physical examination, diagnostic tests, justification of diagnosis and therapy. The
assumption is that without proper procedures, good health outcomes will not be achievable.
Outcome considers whether a change in a person's current and future health status can be attributed to
antecedent health care.
E.3.   Given the multiple determinants of aggregate health status, Project elements are necessary for
improved outcomes in the medium term, but are not sufficient by themselves. Sustained
improvements in household and individual income (or, at least, no significant decreases in real
income) are required for the Project activities to achieve medium-term improvements in aggregate
health status. Assuming that the Project achieved the goals of upgrading medical equipment and
institutionalizing the use of clinical protocols, clinical services in hospitals, polyclinics and health



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                           Annex 5, Page S
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
centers would increase by about 20% by the end of the Project. This is based oln contemporary
literature on the benefits of improvements in the quality of care.4 These and the planned
improvements in management and governance structures, public health services could result in a
modest 10% improvement in aggregate health status in Tirana Region by the end of the Project.
F. Risk Analysis
There are three major sets of risks to the Project. The first is that political and social
upheavals could preclude the stability needed for effective implementation and institutional
development. 'I[his risk will be mitigated by: (a) the benefits to mzajor stakeholders of cooperation in
all aspects of the recovery program, and (b) the emphasis on improving comniiiity owinershiip of. and
involvement in. health service planning, organization and managemiient. Specifically, Local Il-ealth
Advisory Committees will be established at the commune level, witlh inputs into the local planninig of
health service delivery. Health Advisory Coummittees will be established at the lRegional/District
Levels, to work with District Health Management 'Ieams and the proposed TI"iranaa Regionial Hlealth
Authority in health planninig, service delivery and management. ancl to improve responsiveness of the
healtih sector to local problemns. Representatives of'the NGO Forum vwill be encouraged to participate
as members of the management teams for districts and hospitals. Further details are shown in the
H-lealth Sector Strategy Matrix (Annex 6, Section C). The second risk is that weak national capacity
for implementation could hinder effective implementation. This risk would be mitigated by
specifying responsibilities for implementation prior to project effectiveness and by appropriate use of
external technical assistance. Prior agreement with the Government on the need for technical
assistance for the Project Coordination Unit has been emphasized. Finally, fiscal instability could
make it difficult for the Government to meet its counterpart financing commitments under the Project
and to operate services effectively beyond the initial phase. This risk would be mitigated by limiting
required counterpart funds to the most essential recurrent expenditures. Given the weaknesses of the
Albanian economy and its recent history of political and social strife, expectations of local
implementation capacity, counterpart funds and speed of implementation must remain realistic and
modest.
G. Analysis of institutional capacity
G. 1.  At the national and regional/district levels, definitions of tasks are insufficiently specified
and/or overlapping, while human resources capacities, though improving, still remain minimal.
Responsibilities for planning, managing and implementation are not clearly delineated. This is
particularly acute for the region of Tirana (covering two distinct administrative structures, the City
and a rural district) which manages separate funds. In addition, other services are directly managed
by the central MOH. At all levels of health facilities, information systems and modern resources
management methods are still embryonic.
G.2.   National capacity building for health system reforn would support improvements in the
economic efficiency of the health sector by strengthening the institutions responsible for governance
and regulation, the MOH, the HII and the IPH. Efficiency gains in the sector are contingent upon the
existence of accountability, clarity of managerial and administrative roles, and appropriate incentive
4 See Adeyi, O., Morrow, R. "Essential Obstetric Care: Assessment and Determinants of Quality". Social
Science and Medicine. 45 (11). 1997.



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                        Annex 5, Page 6
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
structures. Improvements in institutional capacity and governance would enhance the sustainability
of the overall reform strategy and facilitate improvements in financing and delivery mechanisms.
G.3.  Improvements in the governance and management of health system in Tirana would result in
the actual decentralization of management and regulation of the health system to the most populated
region of the country, where the full range of health services (although at a low quality level) exist
and where the need for restructuring is the most acute. To that extent, the benefits could be the most
visible in the quickest time. Rational decentralization will have a dual effect, enhancing systemic
efficiency and cost-effectiveness, while improving accessibility of the health system to the
population.
H. Poverty Alleviation Impact
According to the report "Albania: Growing Our Of Poverty (# 15698, 1996), although the
orders of magnitude were imprecise, the evidence indicated that poverty was more pervasive among
the rural population than the urban population, but, generally, poverty in the rural areas was less
severe than in towns. The Poverty Analysis recommended an increased emphasis on interventions to
combat the most common illnesses at the primary health care level, including: treatment of acute
respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases, reproductive health problems. The Project would address
these problems through the focus on improved access and service delivery at the primary and
secondary levels of care, covering both urban Tirana and the surrounding rural districts. It would help
to alleviate the burden of preventable illnesses and premature deaths as well as the associated loss of
production and income.
I. Environmental Impact
This is a Category C Project: "No appreciable environmental impact." Upgrading of
unsanitary hospital buildings would contribute to improved environmental safety, as would the
replacement of old equipment -- radiology and laboratory -- that present health risks. Sanitary
procedures would be introduced for dealing with waste management.
J. Performance criteria for monitoring and evaluation
This is presented in detail in Section IV of the Project Implementation Plan of the Staff
Appraisal Report.
K. Overall Coherence Of Analysis
The Government's strategy stresses the concurrent development of (a) effective governance,
policy formulation and management capacity, as well as (b) upgrades of the service delivery
infrastructure to meet the needs of the population. Through a carefully designed combination of
interventions, the proposed Project would fulfill requirements for achieving these objectives. All
the issues presented above are recognized by the Government and the proposed interventions are
part of the Government's pre-crisis sector strategy which has now been supplemented by an
Emergency Aid Strategy and Program.



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 6
Health Sector Strategy Note



Annex 6
Republic of Albania: Health Sector Strategy Note.
Introduction
1.    This annex presents the strategy to be supported by the proposed Health System Recovery and
Development Project. During Negotiations in March, 1998, the Government re-confirmed its
commitment to this strategy. It is being further elaborated by the Government and will be formally
launched in the third quarter of 1998. This document (Annex 6) is organized as follows. After this
introduction, the historical context of the health sector strategy is presented. This is followed by an
examination of the major issues in the health sector and the development objectives to be pursued. For
each development objective, the accompanying matrix provides details of strategic choices, progress
indicators, Bank instruments (e.g. lending or non-lending), partner agencies, assumptions and risks.
Context: History And The Broader Health Sector Reform Program..
2.     The development of this strategy dates back to 1992, when IDA started working with the
Government of Albania (GOA). Details of the initial strategy are contailled in the Report Number
10362-ALB, "Albania: Health Sector Reform During The Transition", dated March 23, 1992. This
document was based upon several technical reports on specific aspects of the health sector. The strategy
was reviewed and updated on the basis of experiences gained during the ongoing Health Services
Rehabilitation Project (First Health Project), and consultations with partner agencies within and outside
Albania. In the accompanying matrix, issues and choices that have remained the same since 1992 are
marked "(a)". Those with some modifications are marked "(b)". and those that are much different from
the 1992 scenario are marked "(c)".
3.     The following are major technical reports that contributed to the healtlh sector strategy (copies
are available in project files):
Health Care Reform in Albania. Background document 1: Situation Analysis; Background
document 2: Policy Options Appraisal. Ministry of Health and Environment Protection -
WHO/EURO. April 1996.
Primary Health Care Policy. Ministry of Health and Environmenit Protection. 1995
1996-2001 Hospital Policy In Albania. Ministry of Health and Environimenit Protection - Assistance
Publique Hopitaux de Paris (APHP). July 1996.
Master Plan for Tirana University Hospital. Ministry of Health and Environimenit Protection -
Assistance Publique Hopitaux de Paris (APHP). 1996.
Albania: Growing Out of Poverty. World Bank. Report Number 15698. The World Bank. August,
1996.
Health. Nutrition and Population Sector Strategy. Human Development Network, World Bank.
1997.
European Health Care Reforms. World Health Organiization. 1997.
Trends in Health Status. Services and Finance: The Transition In Central and Eastern Europe. Vols.
I & 11. World Bank, 1996.



4.     The proposed project is a part of a broader Health System Recovery and Development Program,
which was prepared in cooperation with the Government, Albaniani professionals and health sector
workers, and to which the international community pledged support at the Albania Donors' Conference
in October 1997. The following table shows the estimated costs of the broader program, the proposed
project, and sources of funds.
Program and Project Costs.
Description                             Costs (US$ '000)
Total Program cost (i)                          37,166.1
Of which Project cost (ii)                        28,000
IDA (iii)                                         17,000
Government of Albania (iv)                         2,400
Other financiers                                   8,600
Project financing gap = (ii)-(iii)-(iv)
Major Issues And Development Objectives
5.     The main issues and development objectives are sub-divided into four categories.
a) Weak capacity for planning and management. Routine, day-to-day decisions are still over-
centralized in the central MOH. Responsibilites and tasks are poorly defined at the national and
regional/district level, and management skills are weakly developed at all levels of the health care
system. In response to this, the development objective is to restructure the health system, with an
emphasis on improved capacity for policy making and management at the appropriate level. Health
service management will be professionalized, a departure from the currenit situation whereby
physicians with no management training and/or strong skills are in positiolns of management.
Information systems will be developed to support these functionis. Government will continiue the
trend toward greater private sector involvement in health service delivery.
b) Inadequate resources andproviderpaymentsystems. Albania's economy remains weak. Mainly as
a result of this, resources are inadequate to provide essential health services for the entire population.
In addition to this, the health system suffers from inefficiencies in resource utilization. The health
sector strategy emphasizes the development of a larger and more predictable revenue base for healti
services, to the extent that is feasible in Albania's weak economy and without increasing the tax
burden. Incentives will be introduced to increase productivity and the quality of care. Private sector
involvement will be encouraged, including the "hotel functions" of hospitals, i.e., cleaning, catering,
laundry and transportation.
c) Poorfit between health services and major health problems. Health services are concenitrated in
large institutions -- hospitals, whereas a majority of health problems could be effectively managed in
health centers and out-patient polyclinics. The quality of health services is poor, due to a



combination of obsolete or lack of basic equipment, and poorly trained staff using inappropriate
techniques. Although Albania faces a burden of non-communicable diseases, public health
interventions -- health promotion and disease control -- are weak. There is little community
ownership of, and participation in, health service planninig, organizationi and management. The
capacity for local leadership and action is limited, particularly in the more technlically demandilig
areas of hospital administration and health system managemenit. In response to these problems, the
strategy emphasizes the development of a network of primary health centers, polyclinics and
streamlined hospitals. The skills of doctors, nurses and para-mnedical staff will be upgraded and
modern clinical protocols will be introduced to ensure improvements in the quality of care.
Incentives will be introduced and/or strengthened to encourage good clinical practices and patient
care. An aggressive program of non-communicable disease program will be developed on the basis
of epidemiological, social and behavioral evidence. Effective partnershiips will be established and/or
strengthened with Non-Governmental Organizations and elected representatives of the population.
d) A potential breakdown of basic clinical and public health services: These services were further
weakened by the disturbances of 1997. There are shortages of consumables and supplies for runining
clinical and public health laboratories, with risks of epidemics and needless complications of simple
illnesses. In response to these problems, the clinical and public healthi laboratories will be restored to
a functional status. Consumables and supplies will be provided to ensure that services are delivered
as needed.



Republic of Albania: Health Sector Strategy Matrix.
A: DEVELOP PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT CAPACITY.
Major Issues (a)               Development         Strategic Chtoices (b)   Progress  Bank          Othier partners    Assumptions and Risks (b)
Objectives (a)                           Indicators   Instruments  (b)
(b)          (b)
Over-centralization of day-to-day   Restructure health    - Reduce and focus    -MOH  Lending:      - Govt. of Italy  - GOA maintains a
decision making.               system to enhance    scope of work of     produces 3-                (technical        commitment to restructure
policy making and    MOH on policy       year rolling   HSRP        assistance to the   the health sector.
Poorly defined responsibilities  effective         making, standard      plans with   (Health I),   Institute of Public
and tasks at the national and  management.         setting, regulation and  specific  ongoing.      Health)           - GOA and IDA are willing
regional/district levels.                          supervision.          objectives,                                 to experiment with needed
by end of    HSRDP        - Govt. of        changes and to learn in the
Limited capacity for policy                        - Strengthen capacity   CY99.      (Health 11)   Switzerland.      context of Albania.
fornulation and strategic                          and maintain semi-                 FY98.
planning.                                          autonomous status of                             - U.K. Know
the Health Insurance                            How Fund
Poor management skills at all                      Institute.                                       (technical
levels.                                                                                             assistance to the
- Improve technical    - IPH                    Health Insurance
and operational      develops                   Institute).
capacities of the    National
Institute of Public  Policy For                 - USAID, AIHA
Health.              Control of                 (technical
Non-                      assistance to the
- Decentralize       communicab                 MOH).
responsibilities for  le Diseases
organization,        and Injuries               - Government of
planning and         by end                     the Netherlands
management of health  CY99.                     (potential,
services to the                                 technical
regional level.                                 assistance for
capacity building
- Develop                                       at the national
management skills at                            and regional
all levels, consistent   -Tirana                levels,
Regional                  pharmaceutical



2
with responsibilities.   Health                  reforms, hospital
Authority                  management and
established                quality
&                          assurance).
functioning                reform).
according to
its TORs.
Management systems and skills -   - Professionalize  - Restructure          - Trained     Lending:      - Government of   - Doctors and other health
personnel, planning, budgeting,    health services   management of health  managers in                 the Netherlands    professionals support a
monitoring and evaluation - are    management.       services, using        charge of     HSRP,         (potential,       slimmer and better equipped
weak and scarce.                                      incentives to increase   regional   ongoing.      technical          network of hospitals,
- Develop           productivity.          health                      assistance for    polyclinics and health
information systems                        authorities    HSRDP        capacity building   centers.
suitable for an                            by end        (Health 11)   at the national
outcome-based                              CYOO and      FY98.         and regional
management                                 regional                   levels,
system.                                    hospitals by   Non-         pharmaceutical
- Start with primary    end CYO 1.   lending:     reform, hospital
- Encourage gradual  care services,                                    management and
private sector      pharmacies, dental     - Private     Hospital      quality
involvement in      services.              sector        Sector Mgt.  assurance).
health service                             involved in   Study.        reform).
delivery.                                  "hotel"       FY99.
services of                - U.K. Know
hospitals, on              Ilow Fund
a pilot basis,             (teclhnical
by end                     assistance to the
CYOO.                      Health Insurance
Institute).



3
B: INCREASE RESOURCES AND IMPROVE PROVIDER PAYMENT SYSTEMS
Major Issues (a)                 Development           Strategic           Progress       Bank          Otlher partners    Assumptions anid Risks (a)
Objectives(a)        Clhoices(a)         Indicators    Instruments   (a)
(a)           (a)
Resources are inadequate to cover   Develop a larger and   Expand contribution  - Health  Lending:      - U.K. Know       - Govt. maintains semi-
essential health services.       more predictable      base, increase      Insurance                    How Fund          autonomous status of Health
revenue base for     premiums in line     Institute     HSRP           (technical       Insurance Institute.
health services.     with benefits.      remains        (Health 1),    assistance to the
financially   ongoing.      Health Insurance  - A weak economy constrains the
Tighten criteria for   solvent and               Institute).      revenue base of HII and the rate
exemption from      semi-         HSRDP                           at which it can expand its
contributions.      autonomous.  (Health 11)                      coverage beyond primary care.
FY98.
Protect budgetary   - Heatlh
allocations to      Insurance     PER
health.             Institute     FY99/00
covers
Maximize quantity   priamry
and efficiency of   health care
donor assistance;   by the end of
focus on            CY02.
sustainability.
Use of resources is inefficient  Establish incentives    - Develop capacity   -Output/    HSRDP         - U.K. Know       - Major stakeholders are
to increase          of Health Insurance  outcome-      (Health 11)    How Fund          involved in the process.
prodtictivity.       Institute to contract   based      FY98.          (technical
(purchase) services   incentives                 assistance to the   - Potential losers (i.e. the workers
at the primary and    introduced at  Non-lending:  Health Insurance  who might be laid off, doctors
hospital levels.    the hospital                 Institute).       who may lose administrative
Encourage gradual                         level by end   Hospital                       powers) do not block reform.
private sector       - Shift from salary-   CYOO.       Sector Mgt.
involvement in health  based to a mix of                Study. FY99                     -GOA and partners develop an
service delivery.    salary, capitation   - Slelective                                  effective approach to ensure
and fee-for services;  "hotel"                                    success of necessary but
avoid cost          services are                                   unpopular measures.
out-sourced



4
explosion,             on a pilot
basis by end
- Consider out-        CYOO.
sourcing of laundry
and catering
services.
I                                  I                        I                       I               I                I_I.



D
C: IMPROVE THE FIT BETWEEN HEALTH SERVICES AND HEALTH PROBLEMS.
Major Issues (b)              Development         Strategic Clhoices  Progress     Bank            Otlher partners (b)      Assumptions and
Objectives (b)     (b)                Indicators    Instruments                              Risks (b)
(b)          (b)
Services are excessively      Develop a           - Streamline       % increasein  Lending:        - Assistance Publique    - GOA maintains
concentrated in large         streamlined service  health service    populaiton                    Hopitaux de Paris        commitment to
institutions.                 delivery system.    pyramid: develop   with access   HSRP (Health  (APHP). Technical          restructure health
a network of      to primary    1), ongoing.    Assistance for hospital   sector.
regional hospitals,  health care.   Covers       system plan.
polyclinics and                  Shkodra in the                          - Donors fulfill
health centers.   % increase    North, Vlora    - Govt. of Italy         pledges.
in service   in the south.    (polyclinics and health
utilization                   centers in Tirana
rates.        HSRDP           Region).
(Health II)
Selected     FY98. Would   - Govt. of Greece.
hospital      cover Tirana
facilites,   Region.         -OPEC/Islamic Bank
polycinics
and health    Non-lending:    - Govt. of Kuwait
centers
equipped as   Hospital        - EU-PHARE
planned.      Sector Mgt.
Study. FY99    - Govt. of Germany
Non-
communicab                    - Catholic Foundation
le disease
control
program
lauchced by
end of
CYOO.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ In ju ry_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



6
control
program
lauched by
the end of
CYOO
Health centers and polyclinics    - Reorient the mix    - Limit quantity,    % eligible  Lending:     - EU-PHARE.              -Training programs
are staffed with poorly trained    of skills in line  upgrade skills of   physicians                                           are done according to
"specialists".                 with the health      health personnel.   "converted"   HSRP (Health   - Govt. of Switzerland.   good technical
problems and                           to general    1), ongoing.                              criteria.
There is a shortage of trained  services delivered    - Convert poorly    practitioners               - USAID
primary care doctors and       at each level.      trained                            HSRDP                                    - Donors fulfill
nurses.                                             "specialists" to   % eligible    (Health 11)                               pledges.
- Increase the status  well trained    population    FY98
of primary care     general            covered by
through             practitioners.     general
professional and                       practitioners
financial           - Introduce
incentives.         specialization
program for
general
practitioners.
- Maintain
capitation system
for reimbursing
general
practitioners.
T he quality of health services is  - Improve quality    - IJpdate     % eligible     Lending:        Got of Italy.            - GOA and donors
poor.                          of care at the       diagnostic and     staff trained                                           address all major
primary, polyclinic  therapeutic       in the use of  HSRP (Health   Got of Netherlands         determinants of
and hospital levels   equipment in     modern         1), ongoing.    (potential).              quality: structures,
health facilities.    clinical   Covers                                    processes and
protocols.    Shkodra in the   UNICEF, WHO (e.g.        incentives.
- Adapt and                      North, Vlora    protocols for Integrated
institutionalize   % eligible    in the south.    Managemiienit of         - Client satisfaction
modern protocols   patients                                                with quality of care



7
for diagnosis and   benefiting   HSRDP           Childhood Illnesses).    is interpreted with
treatment.         from the use  (Health 11)                             caution.
of modern    FY98. Would   UNFPA (reproductive
- Improve          clinical     cover Tirana    health services).        Recongize that
provision,         protocols.    Region.                                 measurable
distribution and                                                         improvements in
use of             -Measurable  Non-lending:                             clinical outcomes
pharmaceuticals.   increase in    Hospital                               will take several
client        Sector Mgt.                             years -- and
- Gradually       satisfaction    Study. FY99                            sophisticated
introduce         with the                                               information systems.
outcome-based      quality of                                            Focus on fulfilling
remuneration,      care.                                                 the pre-conditions.
starting on an
experimental
basis.
Health promotion and disease    Realign health     Develop strategies  Non-         Lending:        WIhO (potential).       GOA and partners
prevention are under-          service priorities in  for control of non-  communicab                                       commit to public
developed.                    line with the        communicable      le disease     HSRDP           UNICEF                  health interventions
current and        diseases, injuries   control     (Health 11)                              as effective tools for
expected health    and accidents.     program        FY98.           Govt. of Italy.         reducing premature
problems.                             lauchced by                                            illnesses, deaths,
Improve           end of        Non-lending:                             disabilities and lost
operational        CYOO.         Non-                                    productivity.
capacity of the                  communicable
Institute of Public  Injury      disease control
Health,            control       study.
program       FY99/00
Strengthen         lauched by
epidemiological    the end of
surveillance.      CYOO.
Improve service
delivery for
control and
treatment of
vaccine-



8
preventable
diseases.
There is little community     Establish effective   Establish Local    Number of   Lending:      Health NGOs Forum       - A gradual approach
ownership of and participation   partnerships with    Health Advisory                                                   is adopted and
in health service planning,   NGOs and elected   Committees at the               HSRDP           Foreign NGOs.           expectations are kept
organization and management.  representatives of   commune level,                (Health II)                             modest.
the people.        with a say in                   FY98.           Individuals and elected
planning of                                    representatives of the  - A disticntion is
service delivery at                            communes.               made between tasks
Limited capacity for locally                    the health centers.                                                      suitable for direct
inspired initiatives, leadership                                                                                         community
and action.                                      Develop District                                                       involement in service
Health Advisory                                                        delivery (e.g.
Technical/management skills                      Committees to                                                           planning and
are very scarce at the                           work with District                                                      mobilization for
community level.                                 Health                                                                 immunization, pre-
Management                                                             natal care, family
Local authorities have failed in                 Teams in planning                                                       planning) and those
some cases to fulfill contractual                district health                                                         suitable for a
obligations to maintain                          services.                                                               comunity advisory
rehabilitated health centers, due                                                                                        role (e.g.
to resource constraints.                         Develop Regional                                                        management of
Health Advisory                                                        services in health
Committee,                                                             facilties like
starting with                                                          hospitals and
Tirana, to guide                                                       polyclilics).
planning and
organization.                                                          - IDA avoids the
temptation to do
Encourage                                                              things for which it
representation of                                                      does not the ground
the NGOs Forum                                                         presence in Albania.
on the District
Health Mangt.
Team and hospital
mangt. teams.



9
D: AVOID A BREAKDOWN OF BASIC CLINICAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES
Major Issues (C)                 Development          Strategic           Progress      Bank           Othier partners   Assumptions and Risks
Objectives(C)        Clhoices(C)         Indicators    Instruments  (C)                (C)
(C)           (C)
Civil disturbances ruptured some   Restore adequate   - Ensure adequate                 Lending:       NGOs             Donors fulfill pledges.
aspects of an already fragile   functioning of        supplies of                       HSRDP
system.                          essential health     pharmaceuticals                   (Health 11)   IUNICEF           GOA assumes
services.            and consumables.                  FY98.                           responsibility for
Shortages of pharmaceuticals,                                                                          WHO              sustaining these basic
laboratory reagents, spare parts                                                        Ongoing                         functions.
and consumables for running                                                             "supervisio"   ? ECHO
simple clinical and public health                                                       and policy
functions.                                                                               discussions.
Risks of epidemics of
communicable diseases if public
health functions remain weak.
Risk of increased loss of
productivity due to avoidable
illnesses, deaths and disabilities.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 28467
18'30'                         19,00,                          19'30'                         20'00.                                                        21'00'
IN,                                                                                         FED.    REP.                                    YUGOSLAVIA
IA                                                                                                         (SERBIA/                    EDONIA)
42'30'-
F.Y.R.            41'30'-
RES
MACEDONIA
41
L     NJE
0
RUS
FED.
BELARU
GERMANY I
POLAND
LUX.              -1
UKRAINE
MOLDC V,
ROMANIAVp
M.6FREI
BUL                                                                                                            GREECE
20' 30'                        21'00'
DECEMBER 1996



