Report No. PID6521
Project Name         Albania-Health System Recovery and Development Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Other Population Health and Nutrition
Project ID                       ALPE45312
Borrower                         Government of Albania/Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health/PIU
Deshmoret e Kombit Boulevard
Tirana, Albania
Tel:    355-42-27938
Fax:    355-42-27942
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           2/3/98
Projected Appraisal Date         2/15/97 - 2/2/97
Projected Board Date             April 23, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Objectives. The proposed Project is consistent with and guided
by the Sector Recovery and Development Strategy of the Government.
It is designed to support the health sector in addressing the pre-
crisis priorities, which remain valid, and to alleviate the needs
resulting from the disturbances, through targeted provision of
pharmaceuticals and supplies The Project would help develop
institutions and national capacity for an effective and sustainable
health care system. Its specific objectives are to: (i)
establish/strengthen sound institutional and human resource
capacities to ensure viability and efficiency of the health sector;
and (ii) support government efforts to reduce avoidable illnesses
and deaths by improving the accessibility, effectiveness and
efficiency of essential health services.
Description
2.      The Project would include the following four components:
a. National Capacity Building. This component would develop and
strengthen institutions and competencies required to implement the
sector development strategy. The strategy was developed over the
past three years by Albanians with international donor
collaboration, and endorsed by the MOH in letters to the Bank, in
December 1997. The target institutions are the MOH and the Health
Insurance Institute (HII).
b. Governance and Management of Health System in Tirana Region.
This component would support the establishment and functions of
institutions to undertake the decentralization of planning and
management to the regional level in Tirana, through assistance to



two entities: the Regional Health Management Team (RHMT) and its
Management Board.
c. Upgrading of Tirana Health Care Delivery System. This component
would support civil works, medical equipment, and supplies for a
network of one hospital, three polyclinics, 37 health centers;
technical assistance to improve the functional relationships among
the health services and facilities; technical assistance for the
adaptation and use of standard clinical protocols; and technical
assistance in support of selected public health interventions of
potentially high impact on health status.
d. Project Management. This component would provide support to
overall management of the Project, in the form of additional office
equipment, technical assistance and staff training for the existing
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the MOH.
Financing
3.      The estimated total cost of the Project is US$28.0 million
equivalent, including physical contingencies of 10 percent on civil
works and goods, and 5 percent on technical assistance and training.
Investment costs (US$26.6 million) covering civil works, medical
equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and training, constitute
95 percent of the total Project costs. Incremental recurrent costs
(US$1.5 million), including medical supplies, operation and
maintenance of equipment and vehicles, as well as other operating
costs, constitute 5 percent of the total Project cost. The proposed
US$17.0 million IDA Credit would finance about 60 percent of the
total project costs.
Implementation
4.      The Project would be implemented over a four year period by the
Ministry of Health in close coordination and collaboration with
related health authorities at the central and local levels. Overall
responsibility for implementation of the Project would rest with the
MOH, while the planned project activities would be managed and
implemented by the various national and regional institutions
concerned, including the proposed Tirana Health Authority, the
Health Insurance Institute (HII), Medical Faculty of University of
Tirana, municipalities, NGOs and other donor agencies.
Sustainability
The Project will build upon and expand the scope of successful
activities carried out under the on-going project. The Project
focuses primarily on the restructuring and improvement of existing
institutions and, as such, is not expected to lead to increased
recurrent budgetary outlays, besides the need to support operations
induced by the recent crisis. If anything, the consolidation of
institutions, related re-deployment of staff, and efficiency gains
resulting from better management would lead to a neutral budgetary
impact -compared to the pre-crisis situation- while improving the
relevance and effectiveness of services rendered to the population.
- 2 -



The Project will establish a basis for medium- to long-term
sustainability by supporting a rational approach to sector planning
and by professionalizing sector management in a decentralized structure
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
5.      Experience gained and lessons learned from the first Bank-
financed investment in the health sector demonstrate the critical
importance of context-specific and efficient implementation
arrangements, as well as the need for full Government commitment.
Project implementation and management capacities are given
particular importance in this Project, as shown by the emphasis
placed on staff training and support to management for all
activities, and the fact that the PCU would be entirely funded out
of the IDA Credit. Based on experience with the on-going project,
an important lesson learned is the need for intense and sustained
support to the PCU in the early stages of implementation. The PCU
would be supported by high quality technical assistance and by the
Bank's health sector team for Albania, based in Tirana, Budapest and
Washington.
Poverty Category
6.      Program of targeted interventions.
Environmental Aspects
7.      This is a Category C Project: "No appreciable environmental
impact." Upgrading of unsanitary hospital buildings would
contribute to improved environmental safety, as would the
replacement of old equipment -- radiology and laboratory -- that
present health risks. Sanitary procedures would be introduced for
dealing with waste management.
Program Objective Categories
8.      The project falls into the Program Objective Category: Poverty
Reduction and Human Resources Development (100%).
Contact Point            Olusoji Adeyi, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5835
Fax No.:                 (202) 477-1996
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 6, 1998.
- 3 -



