                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32718

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-30670)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$17 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA

                                                 FOR A

                  HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 24, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective June 22, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Albanian Lek
                                         1 Lek = US$ 0.009877
                                         US$ 1 = 101.245 Lek

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

HIV/AIDS  Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
GOA       Government of Albania
GP        General Practitioner
GPRS      Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
HII       Health Insurance Institute
HMIS      Health Management Information Systems
HR        Human Resources
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IPH       Institute of Public Health
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOH       Ministry of Health
MTR       Mid-term Review
NGO       Non-governmental Organizations
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PHC       Primary Health Care
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
RHA       Regional Health Authority
RHMT      Regional Health Management Team of the Tirana Regional Health Authority
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
TA        Technical Assistance
TRHA      Tirana Regional Health Authority
TTL       Task Team Leader
TUHC      Tirana Regional Hospital Center

                                Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                              Country Director:   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                              Sector Manager:     Armin Fidler
                            Task Team Leader:     Monika Huppi

                                           ALBANIA
           HEALTH SYSTEM RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P045312                                                  Project Name: Health Recovery
Team Leader: Monika Huppi                                            TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 24, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health Recovery                                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-30670
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (82%); Central government administration (18%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Injuries and non-communicable
                            diseases (S); Other communicable diseases (S); Population and
                            reproductive health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/14/1997                                     Effective: 09/07/1998                09/11/1998
      Appraisal: 03/03/1997                                        MTR: 08/30/2000                  05/29/2002
      Approval: 05/12/1998                                      Closing: 01/31/2003                 01/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Director:                Charles C. Griffin                             James Christopher Lovelace
Team Leader at ICR:             Monika Huppi                                   Olusoji Adeji
ICR Primary Author:             Dominic S. Haazen


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

These ratings are based on the 4-point scale which is mandated at this time. If the new 6-point scale had been
used, a number of the ratings would have been upgraded to Marginally Unsatisfactory, or Marginally Satisfactory.
Specific ratings for project components use the 6-point scale.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. The objectives and the design of the Albania Health System Recovery and Development Project
need to be assessed in the context of (i) the exceptional economic, political and institutional conditions
prevailing in Albania, and (ii) the process of health sector reform which was to be supported by both this
project and other interventions. Just after the Government initiated the preparation of this project in 1996,
the Albanian economy went into deep crisis, as a result of the collapse of a number of pyramid schemes,
and subsequent civil unrest. Health system infrastructure, already poor, had seriously deteriorated through
lack of maintenance, and in some districts was damaged through looting and vandalism as a result of the
civil unrest. Increases in trauma due to physical assault and firearms taxed an already overburdened
system. Health status indicators were mixed, with favorable life expectancy, but much worse infant and
maternal mortality, compared to other countries in the region.

The development objective of the project was to help develop institutions and national capacity for an
effective and sustainable health care system. Its specific objectives were to: (i) establish/strengthen
institutional and human resource capacities for an effective and sustainable health sector; and (ii) improve
the accessibility, quality and efficiency of health services.

These objectives were highly consistent with the previous Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, July 1998),
which emphasized governance and institution building and promoting human development. They were also
very relevant to the current CAS (June 2002), as well as the Government's strategy and priorities which
focused on addressing the breakdown in basic clinical and public health functions, planning and
management capacity, inadequate financing and payment mechanisms, and structural mismatch between
the services provided and population needs. Further, this project followed on, and overlapped with, an
initial health project that focused on primary health care center development, hospital reconstruction in two
major centers outside of the capital, and capacity building and training. The lessons of the first project
pointed to the need for a more comprehensive approach to the rationalization of facilities and the need for
increased institutional capacity, which has been reflected in these objectives. These needs have not changed
appreciably over the life of the project. Given all of this, the objectives for this second project appear to
have been reasonable.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the scope of the project was revised during the mid-term review, the Development Objectives
were not changed.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project was to provide financing for civil works, general services equipment, computer hardware and
software, medical equipment, fellowships, study tours, foreign and local training, expert advisory services,
public education materials, and incremental recurrent costs. The estimated total cost of the Project was
US$28.0 million, of which US$17.0 million was to be financed by the IDA Credit. The Project was to be
implemented over a period of four years by the Ministry of Health (MOH), and consisted of four
components (total costs amounts in parentheses, net of contingencies - see Annex 2).

National Capacity Building (US$1.9 million total baseline cost). This component was to develop and
strengthen institutions and competencies required to implement the sector development strategy, which was
developed by the Albanian MOH with international donor collaboration over the three years prior to project
approval, and endorsed by the MOH in letters to the Bank in December 1997. The target institutions were
the MOH and the Health Insurance Institute (HII).



                                                       - 2 -

Governance and Management of Health System in Tirana Region (US$1.2 million total baseline cost).
This component was to support the establishment of institutions to undertake the decentralization of
planning and management to the regional level in Tirana, through assistance to two entities: the Regional
Health Management Team (RHMT) and its Management Board.

Upgrading of Tirana Health Care Delivery System (US$20.9 million total baseline cost). This component
was to (a) support civil works, medical equipment, and supplies for a network of one hospital, three
polyclinics, and 37 health centers; (b) provide technical assistance to improve the functional relationships
among the health services and facilities; (c) provide technical assistance for the adaptation and use of
standard clinical protocols; and (d) provide technical assistance in support of selected public health
interventions of potentially high impact on health status.

Project Management (US$0.5 million total baseline cost). This component was to support the overall
management of the Project in the form of additional office equipment, technical assistance, staff and
training, for the existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the MOH.

The original components arise quite naturally from the development objective, with a high emphasis on
capacity building and improving health system planning and governance. They also follow on well from
the first health project, which focused on primary health care center and hospital construction and
rehabilitation outside the Tirana area. Although the selection of Tirana as the focal point for the key
project interventions could be questioned given the substantial needs in other parts of the country --
especially in rural areas -- two key factors suggest that this was a reasonable selection:

1. Significant increases in the population of Tirana over the past number of years (from 300,000 in 1991
    to an estimated 700,000 in 2000), together with minimal investments in health infrastructure, had
    resulted in inadequate levels and quality of health care in that city, which represents about one-fifth of
    the total population of Albania;

2. As the only tertiary referral center for all of the country, the Tirana University Hospital Center
    (TUHC) had a special role in the overall health care delivery system in Albania. The rationalization
    and improvement of these facilities would both send a powerful message to the rest of the country
    regarding the efficacy of the rationalization approach, and also result in some significant improvements
    in the quality of health care.

However, the decision to pursue the establishment of a regional health authority structure in the Tirana
region should have been foreseen to be potentially problematic, especially given the lack of previous
diagnostic or sector work suggesting that this approach should work, the acknowledged lack of capacity
within the health system, the large number of other activities included in the project, and the overall project
complexity. The benefits of adding yet another major player, the Tirana Regional Health Authority
(TRHA), in the health sector were not clearly articulated in view of the potential costs and disruption that
might be expected. Further, the separation of planning and financing, as well as the relationship between
the proposed TRHA and the HII did not appear to have been clearly understood by the Borrower.

A number of major health sector issues were identified during project preparation and the team was
required to make significant trade-offs in the selection of project components. These issues included: (i)
weak capacity for planning and management, (ii) inadequate resources and provider payment systems, (iii)
poor fit between health services and major health problems (health services concentrated in large
institutions while many health problems could be effectively managed in an out-patient setting), and (iv) a


                                                      - 3 -

potential breakdown of basic clinical and public health services, including shortages in consumables and
supplies for running clinical and public health laboratories. The final design of the project addressed a
number of these issues, but some were not covered through the project.               On balance, the proposed
interventions appear to have achieved a reasonable balance between capacity and institutional development
on one hand, and more tangible and visible results on the other.

3.4 Revised Components:
At the mid-term review in May 2002, the project was restructured along the following lines (revised Credit
amounts in parentheses):

National Capacity Building (US$3.5 million). Additional technical assistance needs were identified in line
with the Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS), focusing on establishing an effective monitoring
and evaluation system to support policy and planning in the MOH, supporting hospital policy and
regulation initiatives, especially the Durres Hospital pilot project, and increased support to the Institute of
Public Health to improve the National Health Promotion Strategy. In addition, increased capacity building
was planned for the HII, including a financial and health management information system (HMIS) and a
new building to house the HII.

Governance and Management of Health System in Tirana Region (US$1.8 million). Additional support
was provided to HMIS, the development of the Tirana Regional Master Plan, and for primary health care
manager and clinician training.

Upgrading of Tirana Health Care Delivery System (US$11.1 million). The number of urban and rural
health centers was scaled back from 33 to 16, and the extensive civil works planned for the Tirana
University Hospital Center (TUHC) were refocused to concentrate on: (i) finalization of a new master plan
for TUHC, (ii) preparation of an Environmental Management Plan, Waste Management Plan and Traffic
Impact Statement, and (iii) rehabilitation of critical infrastructure, including the Biomedical Unit, Oncology
Building, and Hospital Administration Building and traffic impact assessment within the TUHC campus.
Technical assistance was also planned to strengthen the Biomedical Engineering Unit.

Project Management (US$0.7 million). The MTR focused attention on the need to improve project
monitoring and evaluation, financial management and staff training.

At that time, it was also proposed that a two-year extension be given, but it was decided to keep the
extension to a single year. Subsequently, a further one-year extension was approved. Many of the changes
made during the MTR were quite positive and reflected what might be realistically achieved between the
date of the restructuring (May 2002) and the new closing date (January 31, 2004). However, two possible
problems might have been foreseen in this approach. First, given the well documented reluctance of the
Government of Albania to utilize Credit funds for technical assistance activities, it is not clear the extent to
which the significant increase in funding for capacity building would be fully accepted by the Borrower.
Second, even with a one-year extension, the construction work program related to the TUHC still seemed
exceedingly optimistic, especially given the accumulated track record of the PCU at the time of the MTR in
failing to meet agreed deadlines. The short period remaining should have been foreseen as an impediment
for the various stakeholders to take the deadlines seriously. It may have been better at this point to either
grant a full two-year extension to give a reasonable time to complete these activities, or to cut them out of
the project entirely. Further changes of the project scope were made following the MTR and are described
in Section 4.2.




                                                       - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
No formal Quality at Entry Review (QER) was undertaken. On balance, based on the information
available, the quality at entry is rated Unsatisfactory. Using as 6-point scale, it would likely be rated
Marginally Unsatisfactory. Although, as noted in Section 3.1, the development objectives were highly
relevant in terms of the CAS and the Government's priorities in the health sector, and there appears to have
been a high level of Borrower support and ownership for the project and its interventions at the time of
Board presentation, the project does not appear to have been sufficiently prepared to allow for the
completion of the TUHC within the original timeframe. Given the situation in Albania, the project was too
ambitious from the outset, in addition to having problems in project preparation.

A considerable amount of work was done prior to Board presentation, in terms of the completion of a
functional medical program for the TUHC, the development of design concepts for the health centers, and
the development of technical specifications for the equipment that was to be procured. However, a physical
architectural master plan had not been completed in sufficient detail to provide a basis for the development
of detailed tender documents. The Bank project preparation team did not include a hospital architect who
was experienced in tertiary care hospital construction.

Further, only a few terms of reference appear to have been drafted, with the exception to those for the
Tirana Regional Health Authority. Also, the Project Operations Manual took some time to finalize, and the
monitoring, and evaluation indicators were only defined during implementation. Finally, while the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) refers to significant amounts of financing from other donors, it appears that much
of this had not been committed at the point of Board presentation, and indeed the amount eventually made
available was much less than as shown in the SAR.

The SAR identifies the key risks as (i) political and social upheavals could preclude the stability needed for
effective implementation, (ii) weak national capacity could hinder implementation, and (iii) fiscal instability
could make it difficult for the Government to meet its counterpart financing commitments.            Proposed
mitigation measures included the intrinsic benefits to major stakeholders of cooperation, an emphasis on
improving community ownership and involvement, specifying responsibilities for implementation prior to
project effectiveness and by appropriate use of external technical assistance, and limiting required
counterpart funds to the most essential recurrent expenditures. While the mitigation measures appear to be
appropriate, sufficient attention was not focused on the severe capacity limitations, based on what was
known of the situation in Albania at the time. The monitoring and evaluation system was also very weak,
and while the SAR indicated that monitoring indicators would be agreed upon and targets set at project
launch, this was not done and base line values were not established for most indicators.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project is rated Unsatisfactory. Using a 6-point scale, it would be rated Marginally
Unsatisfactory. The project's overall achievements clearly do not match the expectations set out either at
appraisal or the revised expectations developed during the mid-term review.          Relatively inconsistent
monitoring of key indicators, except towards the end of the project, as well as a number of changes in these
indicators during project implementation tended to hamper ongoing efforts to monitor project achievements
(see Annex 1). However, the project should make an initial contribution towards strengthening planning
and management capacity in the Ministry of Health as well as in the Tirana Region. These include:




                                                     - 5 -

l completion of the Tirana Region Health Master Plan (the first effort in the country to plan health care
    provision and investments in service delivery in line with population needs),
l completion of the TUHC Master Development Plan, including architechtural drawings and
    specifications,
l development of a business and management plan for Tirana University and Durres University Hospital
    as well as a national strategy to strengthen management capacity in the hospital sector,
l completion of the national health sector reform strategy,
l development and adoption of a national health promotion strategy (the IPH is currently in the process
    of developing implementation plans), and
l national HIV/AIDS strategy.


In terms of increasing access to improved quality of care in the Tirana region, the project's impact will be
much more modest than initially anticipated, due to the need to repeatedly reduce the scope of rehabilitation
works at TUHC and a reduction in the number of primary care and other outpatient facilities which have
been rehabilitated under the project. The need to further reduce the scope of rehabilitation works at TUHC
was driven by delays in the completion and adoption of the hospital master plan and a lack of proactivity of
the implementing agency in terms of proceeding with designs for work in a timely fashion upon completion
of the master plan.

The number of primary care facilities to be rehabilitated was reduced due to the decision taken at the
mid-term review to put further rehabilitation of facilities in rural areas on hold pending completion of the
Tirana Region health master plan.

The failure of bilateral TA to materialize prevented the project from improving the clinical skills of service
providers and thus also required lower expectations in terms of improved quality of service delivery.
Nevertheless, the project is expected to have a positive impact on service delivery in the Tirana region both
through rehabilitation of primary care facilities and the provision of essential medical equipment to both
rehabilitated primary care facilities and TUHC. Given that the bulk of this equipment was delivered and
installed in the last six months of the project, however, the development impact of this investment is
difficult to measure within the timeframe of this project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The project's work program was substantially curtailed several times, although despite this, many revised
actions and deadlines were consistently not met.        The factors included slow responsiveness by key
implementing agencies/departments, poor performance of the PCU's procurement unit and, in some cases,
poor performance of consultants despite careful follow up by the Bank team on all consultant assignments.

Component A (National Capacity Building for Health System Management and Reform, actual cost was
$US1.13 million of total project cost), is rated Marginally Satisfactory. The output from this component
was uneven across the various activities. The National HIV/AIDS Strategy was completed and launched
with broad stakeholder participation in the Spring of 2004. A Health Sector Reform Strategy was also
developed, supported by a policy and planning consultant financed through the project. The Strategy
constitutes a significant improvement over earlier documents which were mere situation analysis and
stopped short of clearly spelling out policy objectives and reform directions. Further work is still needed in
promoting the Strategy and developing a broad consensus on the proposed directions, as well as translating
the Strategy into achievable action plans. The Budget Tracking Survey and National Health Accounts
Study were completed in December 2004, despite significant problems in obtaining the appropriate
information from the MOH, HII and other agencies.           A planned National Health Human Resources
Strategy was not completed. Satisfactory progress was achieved in assistance provided to the TUHC and



                                                     - 6 -

Durres hospital management for the development of a business plan and overall hospital management
strategies.

Renovation of the Institute of Public Health's training facilities were completed satisfactorily. A draft set
of revisions to the legislation pertaining to health financing and insurance was completed, but a broad
government consensus on the approaches contained in the legislation has not yet been achieved. Further
work on the legislative package is still needed, but it is likely that this will be left until after the elections in
the summer of 2005. In terms of training, much of the individual training activity for the MOH and HII
could not be completed due to the lack of financing that was expected from other donors. The MOH and
the MOF appeared unwilling to consider using Credit funds for these activities, despite the fact that there
were funds unused, due to delays in other components of the project. Study tours and group training did go
ahead, however.

Component B (Governance and Management of the Health System in Tirana, actual cost was $US0.97
million of total project cost), is rated Marginally Unsatisfactory. In January 2004, it was agreed to only
keep two activities in the project's work program under this component, namely: (i) completion of the
Tirana region health systems plan, which, if completed satisfactorily, would provide a much needed
framework for planning of service delivery and sectoral investments in other regions; and (ii) management
training for primary care providers. The planned training activities did go ahead, as these were funded out
of the Credit. The renovation of the premises for the TRHA, as well as the procurement of furniture and
equipment, were also completed. Although the outputs were achieved, there is a fundamental issue whether
the establishment of the TRHA has actually contributed positively to the overall management of the health
system in Tirana. Although the TRHA succeeded in pulling together a number of disparate health service
delivery insitituions, it did not provide the overall management and guidance that was originally
anticipated. Part of the difficulty arose from differing views of the role of the TRHA, especially between
the Bank team and the consultants engaged in the implementation process, an unclear vision of the role of
TRHA by the Government and potential contradictions between an RHA and HII based system in a small
country, depending on the approach used.

Component C (Upgrading of the Tirana Health Care Delivery System, actual cost was $US9.66 million of
total project cost), is rated Marginally Unsatisfactory. Although this was probably the most highly
developed component at the start of the project, some fundamental components (such as an architectural
master plan) had not been completed or even planned by the Board date. Further, a great deal of the
preparation that had been completed came undone when a change was requested in the development
strategy to exclude the department of infectious diseases from the internal medicine building. As a result of
this decision, in mid-2000, a comprehensive revision of the strategy was needed, and the resulting delay
made it impossible to complete the construction activities, despite a two-year extension to the project. The
activities were progressively scaled down, and these new targets were repeatedly not met. In the end, the
major output of the civil works activities with respect to TUHC was the finalization of the technical
specifications for the internal medicine building. These specifications, and the architectural plan, have been
instrumental in allowing the Government of Albania (GOA) and the TUHC to find other sources of
financing for the construction activity.

Although the rehabilitation and construction of urban and rural health centers in the Tirana region got off
to a fairly quick start, progress slowed with the result that only 16 centers were eventually completed,
compared to the 33 centers originally planned. The program was stopped at the MTR, pending completion
of Tirana Regional Health Plan, but this plan was significantly delayed and finished just a few months
before project completion. This did not allow time for further investments. In addition, after the second
extension, the MOH decided to eliminate urban rehabilitation from Credit funding, as bilateral grant money


                                                     - 7 -

became available for this purpose.

Procurement of medical equipment for TUHC and rehabilitated primary care facilities and polyclinics was
finally completed by the end of the project, but the process was fraught with repeated delays and
procurement problems. However, with respect to the TUHC equipment, both the Ministry of Health and
TUHC management indicated that this equipment will provide an effective complement to the reconstructed
facilities once they are completed, and they expect that this will contribute to achieving the goal of
transforming the TUHC into a modern tertiary hospital center.

Component D (Project Management, actual cost is $US0.92 million of total project cost), is rated
Unsatisfactory. Overall project management has not been satisfactory for much of the project, despite
repeated commitments by the Ministry management to closely monitor project performance. The PCU's
procurement unit performed poorly and key departments of the MOH and Tirana Regional Health
Authority were slow to respond to TA activities. The project monitoring plan and detailed implementation
time tables were continuously reviewed and carefully revised, but key deadlines were regularly missed and
activities not undertaken.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:
There was a Modest institutional development impact in the areas of capacity building for both the MOH
and the HII. Although a number of studies and strategies were developed (See Annex 1 - Outputs), there
still remain a fairly small cadre of personnel in the MOH and HII who are capable of directing the essential
ongoing reform efforts. Capacity was built in the TRHA as well, although the efficacy of the regional
health authority (RHA) approach, as implemented, is open to question. The Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) mission concluded that there will be a need to fundamentally review the objectives, functions
and organization of the RHA approach, and these issues will be addressed in the forthcoming Bank Health
Sector Note. Further, the MOH is proposing to roll out an appropriately modified approach to the rest of
Albania first, and then making the necessary changes to the TRHA once the design approach has been
proven elsewhere. Staff movements and turnover as a result of political and other changes resulted in many
of those trained being lost to the system. The reluctance of the MOH and the MOF to utilize Credit funds
to finance capacity building activities when expected donor financing did not materialize points to a
ongoing lack of appreciation of the value of such activities in the overall reform process, although these
views appear to have changed in the last while.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
By the time the project became effective, the impact of the civil unrest had diminished somewhat.
However, during the first half of 1999, the Kosovo conflict resulted in almost 500,000 refugees flooding
into Albania. This overwhelmed the health system and diverted the attention of the Ministry of Health and
others away from the implementation of this project. This was one factor in the delay in project activities
early on in the project, although by no means the sole reason for these delays.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A number of factors under the control of the Government/Ministry of Health negatively affected



                                                      - 8 -

implementation, and ultimately, the outcome of the project. First, the decision to change the program for
the redevelopment of TUHC resulted in significant additional programming work, and eventually led to the
cancellation of the civil works activity. As noted above, the reluctance of the Borrower to use Credit funds
for capacity building limited the effectiveness of these activities. Multiple changes in Ministers of Health
and other key staff contributed to frequent changes in direction and lack of continuity. A senior level
person in the MOH was not designated to be responsible for implementation oversight until the last year of
the project. Finally, changes in the treatment of PCU salaries caused further anxiety and problems for a
PCU that already had enough challenges.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
PCU capacity was generally weak throughout the implementation period, despite efforts that were
undertaken to improve implementing agency performance. Deadlines were routinely missed, and many
procurement delays resulted from the inability or unwillingness of the PCU staff and/or evaluation
committees to adhere to Bank procurement guidelines. The implementation schedule was overly optimistic.
For example, the schedule in the PIP showed a total of one year for all of the civil works rehabilitation
activity under Component C, including the rural PHC centers, urban PHC centers, polyclinics, and TUHC.
Moreover, all of these activites were planned to take place simultaneously. No time allowance was made
for architectural and engineering services. Had the initial planning been more realistic, the feasibility of
future suggestions with respect to the TUHC rehabilitation may have been more obvious.               Lack of
Borrower commitment to the changes agreed to during the MTR may also have been a factor.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Continued implementation delays resulted in slow disbursement of funds, except towards the very end of
the project, where US$6.5 million was disbursed over a period of just 6 months, representing over half of
the total disbursements. As a result, by March 31, 2005, US$ 12.5 million equivalent had been disbursed,
representing 69.6 percent of the total Credit amount.        Another US$4.0 million equivalent had been
cancelled, and the total undisbursed was US$2.2 million. No problems were encountered with Borrower
contributions, but these were kept to a minimum in the original design. Major problems did occur with
expected contributions from other donors, as reflected in Annex 2. As a result of this, significant parts of
the development program could not be completed. This highlights a major flaw in the overall project design
(see Section 8 - Lessons Learned).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's overall sustainability rating is Unlikely, based on the fairly large unfinished agenda, in terms
of both capacity building and TUHC reconstruction, as well as the questionable efficacy of one of the main
interventions -- the TRHA. On the other hand, it is quite likely that the capacity built in both the HII and
the MOH will be sustained, and the HII appears to be on a fairly solid financial footing, despite ongoing
coverage and revenue issues. It is clear that these issues will need to be addressed before the HII is able to
play a larger role than it already does. In fact, this was a limiting factor in the inability to extend GP
coverage beyond the limited coverage of GP salaries and drug costs in the Tirana region. It is intended that
these issues would be the principal focus of a follow-on project, currently under preparation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As most of the interventions took place within the context of existing structures, there are few areas where
transition arrangements are needed. One key area is the TRHA, where the details of the regional health
authority concept need to be reviewed and clarified. While the Long-term Health System Development
Strategy endorses the RHA concept, it is clear (as discussed in Section 4.5 above), that some modifications
are needed to make this a workable approach, especially outside the Tirana Region.               The hospital



                                                     - 9 -

construction needs of the TUHC is another area where transition arrangements are needed, since little of
this work was done within the timeframe of the project. To date, some of the additional funding that will be
needed for this has come directly from the budget, while discussions are underway with various European
International Financial Institutions (IFI's) to finance these works. In terms of the medical equipment
purchased toward the end of the project, additional expenses can be expected for both supplies and
operations and maintenance expenses. It is not clear how these expenses will be covered given the
relatively low level of funding in the health sector, and there is no indication that an analysis of these
incremental costs has been conducted.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
On balance, project preparation is rated Unsatisfactory.          Using a 6-point scale, it would be rated
Marginally Unsatisfactory. Although the available documentation suggests that there was good interaction
between the Bank team and the counterparts, and a fair amount of preparatory work was completed prior to
Board approval, the total amount of preparation and effort required for the TUHC appears to have been
significantly underestimated. The costs of doing this work was also much higher than originally forecast.
Further, the Ministry of Health indicated during the ICR mission that in their view, the regional health
authority concept was pushed on them, even though they were unsure of the implications. In retrospect, the
project was too complex and wide-ranging given the capabilities of the Albanian counterparts and
insufficient time was budgeted for the major construction activities, as reflected by the PIP. Finally, more
work could also have been done to either secure firm commitments from other donors for some of the
capacity building and quality initiatives, or to provide explicit funding for these activities within the overall
Credit amount, should the donor funding not materialize.             Covenants in the Development Credit
Aagreement (DCA) could have been used for this purpose.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision is rated Unsatisfactory. Using a 6-point scale, it would be rated Marginally
Unsatisfactory. The supervision of this project was marked by two main weaknesses, including:
     1. Frequent turnover of both task team leaders and country team management. Over the life of the
         project, team leadership changed five times, with five different individuals holding this position
         (one individual was TTL twice). Each TTL appeared to have slightly different priorities and
         viewpoints on the merits of the various project interventions, and these were reflected in the policy
         and implementation discussions. Three different country directors and country managers were also
         involved with the project.
     2. Ongoing, overly optimistic target setting and assessments of what might be possible to accomplish,
         especially as the project passed the half-way point in the original project timeline. The optimism of
         these targets and assessments continued in the face of repeatedly missed deadlines and the less than
         satisfactory performance by the PCU and/or the MOH in organizing and executing project
         activities.

This assessment should not take away from the significant amount of effort expended by successive Bank
teams in attempting to implement this project. A total of 16 missions took place over the six year
implementation period, and project teams clearly tried everything possible to figure out how to make things
work. Unfortunately, this effort had limited development impact.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Unsatisfactory. Using a 6-point scale, it would be rated Marginally
Unsatisfactory.



                                                     - 10 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Overall, project preparation is rated Unsatisfactory. Using a 6-point scale, it would be rated Marginally
Unsatisfactory. As noted in Section 7.1 above, despite the preparatory work that was completed prior to
Board approval and the level of buy-in and commitment by the Borrower with respect to the overall design
concept and approach, some fundamental activities and steps were missed which undoubtedly contributed
to the poor implementation performance. It cannot be determined the extent to which this is attributable to,
a lack of knowledge or understanding on the part of the Borrower or simply to excessive optimism and
enthusiasm for moving ahead quickly with project implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated Unsatisfactory. Using a 6-point scale, it would be rated
Marginally Unsatisfactory. The early days of project implementation was marked by a decision to
restructure the PCU, and to revisit the development strategy for the TUHC. There were also delays in
identifying facilities for the TRHA and the HII. Further, once it became clear that the donor funds would
not materialize, the Ministry of Health failed to support many of the capacity building and technical
assistance activities, even though these were agreed on during the mid-term review, and explicit
reallocations were made to support these new initiatives. On the positive side, there did not appear to be a
problem with counterpart funding contributions, or with identifying staff for the various capacity
development opportunities. Lack of appreciation on the part of the MOF of the value and need for "soft"
investments in health sector and the need to move from reconstruction to sectoral restructuring appears to
have limited the effective use of technical assistance.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance is rated Unsatisfactory. Although project implementation appeared to
start well in some areas, there were some early warning signs in others, including delays in completing the
Operations Manual, and documented morale issues arising from the restructuring of the PCU. After the
addition of an international implementation consultant and procurement support, the situation appeared to
improve, but staff turnover once again degraded performance. The PCU appeared to be overwhelmed by
both the nature and variety of tasks that it was asked to perform, and appeared to suffer from relatively
weak leadership. Monitoring and evaluation was virtually ignored for much of the project implementation.
Although project restructuring was agreed to during the MTR, the degree of ownership and commitment by
the MOH is unclear.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated Unsatisfactory.           Using a 6-point scale, it would be rated
Marginally Unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

There were 4 significant lessons learned from this project:

1. Contributions from other donors should not be reflected in the project costing and activities schedule
    unless firm commitments have been obtained. In the absence of this, explicit arrangements should be
    included in the Credit financing and covenants to ensure that these activities can be continued if the
    donor financing does not materialize. If the donor funds are made available, the concomitant Credit
    funds can either be cancelled or reallocated to other activities.

2. Where Borrower commitment to various project activities appears uneven, strategies should be



                                                     - 11 -

    developed to ensure that the implementation of activities which may seen as lower priority by the
    Borrower is not adversely affected if problems occur in other activities which the Borrower may
    consider as having higher priority. Further, teams should carefully consider the extent to which social
    sector projects which aim to support substantial sectoral restructuring should also include large
    infrastructure investments, as the infrastructure investments may tend to both divert attention from the
    sectoral reforms and reinforce attention to service delivery. This is especially true where the line
    agency is still substantially engaged in service delivery and financing of service provision rather than
    policy formulation and sectoral governance. Specific disbursement conditions tying infrastructure
    development to progress on reforms may be one approach to address this.

3. Monitoring and evaluation indicators should include key benchmarks and decision points, especially
    where activities require substantial implementation time.               The time schedules for lengthy
    implementation activities should be carefully constructed, allowing an appropriate length of time for
    each step of the process, and also reflecting the experience and expertise of the implementation agency.

4. Small punctuated TA interventions (such as those introduced during the mid-term review) achieve little,
    as they fail to substantially engage counterparts, do not build up a longer-term relationship of mutual
    trust, and do not result in the TA activity becoming an integral part of the implementing agency's work
    program. A more comprehensive, coherent and longer-term technical assistance program is usually
    necessary.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

I.       INTRODUCTION

This document is the completion report of "Health System Recovery and Development " Project (No 3067
 ALB), prepared by the Ministry of Health. The project became effective as of July 1998, and was
completed January 31, 2005.         (The initial completion date was January 31, 2003, which was later
postponed to January 31, 2005.)

The report includes information on: (i) project goals and component design; (ii) project activities and an
evaluation of the performed activities; and (iii) the sustainability of the results, and learned lessons from the
project which can be used in future projects.

Also the Appendices give financial and procurement information.

II.      PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE

The project development objective was to assist the MOH in developing institutions and national capacity
for an effective and sustainable health care system. The specific objectives were to (i) establish/strengthen
institutional and human resources capacities for an effective and sustainable health sector; and (ii) improve
the accessibility, quality and efficiency of health services.

III.     PROJECT COMPONENTS

The project has four components:
1.       National Capacity Building



                                                      - 12 -

2.       Governance and Management of Health System in Tirana Region
3.       Upgrading of Tirana Health Care Delivery System
4.       Project Management

Component 1: National Capacity Building. This component supports the development and strengthening of
institutions and competencies required to implement the sector development reforms and strategy. The
target institutions concerned were Ministry of health and Health Insurance Institute.

Component 2: Governance and Management of Health System in Tirana Region. The Project supports the
decentralization of planning and management functions to the regional level in Tirana, through assistance to
Tirana Regional Health Authority.

Component 3. Upgrading of Tirana Health Care Delivery System. This component supports civil works,
medical equipment, and supplies for a network of TUHC, three polyclinics, and 33 health centres; technical
assistance to improve the functional relationships among the health services and facilities and technical
assistance in support of selected public health interventions of potentially high impact on health status.

Component 4. Project Management

This component supports overall management of the project in the form of additional office equipment,
technical assistance, staff and training, for the PCU/MoH.



IV.      PROJECT ACTIVITIES

IV.1 National Capacity Building

This component had two major directions: (i) Ministry of Health and (ii) Health Insurance Institute.
Detailed activities under each subcomponent are summarized below.

1. Ministry of Health

1.1      Support to National Health Policy and Planning

a)       Participatory Qualitative Stakeholder Assessment Study (Tirana Region) . Under the assistance of
         an international consultant and a national consultant company, the QSA employed qualitative
         methods in order to engage a broad range of stakeholders in considering issues related to health
         care access and quality at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, such that the findings can be
         used by the MOH and others to inform health policy. Importantly, access and quality are both
         related to one of the main health objectives of the NSSED. An important aspect of the QSA was
         the enhancement of capacity for the conduct of linked qualitative and quantitative research in
         Albania and the encouragement of joint public/private sector collaboration on health services
         research.
b)       National Health Accounts. Under the assistance of an international and national consultant was
         developed an initial structure for National Health Accounts. During this activity was revised and
         refined the methodological framework for NHAs in Albania, was elaborated the process of
         production of NHAs for 2002 and was provided training to local consultants and Government
         officials in the production and use of NHAs.
c)       Health Budget Tracking. An international Budget Tracking Specialist assisted to help review and


                                                     - 13 -

        strengthen the system of flow and control of public sector funds in the health sector.
d)       Health Planning and Coordination . In addition to help coordinate the activities on the health
        policy and planning side, the international consultant also provided assistance to the MoH with the
        establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluating and helped develop and implement a system to
        evaluate the impact of the project. The M&E system was developed.
e)      Study tours. Two study tours were organized under this project (England, Denmark and Germany)
        aiming to increase capacity building of TRHA and HII management team
f)      Training. Five people were trained abroad and obtained Master Degrees in Health Policy, Public
        Health and Hospital Management and Administration.

1.2     Hospital Policy and and Management

a)      TUHC and Durres Hospital Management and Financing. The consultant company assisted the
        management team of TUHC and DH on the development of strategic and business plans for their
        hospitals.

1.3     National Health Promotion & Public Health Strategy.

a)      National HIV/AIDS Strategy. The International consultant advised the Institute of Public Health
        on the develop a national HIV/AIDS control and prevention strategy.
b)      Rehabilitation and A&E services for IPH Training Centre. A detailed procedure for completion and
        handover of the rehabilitation works was developed and followed.
c)      Furniture for the IPH Training Centre. The installation of the furniture and equipment has been
        checked and they have been formal handed over to IPH.

2. Health Insurance Institute.

2.1) Drafting Health Insurance Legislation.

Under the assistance of an international consultant was prepared a basic package of health legislation
included:

1)      Law on Health System that defines and regulates the providers.
2)      Law on Health Financing, regulating cash and information flows in the public sector.
3)      Law on Health Insurance Fund, regulating the public corporation as an autonomous body, as well
        as defining its relation with other institutions and agencies in the health sector

IV.2 Governance and Management of Health System in Tirana Region

Under this component was established Tirana Regional Health Authority. The legislation for the
establishment of the TRHA was approved by the Council of Ministers in Jul 200, and the first contractual
agreement between HII and TRA was signed between tem in January 2002. Under this contract, HII will
finance all of the government primary care services in the Tirana region administered through TRHA.

The detailed activities are as follows:

1.      TRHA building and equipment.

        The Project has completed the rehabilitation of the office building and installation of furniture and


                                                      - 14 -

       equipment for TRHA. The installation of the computers has been checked and the building and the
       equipment have been formal handed over to TRHA.

2.     Regional Health Master Plan.

       The development of the Regional Health Master Plan furnished TRHA with the key instrument for
       improving the quality and effectiveness of the existing PHC services in Tirana. Master Plan
       involved the specification of service standards and norms, service mapping and surveys, and the
       development of detailed medium-term investment, budgeting and staffing strategies for the Region.

IV. 3 Upgrading of Tirana Health Care Delivery System

The two main activities under this Component are as follows:

1.     Upgrading Primary Care Facilities.

       Under this activity, in the Tirana Region are rehabilitated/constructed 11 primary health care
       centres in rural areas and 4 Polyclinics in the urban areas. Designs were simple and
       construction/rehabilitation quality was very good. The Project also has completed also the
       installation of furniture and equipment in the respective upgraded primary health care facilities.

2.     Rehabilitation of DHE building and equipment.

       The Project has completed the rehabilitation of the DHE building and installation of equipment for
       DHE. The rehabilitation works were supervised b a local company (New Sh.P.K ).The building
       and the equipment have been formal handed over to TRHA.

3.     Upgrading Tirana University Hospital Centre

3.1    Master Planning of TUHC.

       Under this project with the assistance of an international consultant company (PROTECNE Italy)
       was prepared and approved by the MoH the final Master Plan of TUHC.

3.2    Internal Medicine and Oncology Building.

       The PROTECNE has prepared the design for the new internal medicine building and oncology
       building. During this project was prepared from the same company the construction document for
       the rehabilitation of the first phase of the Oncology Building.

3.3    Rehabilitation of the Oncology Building

       The Project has completed the rehabilitation of the oncology building. The building has been
       formal handed over to TUHC.

3.4    Essential Medical Equipment and Spare Parts.

       The most important activity, during this project was the procurement of Basic Medical Equipment
       with a total value more than 6,5 million USD dollars. During this process was assured a smooth


                                                    - 15 -

         inspection delivery and acceptance of goods. The equipment has been formal handed over to
         TUHC.

3.5      Capacity building of the Biomedical Engineering Unit

         An international bioengineering consultant assisted in the upgrading of the TUHC bioengineering
         unit. The TA supported the TUHC management in preparing a strategic plan as well as provides
         on-the-job training of the TUHC technical team in ensuring an effective and sustainable operation
         and maintenance of biomedical equipment on TUHC.
         This international consultant also assisted PCU in procurement process of medical equipment.

3.6      TA for the delivery, installation and acceptance of biomedical equipment

         This consultancy advised on the optimal procedures for planning and organizing the delivery,
         installation and acceptance of the new equipment and actively supported the Biomedical Unit at
         TUHC in the phases of installation, distribution to end-users, and technical acceptance of the new
         equipment.

IV. 4 Project Management

1. PCU Technology

         During this Project was upgraded the server and computer system of the PCU offices. A new
         server and dour working stations was purchased under this activity.

2. PCU Staff Training

         The financial officer attended a course in FM at ILO Training Centre  Turin
         The Deputy Director attended a course on Project Management at the same place.
         The two procurement staff of the PCU attended a workshop in the UK provided by the Crown
         Agents "Procurement for Development Projects"
         The Project also financed the participation of the MoH and PCU delegation to the WB PCU
         Conference held in Romania, Georgia, Lithuania, Turkey, Poland and Bosnja-Hercegovina.
         The deputy director and two procurement officers attended an workshop on " Selection of
         Consulting Services" organised by the WB in Belgrade and the deputy director attended on 2004,
         the workshop on" Procurement of information technology" organised by the WB in Sarajevo.

V.       Ministry of Health standing on the project.

Achievements

The project suffered the failure of the construction of the Internal Medicine hospital, which was the main
component of project from the financial viewpoint. The delays in arriving the consensus for the medical
Master-Plan of the TUHC, made it impossible to complete the construction activities.
But anyway, we would like to reiterate that there was not any accurate calculation of the cost of this
hospital at the starting point of the project. After the final design the cost of the construction resulted an
amount approximately 3 times more than was planned. In short run, if we would succeeded in the
contruction in due time the financing through the credit would resulted impossible. Regarding the other
activities of Component 3 ( rural and urban health centers). The program was stopped at the MTR pending


                                                     - 16 -

completion of Tirana Regional Health Plan ( which was not forecasted at the start of the project). The
preparation of Tirana Regional Health plan did not allow time for further investments. ( the period from
tendering till completion of this assignment was more than 9 months).

Despite delays and problems that accompanied the project, we consider precious achievements the
following :

       Completion of the Tirana Region Health Master-plan. This is the first effort in the country to plan
        health provisions and investments in service delivery in line with population needs
       Completion of the TUHC Master Development Plan, including architectural drawings and Final
        design and specifications for the Internal medicine building ( which is going to be funded by Bank
        of Council of Europe).
       Development of a business and management plan for Tirana University and Durres Hospital as
        well a National strategy to strengthen management capacity in the hospital sector
       Development of Adoption of a National Health Promotion Strategy
       National HIV/AIDS strategy
       Construction of 16 Health centers and polyclinics
       Procurement of large package of medical equipment for TUHC ( 6.5 million USD).
       A legal package for improving health financing
       A National Health Account report

VI.     Ministry approach towards lack of project achievements, in the following areas:

       Lack of adequate responsibility and accountability on the preparation time of the project (
        especially in the completion of a physical architectural master plan of the TUHC).
       Lack of donors coordination

VII.    Lessons learnt to be duly considered in the future projects

1.      Contributions from other donors needs to be arranged by the Bank and only after the appropriate
        commitments are obtained , they should be reflected in the project costing and activities.

2.      Small packages of TA require a lot of work and most of them are going to be failed if will be
arranged separately.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                        Outcome Indicators

      Indicators/Matrix               Projected/Target             Actual/Latest Estimate
A  Capacity Building

1. National Health Sector                 Completed             Adopted by the Government in
Strategy setting out reform                                                  2004
path and sectoral priorities is
adopted and used to guide
policies and donor support

2. Three-year rolling Plans         Completed after year 2                 Ongoing
(MTEF) prepared in line with
the objectives and targets of
the National Health Strategy

3. MOH strengthens capacities    HR Strategy to be completed       Currently being drafted
in human resource planning
and management in the health
sector

4. National capacity for         HII is financially solvent and    HII is autonomous and
sustainable health finance       autonomous by the end of the   generally solvent, but coverage
system developed                            project               is limited, and purchasing
                                                                capacity is not fully developed


5. HII covers primary health     Coverage extended to include   PHC covered in Tirana region
care by the end of the project                PHC               only, elsewhere only drugs and
                                                                   GP salaries are covered

6. Public Health Institute       Completed by the end of Year    National Health Promotion
develops a National Public              2 of the Project.          Strategy completed and
Health Policy against                                               adopted in July 2003.
Non-communicable Diseases                                       National HIV/AIDS Strategy
and Injuries                                                      completed by April 2004.

7. Non-communicable Disease      Launched by end of year 3 of            Not launched
Program launched                           the Project

                                                                         Not launched
8. Injury Control Program           Launched by end of the
launched                                    Project.




                                                  - 18 -

       Indicators/Matrix                 Projected/Target            Actual/Latest Estimate
B  TRHA
9. MOH and Tirana regional         TRHA functioning according           TRHA established,
policy formulation, planning       to its TOR by the end of the    effectiveness appears to be
and decision making process                   Project.                         limited
has been strengthened through
improved availability              Tirana Regional Health Care               Completed
reliability and utility of health     Master Plan completed
sector data and information

C  Tirana Health System
10. Increase in population who        No target set at project    41% of Tirana population have
has access to primary health                 initiation            access to PHC in renovated
care services in rehabilitated                                         facilities, no baseline
facilities                                                                  information

11. Increase in service               No target set at project     Current utilization relatively
utilization per health center     initiation and no baseline data  low as 6.6 visits per GP per
since project appraisal                      collected              day  no comparison data

12. Percent of population             No target set at project    No protocols were developed
treated according to improved                initiation           as Italian TA foreseen for this
clinical protocols                                                      did not materialize


                                           Output Indicators

       Indicators/Matrix                 Projected/Target            Actual/Latest Estimate
A  Capacity Building
Strategies and Studies
 NationalHumanResources               Completed by MOH              Attempted but not done
     Strategy
 NationalHealthAccounts               Completed by MOH               Completed Dec. 2004
     report
 HospitalStrategyfor                       Completed                        Completed
     national hospital
     management capacity

Infrastructure
 M&ECoordinationUnit                  Functioning at MOH                   In progress
 Renovatedinfrastructure           Completed at Institute of               In progress
     for training/documentation            Public Health
     center
 NewfacilitiesforHII                       Completed              Not done, building not found

Equipment
 Furnitureandequipment            1 set each for MOH and HII       1 set each for MOH, HII
     for MOH and HII


                                                    - 19 -

     Indicators/Matrix            Projected/Target        Actual/Latest    Training:
                                                            Estimate       # retained
Training  MOH
 investmentplanning          2 people x 9 months each    0, no funds
 healthfinanceplanningand      1 person x 9 months       0, no funds
   budgeting
 pharmaceuticalpolicy        2 people x 3 months each    0, no funds

Training - HII
 healthplanning             9 months training x 1 person 0, no funds
 healthinsuranceseminars
   and workshops                      30 people                30          not known
 Tiranaregionaloffice        8 people x 2 months each    0, no funds

Study tours
 toseeautonomousGP            10 people x 2 weeks in          20              10
   practice and contracting      Denmark and UK
 toseehealthinsurance            9 people x 1 week             9              9
   functioning in Germany

     Indicators/Matrix            Projected/Target           Actual/Latest Estimate
B  TRHA
Strategies and Studies
 Budgettrackinganalysis     Completed for Tirana Region            Completed
 QualitativeMonitoring&       Piloted in Tirana Region       Completed Dec. 2003
   Evaluation instruments
 Hospitalfinanceand         Completed  Durres Regional            Completed
   management strategy           Hospital and TUHC

Infrastructure
 RenovationsatTRHA                  Completed                      Completed

     Indicators/Matrix            Projected/Target        Actual/Latest    Training:
                                                           Estimate        # retained
Training  TRHA
 healthplanning/finance        1 person x 9 months             1              1
 healthmanagement              1 person x 9 months             1              -
 publichealth                2 people x 9 months each          1              -
 biomedicaltechnologies        1 person x 9 months       1, changed to        -
                                                          health policy




                                             - 20 -

      Indicators/Matrix              Projected/Target            Actual/Latest Estimate
C  Tirana Health System
Improving Clinical Quality
 NumberofGPstrained                50 GPs and Nurses           Not completed, contracting
 Numberofnursetrainers                 to be trained                   problems
trained
 Numberoftrainingcourses          Number not specified         Not completed as trainers not
held and persons trained                                                 trained

Infrastructure
 Numberofruralhealth                        27                            13
centers constructed/renovated
 Numberofruralhealth                        10                             5
centers constructed/renovated
 Numberofpolyclinics                         3                             3
constructed or renovated
 Renovations/reconstruction    New internal medicine and       Renovations of radiotherapy
completed in TUHC                   emergency building           building done at TUHC

Equipment
 Classroomfurnitureand       4 sets each for GPs and Nurses                4
equipment
 Numberofsetsofhospital      Diagnostic, laboratory, intensive        Completed
medical equipment:                   care and surgery
 NumberofsetsofPHC                        37 sets                       13 sets
medical equipment:
 Numberofsetsofpolyclinic       3 sets each for radiology/                 3
equipment                     diagnostic, clinical laboratory,
                                   ophthalmology, ENT,
                              physiotherapy, dermatology, and
                                     sterilization units,
                                 1 each of gynecology and
                                    emergency/gypsum
Supplies
 Quantityofessential         $1.7 M worth of supplies from            not known
supplies provided                          the EU
D  Project Management
Equipment
Furniture and equipment for   Office furniture and equipment,          Purchased
PMU                                        vehicle




                                                - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                     Component                          US$ million  US$ million
A. National Capacity Building for Health System            1.94           1.13            58
Management and Reform
B. Governance and Management of the Health System in       1.21           0.97            80
Tirana
C. Upgrading of the Tirana Health Care Delivery System    20.89           9.66            46
D. Project Management                                      0.51           0.93           182
E. VAT (all components)                                                   0.64

Total Baseline Cost                                       24.55         13.33
 Physical Contingencies                                    2.31
 Price Contingencies                                       1.16
                        Total Project Costs               28.02         13.33
                  Total Financing Required                28.02         13.33




                                                - 22 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               8.50               0.80               0.20             0.70              10.20
                                      (7.70)             (0.80)             (0.20)           (0.00)             (8.70)
2. Goods                               5.70               0.00               0.60             5.80              12.10
                                      (5.70)             (0.00)             (0.45)           (0.00)             (6.15)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00               1.70             1.10              2.80
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (1.70)           (0.00)             (1.70)
Fellowships and Training               0.00               0.00               0.40             1.02              1.42
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.40)           (0.00)             (0.40)
Recurrent Expenditures                 0.00               0.00               0.10             1.40              1.50
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.10)           (0.00)             (0.10)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   Total                               14.20              0.80               3.00             10.02             28.02
                                      (13.40)            (0.80)             (2.85)           (0.00)            (17.05)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               1.95              0.00             0.00              1.95
                                      (0.00)             (1.76)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.76)
2. Goods                               6.77               0.08              0.79             0.00              7.64
                                      (6.77)             (0.08)            (0.79)            (0.00)           (7.64)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              2.62             0.00              2.62
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.60)            (0.00)           (2.60)
Fellowships and Training               0.00               0.00              0.33             0.00              0.33
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.33)            (0.00)           (0.33)
Recurrent Expenditures                 0.00               0.00              0.15             0.00              0.15
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.04)            (0.00)           (0.04)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.64              0.64
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               6.77               2.03              3.89             0.64             13.33
                                      (6.77)             (1.84)            (3.76)            (0.00)           (12.37)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 23 -

Project Costs by Financiers (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                          Govt.     IDA      USAID      Italy      UK      Other  Total

A. National Capacity          0.08     0.61       0.10     0.87      0.45       -    2.11
Building

B. Governance and             0.07     1.26          -         -        -       -    1.33
Management of Health
System in Tirana

C. Tirana Health Service      2.20    14.62          -     5.24         -    1.95   24.01
Delivery

D. Project Management         0.02     0.55          -         -        -       -    0.57

Total                         2.37    17.04       0.10     6.11      0.45    1.95  28.02



Project Costs by Financiers (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                          Govt.     IDA      USAID      Italy      UK      Other  Total

A. National Capacity          0.02     1.11                                          1.13
Building

B. Governance and             0.02     0.95                                          0.97
Management of Health
System in Tirana

C. Tirana Health Service      0.15     9.51                                          9.66
Delivery

D. Project Management         0.13     0.79                                          0.92

E. VAT                        0.64                                                   0.64

Total                         0.96    12.37                                        13.33




                                               - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/15/1996                3    HEALTH ECONOMIST (1)
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              11/04/1996                5    HEALTH ECONOMIST (1)
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (2)
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              02/17/1997                6    HEALTH ECONOMIST (1)
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (2)
                                             STAFF ASSISTANT (1)
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/12/1997                4    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
                                             STAFF ASSISTANT (1)
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              11/30/1997                2    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              02/03/1998                3    HEALTH SPECIALIST (2)
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              05/15/1999                2    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);           S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              06/08/2000                4    SENIOR HEALTH SPECIALI           S               S
                                             (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPECIALI (1); OPERATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/15/2000                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               S
                                             SENIOR OPER. OFFICER (1);
                                             LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SENIOR
                                             FIN.MANAG.SPEC. (1)
              12/15/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               S
                                             PROJECTS OFFICER (1); SR
                                             FINANCIAL OFFICER (1)
              10/07/2001                6    LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST           S               S
                                             (1); HEALTH MIS (1);
                                             HOSPITAL ARCHITECT (1);



                                              - 26 -

                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                 FMS (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
               10/07/2001                   4    LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST                 S              S
                                                 (1); FMS (1); OPERATIONS
                                                 OFFICER (1);
                                                 IMPLEMENTATION/PAS (1)
               04/27/2003                   3    TEAM LEADER (1);                       S              S
                                                 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                 (1)
               07/25/2003                   5    LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST                 S              S
                                                 (1); SR. HD ECONOMIST (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                 PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                                                 (1); JPA (1)
               01/15/2004                   3    SR. ECONOMIST/TTL (1);                 S              S
                                                 HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               06/16/2004                   5    TTL/SR. ECONOMIST (1);                 U              U
                                                 HEALTH FAC.. ARCHITECT
                                                 (1); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
                                                 SPECIALIST (1); JPA (1);
                                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  33.0                          115.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        5.8                           20.4
  Supervision                               168.7                           284.1
  ICR                                          3.3                           22.6
  Total                                     210.8                           442.7
Note: Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiations are estimates as SAP data is not available.




                                                 - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Albania Health System Recovery and Development Project, May
14, 1998.

2. Hospital Management Study, Metis, June 2001.

3. Health Services Financing Study, Barents Group/KPMG, June 2001.

4. Plan for the University Hospital Center of Tirana, Public Assistance -- Hospitals of Paris (APHP),
December 2006.

5. Aides Memoire, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports.




                                                  - 30 -

- 31 -

