E559
MACEDONIA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT CHAPTER
GUIDELINES ON ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEDURES
FOR
THE OPERATIONAL MANUAL
February 28, 2002


﻿i
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.    Introduction                                                   1
2.    Environmental Regulations in Macedonia                         1
3.    CDP Environmental Policy                                       3
4.    Environmental Assessment at Different Stages of the Project Cycle  3
ANNEXES
1.    Stages of the Microproject Cycle                              7
2.    Desk Preliminary Environmental Assessment Checklist           12
3.    Field Preliminary Environmental Assessment Checklist          14
4.    Environmental Protection and Mitigation Measures Checklist    17
5.    Final Environmental Assessment Checklist                     24
6.    Field Inspection Checklist                                   25
7.    Environmental Management Plan Format                         26


﻿MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT OPERATIONAL MANUAL
Draft Chapter -- : Guidelines on Environmental Procedures'
1. Introduction
These Guidelines are intended for use by CDP PIU staff, local communities and
implementing agencies, engineers, environmental consultants, and other interested
parties. Specifically, the guidelines are designed to assist all those who are working on a
microproject, helping him/her, at each stage, to ensure that environmental concerns are
duly incorporated in the project design and implementation.
Environmental concerns will be mitigated in the selection and implementation of
microprojects. This chapter of the Operational Manual (OM) of the project lays out
procedures and implementation arrangements for ensuring full consideration of
environmental safeguards, in accordance with the Bank's environmental assessment
guidelines. It describes existing environmental regulations and standards relevant to the
project and make reference to institutions at the local and national levels responsible for
issuing permits, licenses, and enforcing compliance of environmental standards. The
chapter also provides detailed guidelines for the CDP PIU staff and the project
proponents on environmental screening, appraisal, and monitoring applied to the
microprojects. Each microproject will be individually screened and reviewed by the CDP
PIU - by specific type - for any negative impacts, mitigations measures (a sample EMP
will be included in the OM for those projects with more complex environmental impacts).
The microproject proposal will incorporate an environmental review checklist, and the
microproject appraisal document will adapt type-specific analysis, costs, and mitigation
measures. Training will be provided to technical specialists in the CDP PIU to carry out
the evaluation and monitoring of microprojects according to agreed environmental
standards.
The main part of the guidelines relates to recommendations/requirements on the
environmental assessment at different stages of the community based microproject cycle.
It contains also recommendations on possible/obligatory mitigation measures. Checklists
are important tools to be used for environmental assessment, however expert's reports
and recommendations are the main outcome at each stage. The expert/engineer prepares
the report using his expertise and specific results of his desk and field investigations of
the proposed comnmunity based microproject.
2. Environmental Regulations in Macedonia
There is currently no Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) legislation but rather a
number of various laws and regulations which form the basis for the protection of the
environment and which are mainly laws from former Yugoslavia which need to be
updated. These include :
1 Note: In the final version of the Operational Manual, Annex 1 relating to the Microproject Cycle will be
presented as a separate chapter, and Annexes 2 through 7 will be renumbered and presented at the end of
the Operational Manual.


﻿2
Law on Environment and Nature Protection (1996)
Law on Protection of the Ohrid, Prespa and Dojran Lakes (1977)
Law on National Park Conservation (1980)
Law on Spatial and Urban Planning (1996)
Law on Forests (1997)
Law on Waters (1998)
Law on Investment Structure construction (1990)
Law on Geological Research and Mineral Raw Material Exploitation (1988)
Law on Protection against Fire (1986)
Law on Meadow and Pasture Management and Usage (1974)
The European Union (EU) is currently supporting the strengthening of the Ministry of
Environment Preservation which will, in particular, assist the revision of the Law on the
Environment and finalization of a legislation on the Environmental Impact Assessment, a
new Law on Waste, legislation on hazardous waste and revision of the nature
conservation laws and regulations. The development of the legislation on EIA, in fact,
has been required as part of the EU approximation process. To date the EIAs are carried
out only when required by the external donors.
According to the Final Report on Strategic Environmental Policy Assessment for
Macedonia, prepared by UNEP at request of the UNDP (September 2001), the
enforcement of existing environmental legislation is weak, with divided competencies
and an over-stretched, under-resourced and politically vulnerable State Environmental
Inspectorate. The decision-making and law enforcement system is poorly adapted for
dealing with environmental matters with little or no public access to decision making and
poor access to justice, notwithstanding obligations under the Asrhus Convention.
There are a number of Government ministries, which have a role in environment
protection in Macedonia. These ministries are the following: Ministry of Environment,
Ministry of Urbanization and Construction, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water
Economy, Ministry of Health, and the Hydro meteorological Institute. Each of these
agencies are responsible for the issuance of sector specific permits and licenses. Their
branch offices located in the municipalities are also empowered to issues such permits
and licenses at the local level. Building codes, permits, and worker safety rules regulate
construction activities. However there are no specific guidelines on the use of asbestos or
lead paint, health hazards, or waste disposal from small and medium businesses.
Since no EIA regulations are currently in place, and therefore the project cannot rely on
existing institutional capacity to perform  EIA functions, the screening of project
proposals and the assessment of their environmental impact and proposed mitigation
measures will have to be carried by the entities responsible for the implementation of
microprojects (local working groups and the CDP PIU).
A simple screening of microproject proposals will determine what type of environmental
assessment is required, based on a microproject typology. Most microprojects are likely
to require no environmental assessment or a simple environmental review based on a


﻿3
checklist that identifies the environmental impacts and proposes mitigation measures.
The checklist will be completed by the proposing association and will be reviewed by the
local committee appraising microprojects. Environmental Management Plans (EMPs)
may be developed for particular microprojects and sites if necessary (see Annex 7).
3. CDP Environmental Policy
All community based projects that will be implemented by CDP PIU have to be in
compliance with local environmental rules and regulations, as well as with environmental
policy of the World Bank. According to both local and internationally recognized
regulations, at certain points of the microproject preparation and implementation cycle
environmental assessment (EA) and monitoring are required.
Community Implementation Committees (i.e. local government officials and citizens of
communities) and municipal governments will be the key stakeholders of community
infrastructure projects.  Stakeholders will be consulted on a case-by-case basis,
depending on the nature of the proposed project, during the screening process, during the
development of plans to address potential environmental impacts, and during
microproject supervision to assess environmental aspects of microprojects. Typically,
CDP promotion staff and appraisal engineers will hold discussions on-site with the
community diring screening and both the community and the municipality in preparing
and reviewing environmental assessments and EMPs if and when required. When
possible, experts within the municipality will participate directly in the preparation of
environmental assessments and plans. Communities must obtain all necessary permits
and clearances from the municipality before final approval by the CDP PIU of any
project proposal. During project implementation, follow-up engineers will monitor the
quality of works, including environmental standards, of a number of selected projects of a
different typology.
The coverage and depth of the EA process depend on the nature, scale and potential
impact of a proposed microproject. It is anticipated that CDP-funded community
microprojects, as a rule, will not trigger a full-scale environmental impact assessment
process. The EA is broad in scope and takes into account the natural environment as well
as human health and socio-cultural aspects, focusing in on those issues and potential
impacts that are determined as critical for a community based project's environmental
soundness and sustainability. The EA runs in parallel with the process of identifying a
potential community based microproject, designing it, and implementing it.
Key considerations to be taken into account during EA process include:
* compliance with existing environmental regulations in Macedonia;
* linkages with social assessment;
* analysis of alternatives;
* public participation and consultation with affected people and NGOs; and
* disclosure of information
Like economic, financial, institutional and engineering analysis, EA is part of project
preparation and therefore is the project proponent's responsibility.


﻿4
4. Environmental Assessment at Different Stages of the Project Cycle
The stages of the microproject cycle are defined in the CDP Operational Manual (see
Annex 1). Upon completion of each stage of the project cycle, specific forms are to be
filled in by the authorized staff, including sections of environmental evaluations. To
assure that environmental analysis was performed in a comprehensive manner, specific
checklists for different types of community based projects must be used by engineers
and/or environmental experts, and, if necessary, involve other consultants.
The three stages of the environmental assessment during the microproject cycle are:
* Preliminary Appraisal Stage
* Final Appraisal Stage
* Implementation Stage
4.1 Environmental Assessment at Preliminary Appraisal Stage
The goals of the preliminary environmental assessment are:
-  to collect evidence that the proposed community based project does not violate
existing environmental regulations;
-  to evaluate potential adverse environmental impacts;
-  to highlight the need of specific prevention and/or mitigation measures;
-  to make recommendations on the level of environmental efforts at further stages
of the project.
The steps of the preliminary environmental assessment are:
-  Carry out desk environmental assessment using available documentation for the
microproject (see Annex 2)
-  Visit the project site and carry on field preliminary environmental assessment (see
Annex 3)
-  Analyze affected environment, potential impacts and prepare recommendations
on mitigation measures (see Annex 4)
The technical appraisal team is expected to:
-  Assess the affected environment
-  Investigate land use and resources use restrictions in the project area
-  Check that the microproject proposal complies with other environmental laws and
regulations
-  Estimate a range and a scale of potential environmental impacts
-  Make recommendations on the need for specific prevention and/or mitigation
measures;
-  Make recommendations on the level of environmental assessment at the
community based project preparation stage
-  Assess the need and make recommendations on the involvement of environmental
consultant
Results of Environmental Assessment are summarized in the section 7 of the Final
Appraisal Report (see sample below).
Possible statements (Section 7.1):


﻿5
-  No significant environmental impacts are anticipated
-  Possible adverse environmental impacts
-  Proposed microproject violates existing environmental regulations
- Community based project will lead to positive environmental impacts
Evaluation is complemented by written comments and recommendations, including:
- Brief description of affected environment;
-  Brief description of potential impacts;
- Recommendations on:
Involving environmental consultant(s);
Desirability of considering alternative technical, siting and other solutions;
The need of specific prevention and/or mitigation measures;
The desired level of environmental assessment and public involvement at
further stages.
4.2 Environmental Assessment at Final Appraisal Stage
The goals of the environmental assessment at Final Appraisal Stage are:
-  to check that the project design and other relevant documentation have all the
necessary permits and approvals and does not violate existing environmental
regulations;
-  in case of potential adverse environmental impact to check that appropriate
prevention and mitigation measures have been planned and necessary resources
have been allocated to implement them;
-  to make recommendations on the level and mechanisms of environmental
monitoring at further stages of the community based project.
The steps of the final environmental assessment are:
-  Visit the project site and carry out field assessment, including participation in a
public meeting(s). Meet with the Implementing Agency and if necessary, with
technical design team;
-  Compare results and recommendations of the Preliminary Environmental
Assessment with project documentation; make sure that necessary environmental
permits (including land use, resource use, dumping of debris, and sanitary
inspection) and approvals are in place (Annex 5);
-  Fill in section 7 of Final Appraisal Report (see sample below).
The environmental appraisal team/engineer is expected to:
-  Examine the project documentation to check that:
-  environmental assessment was performed in accordance with regulations and
that it followed the recommendations of the preliminary environmental
assessment;
-  the documentation includes all the necessary permits and approvals;
-  appropriate prevention and mitigation measures have been planned and
necessary resources have been allocated, or an alternative decision was made


﻿6
(and supported with necessary documents) that makes such measures
unnecessary;
- the project documentation and findings of the final site visit have been
presented to public and that the project does not create public objections;
- Make recommendations on the level and mechanisms of environmental
monitoring on construction and operational stages
Findings of the Final Environmental Assessment are summarized in "Conclusions on the
Results of Environmental Assessment" (Section 7 of the Final Appraisal Report).
Sample Section 7
7.1   Main conclusion ofEnvironmental Assessment
- Improvement of environment
- No significant environmental impacts
- Potential adverse environmental impacts, adequate mitigation measures, confirmed
by positive decisions of environmental authorities
- Adverse environmental impacts, project in compliance with regulations, but
mitigation measures are insufficient, unrealistic and/or very expensive
- Negative decision of a competent environmental protection authority
7.2   Brief description ofpotential adverse environmental impacts, as appropriate
7.3   Incorporation of necessary prevention and mitigation measures
7.4   Conclusion that all necessary approvals and permits are in place.
7.5   Conclusion on the necessity/desirability of environmental monitoring by CDP
PIU at construction/operational stages
7.6   Conclusion  on  implementation  of the  community  based project, or
recommendation to consider other alternatives, or recommendation to conduct further
environmental investigations.
4.3 Environmental Monitoring at the Implementation Stage (construction and
operational)
At the construction and operational stage, the main goal of environmental specialists is to
monitor proper implementation of environmental protection and mitigation measures
prescribed by the project design documents, as well as to monitor prompt liquidation or
mitigation of unexpected adverse environmental impacts.
To achieve this goal, CDP PIU staff and local supervising engineer should use the list of
key environmental protection and mitigation measures prepared at the Final Appraisal
stage. They should also use Field Inspection Checklist (Annex 6).
In case the project fails to meet environmental protection requirements, the local
supervisor shall report to the community based project supervisor.


﻿7
Annex 1
STAGES OF THE MICROPROJECT CYCLE
1. Submission of Microproject Proposals
Based on discussions with CDP PIU staff, implementing agencies will formulate
microproject initiatives. The CDP PIU will only accept those proposals, which were
identified, elaborated and submitted by the benefiting community, with whom
discussions have taken place.
All proposals must be filled out on the Microproject Proposal Forms distributed during
the promotional and training activities. The CDP PIU microproject Proposal Forms
include all the issues which need to be addressed for the proposal to be forwarded into the
appraisal phase. If the submitted proposal is incomplete and additional information is
needed, the CDP PIU will provide the requesting entity with the necessary technical
assistance. The CDP PIU will also carry out a desk environmental assessment (see
Annex 2). If the proposal is acceptable, the CDP PIU enters the submitted proposal in the
microproject portfolio database of the MIS along with the following information: the
name of the requested microproject, the region, the location of the proposed microproject,
the requesting group and contact person, date received, amount of requested funding, and
type of the proposed microproject. The original proposal is kept in the main files of the
CDP.
2. Microproject Preliminary Criteria
The CCP PIU Officer verifies whether the microproject proposal meets preliminary
selection criteria, namely: the microproject typology, community support and
microproject cost.
To meet the microproject typology, please refer to ----of the OM. To meet the
preliminary community support criteria, community participation must be clearly and
distinctly reflected in the proposal. The level of community participation is considered
acceptable in cases when the community summons a meeting where there is a minimum
participation of the population, (Refer to ----of the OM).
The CDP P1I Officer must have been present at the community meeting. Minutes of the
community meeting should be enclosed in the proposal, together with the list of
participants and their signatures. In particular, if tagh meetings were held, the participants
must write their names and the taghs they represent.
The microproject cost must not exceed the maximum of US$150,000. The only
exception to this limit will be a ceiling of $200,000 for new school constructions that
include heating systems.


﻿8
The CDP PIU compiles the proposals received from the communities for one month after
the completion of promotion activities in each region.
If the proposal fails to meet these three preliminary selection criteria, the CDP PIU will
reject the proposal. The rejection along with the justification are written up, approved by
the Executive Committee and signed by the Executive Director. The letter is sent within
five days of the decision to reject the proposal.
If a microproject proposal comes into the CDP PIU following the CDP Executive
Committee's promotion deadline of the specific area (rural or urban), it is automatically
rejected. The rejection along with the justification are written up, approved by the
Executive Committee and signed by the Executive Director. It is sent within five days of
the late submission of the microproject proposal.
Proposals are not to be classified by the CDP PIU but are simply checked to ensure they
are complete and that they meet the preliminary criteria. If the proposal meets these
conditions, then it is forwarded to the Appraisal Unit.
3. Microproject Appraisal
Appraisal Prioritization
The Appraisal Unit will appraise microproject proposals by region, and within the
region, it will appraise rural and each urban area separately. The Appraisal Unit will
adhere to the Executive Committee's first stage appraisal deadline for the rural and urban
areas of the region. The Appraisal Unit will appraise all the project proposals passed to it
by the CDP PIU. The Head of the Appraisal Unit is responsible for distributing the
proposals to the different appraisal engineers.
Every microproject proposal in each urban area and the rural area of a region will
undergo preliminary appraisal. In every urban area and in the rural area of the region, all
the microproject proposals will be scored and then ranked. The microproject proposals
that receive the highest CDP preliminary appraisal score will undergo complete appraisal.
Site Visit and Microproject Preliminary Appraisal
The Appraisal Engineer (AE) makes a preliminary examination of the proposal in the
office and determines what is needed for the site visit. The purpose of the site visit is to
verify the existing information on file and gather complementary data needed for the
preliminary and final appraisal report. The AE informs the IA contact person of the date
of the site visit and identifies the preparations necessary for the site visit.
During the site visit the AE:
-   completes the Preliminary Appraisal Report which corresponds to the particular type
of the microproject;


﻿9
- recommends any changes to the proposal to better meet the appraisal criteria.
Particular attention should be paid to the exclusive appraisal criteria described
below;
- determines whether the proposed microproject is the most effective solution to the
problem identified by the community;
- determines whether the community, local government or implementing agency can
appropriate the necessary funds for the future operation and maintenance of the
infrastructure facility; and
- carry out a preliminary environmental assessment (see Annex 3).
The appraisal engineer will provide a preliminary appraisal for each microproject
proposal.
Following this preliminary appraisal of all the microproject proposals within the region,
the appraisal unit will score and then prioritize based on this scoring all the microproject
proposals. The criteria to be scored are the preliminary appraisal criteria . The appraisal
engineer will also analyze the affected environment, potential impacts and prepare
recommendations on mitigation measures (see Annex 4). It is at this stage that the
proposal has undergone the Preliminary Appraisal.
The CDP Executive Committee will select the highest ranked microprojects after the
preliminary appraisal reasonably over-covering the total allocation for the region. The
remaining microprojects will be automatically rejected. A rejection letter is drawn up by
the Appraisal Unit, approved by the Executive Committee and signed by the Executive
Director.
Within one week of the preliminary appraisal of a region, the CDP will send the scores
and ranking to the World Bank.
Final Appraisal
Based on the funds available for the rural area within a region, or for each urban area
within the region, the appraisal unit will then carry out a final appraisal of the
microproject proposals that have received the highest rankings within that area. The
final appraisal will compare results and recommendations of the Preliminary
Environmental Assessment with project documentation; make sure that necessary
environmental permits and approvals are in place (Annex 5);
Section 7 of Final Appraisal Report will be completed.
The Procurement unit is responsible for hiring a project-designer to design the plans for
the project. The consultant is hired based on procedures described in Part -- C para --.
from a pre-qualified list of consultant project-designers kept by the Appraisal Unit. The
terms of the contract with the project-designer state that if the project is finally
approved, then the project designer will also carry out the design supervision of the
project during implementation.


﻿10
The project-designer must have related professional education, be licensed, and have at
least three years of related employment experience. The cost for the project-designer's
services will not exceed 5% of the total cost of the microproject.
The Head of the Appraisal Unit may arrive at a decision of provisional acceptance of a
microproject provided that technical study is to be carried out. The recommendations
for technical study, particularly in technically complex microprojects, should be sent to
the Head of the Microproject Department for approval.
As a standard procedure, technical studies will be financed under the category of
technical assistance and training, and will be included as part of the microproject
budget.
Based on the approved designs, the Estimation Unit will create the bill of quantities for
the project, using the compound price database of the MIS.
At the completion of the site visits, the Appraisal Engineer prepares the final Appraisal
Report in the office. The appraisal report contains assessments for each aspect of the
microproject along with the approved project design. The Head of the Appraisal Unit
examines the report and approves the conclusions. If the project receives an approval,
then the Head of the Appraisal Unit then forwards it to the Head of the Microproject
Department, who approves the results. If the project is refused, then the Head of the
Appraisal Unit writes a rejection letter, which is then signed by the Microproject
Department, approved by the Executive Committee and signed by the Executive Director.
The signature of the Microproject Department Head is the last instance of intervention by
the Appraisal Unit.
The approved projects signed by the Head of the Microproject Department is then
submitted to the Executive Committee for its approval.
4. Microproject Appraisal Criteria
In making a preliminary appraisal of the microproject, the Appraisal Unit is guided by
the exclusive and evaluation criteria (See below). If the microproject fails to meet the
exclusive criteria, the Head of the Appraisal Unit will reject the proposal. The Head of
the Microproject Department will prepare the letter, the Executive Committee will
approve it, and the Executive Director will sign the letter to the IA, justifying the
rejection. The proposal then enters the list of rejected proposals in the MIS database.
The evaluation criteria are essential for the qualitative assessment of a project: for the
Preliminary Appraisal. If the project meets the exclusive criteria, the microproject
design may be modified in consultation with the community to fulfil necessary
evaluation criteria.
Exclusive Appraisal Criteria


﻿11
For a microproject proposal to be appraised at the preliminary stage, it must meet the
following exclusive criteria.
(a) Preliminary Selection Criteria. The microproject must meet the preliminary
selection criteria described in the Operational Manual, namely: microproject typology,
community support and cost.
(b) Lack of basic infrastructure. The microproject must be located in the area where
the community lacks appropriate basic infrastructure.
5. Project Monitoring
As part of project monitoring, the CDP PIU staff and the local supervising engineer will
complete a Field Inspection Checklist (see Annex 6).


﻿12
Annex 2
DESK PRELIMINARY ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST
If the Community based project Proposal doesn't contain all the necessary information
for the desk appraisal, please obtain it during the field appraisal.
Issues of land and resource use, environmental permits and licenses
*  Are there land use permits in place?
*  Will there be a need for use of resources? If yes, specify.
*  During construction and operational stages, will the project activity use any resources
that need permits or licenses (forest use, water use, gravel for road construction etc).
Are these permits in place?
Project site description
* Is there full information about current land users/owners? If no, list what is missing.
* Does any part of the project site fall under specific environmental regulations, e.g.
nature reserve protected area, or national park?
* Does the project fall under regulations of specific law
Potential environmental impacts and compliance with environmental regulations
*  Will any wastes be generated during construction/operational/closure stages of the
project? Are any of these waste toxic/hazardous? Methods of
decommissioning/treatment.
*  Will the project create any emissions?
*  Will the project create/increase risks of natural or ethnogeny disasters (landslides,
flooding, avalanches etc).
*  Please describe expected disturbance and nuisance produce during construction and
operation (soil, waterways, flora, fauna, noise etc)
*  Does the project activity fall under the nature protection category?
Relevant Environmental Regulatory Authorities (Provide name, address, contact.
Collect missing information during the site visit)
*  Local authority that has project site/activities under its jurisdiction. Is there
environmental specialist?
*  Environmental protection authority
*  Sanitary-Epidemiological Station


﻿13
* Forestry authority; Nature reserve, park (if applicable)
* Any other environmental protection authority


﻿14
Annex 3
FIELD PRELIMINARY ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST
Location
* Obtain a site map, or make a sketch of the site plan.
* Mark the location of the site on a map of the local area, or indicate the geographical
impact area
Site Survey Questionnaire
Current activity and site history
* Who is the site contact? Name, position, contact
* What is the site size (m2) that will be used for project activities?
* What is the current use of the site? Provide a brief overview.
* What were previous uses of the site? Give names and dates, if possible.
Environmental Location
*  Are there any sensitive habitats nearby? e.g. nature reserves protected areas, historical
landmarks etc.
*  Is anything known about the geology/hydrogeology beneath the site? Are there water
courses on the site?
*  Does the site contain any slopes? If yes, describe (hills, ravines etc.).
*  Is the site located on a floodplain? In water-protection area?
*  Does the site ever experience flooding? Landslides? Are there signs of water logging,
bogging, water erosion?
*  What are neighbors to the site? e.g. dwellings, fields, industries, schools,
watercourses. Estimate distance if possible
*  Will transportation be impacted?
*  Neighbor land users. Are there nature reserves, protected territories, historic
monuments, etc.


﻿15
Environmental Licenses/Pollution Control
*  Does the site require any permits/licenses issued by regulatory authorities to operate?
Such as for air emissions, noise, water intake and discharge, waste disposal. Are
copies available?
* What environmental authorities are in charge of control? Names, addresses, contact
(in case there is not enough information from desk evaluation).
Water Quality Issues
*  Does the site use water for any purposes? If yes, give details.
*  Does the site produce any effluent? If yes, give details, e.g. how much and where
does it go
*  Is there a drainage system on site for surface water and / or sewage effluent? Is a plan
available?
*  How is waste water managed (wells, septic tanks)
Potential for Soil disturbance and Contamination
* What is the ground surface like at the site? (e.g. agricultural land, forest etc.)
* Will the project activities damage the soil during construction/operational stages?
* Will the project activities change landscape significantly (e.g. draining wetland areas,
changing water courses)?
Biological environment
*  Describe the type of vegetation on the site.
*  Is there any information about rare/protected species of fauna and flora (e.g. Red
book species?)? If yes, is there a risk to the species?
*  Obtain or create a listing of mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, natural plants and common
cultivated plants in the area.
*  List the negative impacts to be expected or anticipated if the project initiated.
Visual Inspection Procedure
Points to remember while walking about:
* Try and get a site plan (or sketch one) so you can mark details on it
* Take plenty of photos if you have permission


﻿16
* Walk over as much of the site as possible, including the boundary, to see if outside
activities are affecting the site, or if site activities will affect neighbors
* Make notes of any odors, smoke or dust emissions, water spills etc.


﻿17
Annex 4
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND MITIGATION MEASURES CHECKLIST
PRIMARY HEALTH FACILITY MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                     Impacts                               Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                     Contamination from waste materials       Protection of soil surfaces during construction;
(construction and medical)               control and daily cleaning of construction sites;
provision of adequate waste disposal services
Water Resources           Clogging of drainage works               Special attention to drainage; proper disposal of
Decline in water quality due to          oil and other hazardous materials; adequate
contamination                            sanitation and disposal system for waste
Introduction of hazardous wastes
Air Quality               Dust during construction                 Dust control by water or other means; appropriate
Degraded interior air quality (caused by  design and siting subproject
construction works, evaporation from
medicines and chemical substances)
Odor problems
Acoustic Environment      Noise disturbance of natural habitats    Restrict construction to certain hours
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats          Disturbance of natural habitats          Minimize loss of natural vegetation during
construction; consideration of alternative sites;
Fauna and Flora           Loss or degradation of vegetation        various special measures for alternative sites;
Disruption or destruction of wildlife    various special measures for sensitive species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape  Debris                                   Cleaning-up of construction sites; provision of
adequate solid waste disposal systems
Historical/Cultural Sites
Degradation of sites                     Consideration of alternative sites; special
Disturbance to structures                measures to project buildings and other cultural
resources/areas
Human Health
Construction accidents                   Specify designed systems fore disposal of
Medical wastes from health posts         medical waste
Human Communities
Involuntary resettlement                 Compensation per OD 4.20; good siting;
Losses of buildings, property, or economic  community participation in environmental
livelihood                               assessment
Disruption due to greater traffic loads


﻿18
EDUCATION FACILITY MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                      Impacts                                  Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                     Contamination from waste materials         Protection of soil surfaces during construction;
control and daily cleaning of construction sites;
provision of adequate waste disposal services
Water Resources            Clogging of drainage works              Special attention to drainage; proper disposal of oil and
Decline in water quality due to         other hazardous materials; adequate sanitation and
contamination                           disposal system for waste
Introduction of hazardous wastes
Air Quality                Dust during construction                Dust control by water or other means; appropriate design
Degraded interior air quality (caused by  and siting subproject
construction works)
Odor problems
Acoustic Environment      Noise disturbance of natural habitats    Restrict Construction to certain hours
Biolozical Environment
Natural Habitats          Disturbance of natural habitats          Restrict Construction to certain hours
Fauna and Flora           Loss or degradation of vegetation          Minimize loss of natural vegetation during
Disruption or destruction of wildlife      construction; consideration of alternative sites;
various special measures for alternative sites; various
special measures for sensitive species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and           Debris                                    Cleaning-up of construction sites; provision of adequate
Landscape                                                          solid waste disposal systems
Historical/Cultural Sites  Degradation of sites                    Consideration of alternative sites; special measures to
Disturbance to structures                 project buildings and other cultural resources/areas
Human Health              Construction accidents                   Specify safety measures
Human Communities        Involuntary resettlement                  Compensation per OD 4.20; good siting; community
Losses of buildings, property, or economic  participation in environmental assessment
livelihood
Disruption due to greater traffic loads


﻿JF
19
WATER RELATED MICROPROJECTS
A. WATER SUPPLYMICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                     Impacts                               Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                     Degradation of soil cover                Protection during construction; re-vegetation or
physical stabilization services
Water Resources           Contamination of water resources         Adequate protection form livestock; minimal
Over-exploitation of aquifers           distance from human settlements and agricultural
Inadequate wastewater disposal          areas; regional water use planning; proper drainage
Introduction to hazardous wastes        near pumping stations; community participation;
Creation of stagnant water pools        link to sanitation micro-projects
Acoustic Environment      Noise disturbance from pump if near a    Siting studies
home
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats           Disturbance of natural habitats         Siting studies
Fauna and Flora            Loss or degradation of vegetation       Siting studies; protection of vegetation during
Disruption or destruction of wildlife   construction
Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape   Marred landscapes                       Cleaning-up of construction sites
Debris
Human Health
Waterbome diseases                      Correct design and adequate training; testing
Chemical imbalances in delivery system  procedures
Human Communities         Involuntary resettlement                 Compensation per OD 4.20
Loss of buildings or property


﻿20
WATER RELATED MICROPROJECTS
B. SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                    Impacts                              Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment      Increase of soil erosion               Proper siting of irrigation suprojects; extension
Soils                     Soil water-logging as a result of improper  and training in crop selection and agricultural
drainage                               technology; careful design and appropriate
Increased salinization                 selection of irrigation systems; adequate drainage
Water quality degradation in ponds and  Control of agrochemical use; proper design of
Water Resources           reservoirs                             canals; monitoring of water quality; operation and
Deoxygenation of receiving water       maintenance plan; regional water use plans
Clogging of canals from weeds
Inefficient water flow because of heavy
sedimentation
Degradation of water systems receiving
irrigation waters by nutrients,
agrochemicals and salts
Depletion of aquifers from over-
exploitation
Disturbances to flow regimes
Biological Environment    Disturbance of natural habitats        Consideration of alternative sites; select
Natural Habitats          Disturbance of protected areas         appropriate design and crops
Algae blooms, proliferation of aquatic  Provision of corridors of habitat for movement of
Fauna and Flora           weeds                                  animals
Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment        Risk of waterbome diseases from artificial  Education in proper sanitation and health
Human Health              water flows                            practices; avoidance of stagnant waters; adequate
Disease transmission from human and    treatment of irrigation waters; careful management
animal waste deposits in irrigation waters  of pesticides; integrated pest management (IPM)
used on agriculture                    programs; protection of canals from livestock
Toxicity of pesticides
Involuntary resettlement               Adequate compensation as per OD 4.20; good
Human Communities         Loss of property                       consultation and participation with affected
Conflicts over water use rights        communities; consideration of cumulative impacts
Multiple land use demands on restricted  Political and social problems associated with
water sources                          upstream land use and pollutant discharges


﻿21
WATER RELATED MICROPROJECTS
C. DOMESTIC WASTE WA TER SEWA GE MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                     Impacts                               Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment       Degradation of soil cover               Erosion control during construction
Soils
Point soil pollution at discharge of pipe  Select appropriate technology for wastewater
Water Resources           Water quality degradation               treatment; settling pond, screens, or aeration
(Deoxygenation) in receiving surface    systems; siting studies; incorporation into larger
waters                                  wastewater systems; adequate training in
Contamination of subsurface water       maintenance of latrines or disposal systems;
resources                               alternative siting; monitoring programs
Biological Environment     Disturbance of natural habitats         Alternative site
Natural Habitats
Loss or degradation of vegetation       Alternative site
Fauna and Flora           Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment        Unpleasant odors                        Include odor-control technology in design
Aesthetics and Landscape
Disease transmission                    Select appropriate technology; training and
Human Health              Accident risk during construction        monitoring programs, community participation,
Sewer gas leaks                         operation and maintenance plans
Improper use of night soil from
composting toilets
Impacts may be concentrated downstream  Adequate consultation and participation of all
Human Communities         in other communities                     potentially affected communities


﻿22
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                     Impacts                              Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment      Point-source pollution from landfill    Adequate siting studies; good design standards;
Soils                     Seepage of contaminants into aquifers   consideration of alternative sites; ensure adequate
Contamination from clandestine dumping  drainage; community participation; training
Particulate contamination from burning  Spread and cover garbage at landfill site; prohibit
garbage                                 or minimize burning design and siting subproject
Air Quality               Increase in haze and smog
Biological Environment    Disturbance or loss of natural habitats  Adequate siting studies
Natural Habitats
Loss or degradation of vegetation       Adequate siting studies
Fauna and Flora           Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment        Unpleasant odors                        Provide complete collection and disposal service;
Aesthetics and Landscape  Marred landscapes near landfill site    pilot collection systems; cost recuperation; proper
Garbage littered about in towns from    design of collection or disposal systems; recycling
inefficient collection services         programs; community participation
Methane and other noxious chemicals     Separate disposal system for medical or hazardous
Human Health              emitted                                 wastes; gas recovery systems; safety procedures
Disease transmission from animal and    implemented; training of workers and
insect vectors                          beneficiaries; operation and maintenance plans
Hazardous particulates emitted during
burning
Safety and health hazard from medical
and industrial wastes
Involuntary resettlement                Compensation as per OD 4.20; control of zoning;
Human Communities         Unpleasant living conditions adjacent to  attention to route selection for waste transfer
site (e.g., frequent movement of trucks)  vehicles


﻿23
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW CHECKLIST
Microproject                                      Microproject #
Community                                   Municipality
Does the
Present                         Necessary mitigation    microproject contain
Environmental           Impacts Description of impacts  measures                the necessary
Component                                                                       mitigation measures?
1. Soil Implementation  Yes                                                     Yes__
phase                   No                                                      No _
Exploitation phase      Yes                                                     Yes_
No                                                      No
2. Water Implementation  Yes                                                    Yes
phase                   No                                                      No _
Exploitation phase      Yes                                                     Yes_
No                                                      No_
3. Air Implementation   Yes                                                     Yes_
phase                   No _                                                    No _
Exploitation phase      Yes                                                     Yes_
No                                                      No _
4. Flora and Fauna      Yes                                                     Yes
Implementation phase    No _                                                    No _
Exploitation phase      Yes                                                    Yes___
No                                                      No
5. Esthetics and landscape  Yes                                                 Yes___
Implementation phase    No _                                                    No _
Exploitation phase      Yes                                                     Yes__
No                                                      No
6. Human health         Yes                                                     Yes_
Implementation phase    No                                                      No _
Exploitation phase      Yes                                                     Yes_
No                                                      No
7. Human settlements    Yes                                                     Yes_
Implementation phase    No                                                      No _
Exploitation phase      Yes                                                     Yes_
No                                                      No-
CONCLUSIONS OF THE APPRAISAL ENGINEER with regards to:
1. Scale of impacts on the environment caused by the proposed microproject;
2. Incorporation of obligatory mitigation measures, which were not primarily included in the proposed microproject;
3. Realistic possibility of mitigating the negative impacts;
4. Necessity of applying Limited Environmental Assessment for the microproject;
5. Transfer of microproject to the second phase of appraisal.
Appraisal engineer
Date                                       Signature


﻿24
Annex 5
FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST
(When working on this checklist, please refer to the findings of Preliminary Environmental Appraisal).
Is the project documentation complete? If no, specify what's missing.
Are land use permits in place?
Are resource use permits in place?
Have permits been obtained for dumping of debris?
Is there a sanitary inspection permit?
Is the level of environmental assessment sufficient?
Is the quality of environmental assessment sufficient?
Does the project documentation have approvals of relevant environmental authorities?
Is there a potential for soil degradation/contamination? If yes, are there necessary prevention/mitigation
measures planned and budgeted?
Is there a potential for water degradation/contamination? If yes, are there necessary prevention/mitigation
measures planned and budgeted?
Is there a potential for air contamination? If yes, are there necessary prevention/mitigation measures planned
and budgeted?
Is there a threat to biological environment? If yes, are there necessary prevention/mitigation measures planned
and budgeted?
Is there a potential for adverse impacts on social environment? If yes, are there necessary prevention, mitigation
or compensation measures planned and budgeted?
Was the level of public involvement sufficient? Were the public concerns adequately addressed?
What is the desired level, frequency, scope of environmental monitoring at construction phase?
What is the desired level, frequency, scope of environmental monitoring at operational phase?


﻿25
Annex 6
FIELD INSPECTION CHECKLIST
Have a site plan and project documentation;
Walk over as much of the site as possible, to see if project activities are affecting the site, or if site activities are
affecting neighbors; visit sites where nature protection measures are implemented;
Compare the list of recommended prevention and mitigation measures with activities;
Make notes on the site maintenance;
Meet local people to find out their opinion about the project activities;
Take photos;
Prepare an inspection report and submit it to supervisor.


﻿26
Annex 7
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FORMAT
A. MITIGATION PLAN
Cost                  Institutional         Comments
Responsibility       (e.g. secondary
impacts)
Phase                Issue               Mitigating         Install    Operate      Install     Operate
Measure
Construction      *
*
*
*
*
Operation
*
Decommissioning    *
0


﻿27
B. MONITORING PLAN
Cost                    Responsibility
Phase        What          Where         How          When          Why       Install   Operate     Install   Operate
parameter      is the       is the        is the     Is the
is to be     parameter  parameter to   parameter to  p
monitored?     to be    be monitored/ be monitored- pr
monitored?     type of    frequency of
monitoring   measurement   monitor
equipment?        or       ed
continuous?  (optiona
1) ?
Baseline
Construct
Operate
Decommission


﻿28
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.    Equipment Purchases (Tabular Presentation Preferred)
List:
*  Type of equipment
*  Number of Units
*  Unit cost
*  Total Cost
*  Local or International Purchase
2.    Training/Study Tours
List:
*  Type of Training (Mitigation, Monitoring, Environmental Management, Other)
*  Number of Students
Current and Future Organizational Unit in Which They Work or Current and
Future Title/Job Description
*  Duration of Training
*  Start Date/End Date (for each student)
*  Venue of Training (Domestic or Abroad)
*  Institute or Organization to Provide Training
*  Cost (Local and Foreign)
3.    Consultant Services
*  Type of Service
*  Terms of Reference
*  Justification
*  Cost
4.    Special Studies
*  Justification
*  Terms of Reference
*  Cost


﻿29
D. SCHEDULE
Present (preferably in Chart Form) Start Dates and Finish Dates for:
* Mitigation Activities
* Monitoring Activities
* Training Activities
This information should be on the same chart defining the overall project schedule (Project
Implementation Plan)
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
A narrative discussion supported by organizational charts detailing:
* Responsibilities for mitigation and monitoring
* Environmental information flow (reporting-from who and to who and how often)
* Decision making chain of command for environmental management (to take action,
to authorize expenditures, to shut down, etc.)
In short, how is all the monitoring data going to be used to maintain sound environmental
performance-who collects the data, who analyzes it, who prepares reports, who are the
reports sent to and how often, and who does that person send it to, or what does he/she do
with the information-who has the authority to spend, shutdown, change operations etc.
F. CONSULTATION WITH LOCAL NGOs AND PROJECT-AFFECTED GROUPS
Provide documentation of the following:
* Date(s) consultation(s) was (were) held
* Location(s) consultation(s) was (were) held
* Who was invited
Name, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-mail number/address
(home and/or office)
* Who attended
Name, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-mail number/address
(home and/or office)
* Meeting Program/Schedule
What is to be presented and by whom
* Summary Meeting Minutes (Comments, Questions and Response by Presenters)


﻿30


