Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23720-MK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.1 MILLION
(US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR A
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 3, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Denar
MKD I = US$0.01418
US$1 = 70.54
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS     Country Assistant Strategy            OM        Operational Manual
CDP     Community Development Project         PAD       Project Appraisal Document
CIC     Community Implementing Committee      PCF       Post-Conflict Fund
CICs    Citizen Information Centers          PIU        Project Implementation Unit
ECHO    European Community Humanitarian       PSMAC     Public Sector Management Adjustment
Office                                          Credit
EU      European Union                        SIDA       Swedish Intemational Development Agency
FMS     Financial Management System           SIF        Social Investment Fund
GNP     Gross National Product                TA        Technical Assistance
IDA     Intemational Development Agency       TOR       Terms of Reference
IDPs    Intemally Displaced Persons           TSS       Transitional Support Strategy
IMF     Intemational Monetary Fund            UN        United Nations
IOM     Intemational Organization for Migration  UNDP   United Nations Development Programme
LG      Local Govemment                       UNHCR     United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees
MIS     Management Information System        UNICEF     United Nations Children's Fund
MOF     Ministry of Finance                   USAID     United States Agency for Intemational
Development
NGO     Non-Govemmental Organization
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:   Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director:  Michal J. Rutkowski, ECSHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Caroline Mascarell, ECSHD



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key perfornance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      10
3. Benefits and target population                                                     10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   21
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          21
2. Financial                                                                          22
3. Technical                                                                          23
4. Institutional                                                                      23
5. Environmental                                                                      24
6. Social                                                                             26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 28



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     29
2. Critical risks                                                                     29
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     31
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            31
2. Other: Condition of Disbursement                                                   31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          31
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    40
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         45
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                             46
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               49
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    50
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                         60
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     68
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   69
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  70
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            72
Annex 11: Project Implementation Plan                                                    74
Annex 12: Community Investment Project Typology                                          78
Annex 13: Poverty Targeting Strategy and Allocation of Funds                             80
Annex 14: Local Government Institutional Review                                          85
Annex 15: Environmental Mitigation Measures and Review Checklist                         91
Annex 16: Donor Activities in FYR Macedonia                                              99
MAP(S)
IBRD 28959R



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: May 3, 2002                               Team Leader: Caroline Mascarell
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager/Director: Michal Rutkowski
Project ID: P076712                             Sector(s): MC - Community Action Program
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[1 Loan     [XI Credit    [1 Grant      I Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): US$5 million
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.50%                           Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                           Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                     0.97           0.00         0.97
IDA                                                          3.85           1.15         5.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                            0.59           0.00         0.59
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS                            2.29           0.71         3.00
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                       7.70           1.86         9.56
Borrower: FYR MACEDONIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address: Dame Gruev 14, 1000 Skopje, FYR Macedonia
Contact Person: Mr. Nikola Gruevski, Minister of Finance
Tel: (389-2) 116-012         Fax: (389-2) 117-280          Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
. . . FY   2003       2004      2005      2006
Annual      1.35      1.70      1.50      0.45
Cumulative     1.35      3.05      4.55       5.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objective of the Community Development Project (CDP) is to provide support to the Government
of the former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) of Macedonia in its post-conflict development efforts aimed at
fostering reconciliation amongst its people, reducing social tensions, and building local social capital. To
attain this objective, the focus of the project will be on piloting small-scale community-based initiatives in
selected demonstration communities under an integrated development framework designed to respond to
priority social needs and facilitate the transition from conflict to peace. The project will support a
participatory development process at the local level that is inclusive, gender-sensitive and responsive to
community priorities. Project outputs will consist of infrastructure and services sustained by capacity
building. The project will also support the Government's decentralization initiatives designed to increase the
competencies and accountability of municipal administration, increase the participation of citizens in
decision-making and ultimately, enhance empowerment at the local level. While the primary impact of the
project will be felt locally, the ultimate impact of this investment will be to help fashion a climate of
inclusion and security which will bring different social groups together through common activities and
shared opportunities.
The long-term outcomes of the project will be:
(i) Improvement of the quality, access and availability of community infrastructure and services in poor,
conflict-affected and vulnerable communities.
(ii) Promotion of institution building at the grassroots level by assisting local governments and
communities to plan and manage their investments and improve the decentralized management of service
delivery.
(iii) Support for inter-community integration and empowerment through effective outreach programs and
partnership building at the local level.
(iv) Enhancement of national level development planning and policy formulation through impact
monitoring and evaluation of outputs generated by the local development initiatives supported by the
project.
The above outcomes are closely interwoven, reinforce each other, and will evolve over the life of the
project. First, construction activities connected with community infrastructure and services in a particular
local area will create output across sectors and short-term employment in a number of fields. Second,
institutional building and partnership formation activities will provide support to carry out more effectively
the community infrastructure and services activities. Third, the experience gained through local level
development, impact monitoring and evaluation surveys will help enhance the quality of development
planning and policy formulation at the national level.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators set out in Annex I reflect monitorable outcomes and impacts under the
project covering key project activities. These include quantitative indicators (i.e., measurable improvements
and outputs) relating to project benefits and qualitative assessments on demand-driven mechanisms, service
delivery, and community participation. The specific areas that will be assessed cover various activities of
the CDP program including: (i) targeting of beneficiaries; (ii) promotion of inter-community activities; (iii)
participation of key stakeholders; (iv) cost efficiency of microprojects and services; (v) short-term
employment generation at the local level from microproject works; (vi) quality of works (design,
- 2 -



construction and workmanship of infrastructure microprojects); (vii) operation and maintenance of
infrastructure micr,oprojects; (viii) capacity building efforts at the local level benefiting local governments,
implementing comrmittees, contractors and CDP staff; (ix) service delivery at the local level; and (x)
management of the CDP office.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2000-80 [IFC/R2000-79] Date of latest CAS discussion: June 13, 2000
A Transitional Support Strategy for FYR Macedonia (TSS, document number: IDA/R2001-0148) was
endorsed by the Board on September 13, 2001. The proposed project is an integral part of the TSS in
which the objectives of poverty reduction and the development of human capital are clearly emphasized. A
shift in emphasis has become necessary to respond to new short-term challenges that have emerged, as a
result of the conflict in 2001. As set out in the TSS, these challenges include balance of payments needs,
reconstruction of destroyed villages, financing of community-building initiatives that provide employment
and strengthen social cohesion, and service delivery and public sector management at the local level in the
context of accelerated decentralization. The importance of fostering reconciliation and preventing further
conflict has also been highlighted in the TSS. In approving the TSS, the Board agreed to an exceptional,
one-time, IDA allocation of $35 million for FY02 on modified terms, with a final maturity of 20 years, 10
years of grace, and carrying the standard IDA service charge of 75 basis points. This allocation supports a
Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit ($15 million), an Emergency Recovery Assistance Credit
($15 million), and a Community Development Project ($5 million). The latter project aims to address these
challenges through: (i) improving the quality of and access to infrastructure services for the poorer and
vulnerable segments of the population; (ii) fostering participatory development processes among the key
stakeholders at the local level, and promoting social cohesion; and (iii) building capacity at the local level in
the management of basic public services by local governments and communities.
In order to support the preparation of the Community Development Project, a grant of $1 million was
sought from the Post-Conflict Fund (PCF). The Bank's PCF Committee met on April 17, 2002 and
approved a first tranche of US$500,000 for the FYR Macedonia PCF grant. Once this initial tranche has
been fully disbursed, the Committee will meet to consider the second tranche of the PCF grant. The PCF
grant will support the preparation of the CDP by funding critical project start-up costs, facilitating
intervention by developing a solid understanding of the sources of conflict, and testing the kinds of
activities that could receive funding under the project. In addition, it will provide a relatively rapid
response in a post-conflict situation. Approximately US$300,000 of the first tranche will be used to pilot
activities such as those that could be carried out under the project. The remaining funds will be used to
directly support project preparation, notably by carrying out a social and conflict assessment, establishing a
Project Implementation Unit, and providing technical assistance for the preparation of key project
documents.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
FYR Macedonia achieved independence from the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1991 -- the
only former republic to do so without violence. Nonetheless latent tensions between the ethnic Albanian
(roughly one quarter to one third of the total population) and ethnic FYR Macedonian populations raised
the possibility of conflict. Such conflict was avoided for a decade, despite the social strains of both a
weakened economy and the Kosovo crisis. But in early 2001, ethnic Albanian armed groups began a low
grade insurgency that brought the country to the brink of civil war. Violence was centered around the areas
of Tetovo, Kumanovo, and the northem outskirts of Skopje. As a result of the conflict, by end July 2001,
- 3-



about 170,000 persons, according to UNHCR estimates, fled their homes and became displaced within
FYR Macedonia or in neighboring countries. The number of houses damaged during the conflict is
estimated by UNHCR at around 6,700.
In August 2001, the international community brokered a Framework Agreement, which produced a fragile
cease-fire that was to be consolidated through constitutional amendments to address the grievances of the
ethnic Albanian population and an amnesty for most combatants. While the cease-fire generally held
through the lengthy and contentious political process of approving the measures required by this
Agreement, it has been marred by a number of incidents of violence, and tensions still remain high. As of
April 2002, most refugees had returned home and the number of internally displaced persons assisted by
the Red Cross had fallen to approximately 14,300.
The afterrnath of the conflict has brought into sharp focus the main challenge of strengthening social
cohesion through an integrated approach to address post conflict priorities, including the country's main
problems of poverty, unemployment, disparities in living standards, the poor state of social and economic
services, and limited public service capacity at the local level. Seeking and implementing solutions to these
problems are crucially important, and have been assigned the highest priority by the Government, in the
present post-conflict phase.
The main sector issues in the aftermath of the conflict relate to the following areas:
Social Tension and Conflict Prevention: Underlying social tensions have adversely affected the social
fabric and well-being of the population of FYR Macedonia. The core of the problem is the social
divisiveness between ethnic groups, particularly (although not exclusively) between ethnic Macedonians
and Albanians. Deep-rooted economic and social factors have created much tension between ethnic groups,
which has been exacerbated by the recent conflict. Indeed a public survey carried out by the Institute for
Sociological, Political and Legal Research in late October 2001 found polarization of opinions between the
ethnic Macedonians and Albanians on nearly every issue (except EU accession). Many ethnic Albanians
believe that peace-building can be achieved through safeguards for minority rights, greater inclusion of
minority groups in the country's administrative and development activities, and providing equity in access
to economic and social services. In contrast, many ethnic Macedonians believe that FYR Macedonia has
been exemplary in protecting minority rights and feel it highly inappropriate that additional entitlements be
achieved through violent and undemocratic means. There is a significant risk of geographic polarization as
well as movement of some people away from neighbors that they now fear. Thus, a key challenge faced by
Government at all levels is to bridge the ethnic divisions and encourage people to work constructively
together.
Poverty. FYR Macedonia suffered major economic losses and social disruptions following the breakup of
the Yugoslav Federation in 1991 and the ensuing regional conflicts. In the process, the country lost a large
protected market for its industrial products, key transport routes, large transfers from the federal
government, and foreign currency savings of more than US$1.2 billion. Consequently, FYR Macedonia
emerged as a country with high levels of poverty and unemployment among its population of around 2
million.
According to the official poverty line, approximately 20 percent of the population is poor, and two thirds of
the poor live in the rural areas. Poverty is also multidimensional in character. The poor include: the
traditional poor (mainly the rural poor), the new poor (those affected by the transition, mainly comprising
nonagricultural households), and the chronic poor comprising the elderly, the disabled, the aged
non-pensioners, orphans, and other disadvantaged groups. Characteristics of poverty include: limited asset
ownership, large household size, and low access to education, health and social services. Another
- 4 -



characteristic of poverty is its wide geographical variation. According to latest available data, in the year
2000, the south western, south eastern, Poloski, and Skopski regions recorded high levels of poverty, while
the poverty rates in the other regions were below the national average. Urban-rural disparities also exist.
For example, in areas outside Skopje, the poverty rate varies from 17.7% in urban areas to 29.4% in rural
areas. Living conditions of the poor are badly affected by the run-down state of the country's social and
economic services, as described below:
(i)    Schools and Health Facilities. Although a large number of schools and health facilities were not
affected by the conflict, many of these are in a state of disrepair, as they were built 20-30 years ago, and
were not properly maintained. In many schools, roofs are leaking, windows need repair, and consequently,
they are a health risk for students. The same is true of health clinics in regard to patients. Transport for
school children is also a problem.
(ii)   Water Supply and Sanitation. In many areas, more so in the rural areas, water supply systems
are not satisfactory; lack of drinking water and sewage disposal are the biggest problems. Many villages
suffer from the lack of piped water, and households have to fetch water from wells and village fountains
often located up to 300 meters from the house. In some villages, sanitation facilities are grossly inadequate
or nonexistent. Water pollution is also a major problem. It results from the discharge of wastewater from
mines, industries, populated areas, and cattle breeding farms.
(iii)  Neighborhood Access Roads. Although conflict inflicted damage in the road sector is minor, the
lack of road maintenance over the past year, has left many roads in poor conditions. In addition, recent
Roma settlements in peri-urban areas and in locations further away from cities pose particular problems of
lack of access roads to basic service centers.
Unemployment. The extremely high level of unemployment of about 32% is one of the most pressing
social problems facing FYR Macedonia. Unemployment has remained at around 30% over the past decade
due to the downturn in economic activity after the separation from the Federal Republic of Yugoslav in
1991, the lack of adequate economic growth since then, and the rigidities in the labor market. Since 1991, a
large number of factories have been shut down, or forced to operate at low capacity, and a number of major
public enterprises have been privatized. Consequently, large numbers of employees suffered layoffs
exacerbating unemployment. The situation has been further exacerbated by the recent closure of Jugohrom
and two textile factories in the Tetovo region, which has resulted in the loss of about 3000 jobs. This crisis
is compounded by new entrants to the labor market who cannot find jobs. Another dimension of
unemployment is its heavy concentration among the Roma, Albanian, and Turkish communities, reflecting
in part, the lower levels of education, notwithstanding equitable access to education. Unemployment is also
high in some areas predominantly occupied by ethnic Macedonians, particularly in Eastern FYR
Macedonia following the closure of a few large textile factories.
Status of Women. On the whole, women are well represented in public sector activities in urban areas,
reflecting the provisions for gender equality in Article 9 of the Constitution of FYR Macedonia, and Article
42 which has a special provision for protection of mothers. Gender equality is also embodied in a number
of other laws such as those relating to labor relations, trade unions and defense. In public administration
for example, women hold over 50 percent of the positions, while in banking, positions held by women
amount to about 62 percent of the total - although men generally occupy the higher ranking positions in
both areas. In the law courts, close to half the number of judges are women, but they are a minority in the
Supreme Court. In education, more than half the teaching positions are held by women. However, major
disparities exist in the private and rural sectors of the economy. A recent labor force survey found that
women hired by the private sector were less than 30 percent of the total. In the rural sector, women are far
- 5-



more engaged in household activities than their urban counterparts, and are far less represented in outside
employment, in the broader activities of their communities, and in local government. Poor infrastructure
facilities in some rural areas appears to have placed a greater work load on the domestic activities
performed by women (e.g. fetching of water from distant sources). Another significant feature is that
ethnic Albanian and Roma women lag behind ethnic Macedonian women in education, and hence in their
participation in social and economic activities.
Capacity for Service Delivery at the Local Level: Within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, local
government exercised substantial delegated powers. However, with the breakup of the Federation, there
arose a perceived need on the part of the newly independent governments to strengthen the power of the
center. As a result, in FYR Macedonia, the government became highly centralized. Under current
circumstances, the following features are characteristic of local governance: (i) institutionally weak local
governments, with limited financial resources and modest- to- weak institutional capacities; (ii) inadequate
systems of accounting, fnancial planning, and budgeting at the local level; (iii) lack of partnerships at the
local level; (iv) lack of involvement of citizens in the decision-making process in development activities,
management, and service provision; and (v) lack of access to basic information regarding services and
entitlements on the part of local communities, particularly in rural areas. While some of the larger
municipalities are receiving attention through donor-assisted programs, smaller municipalities, along with
local communities, particularly in rural and remote locations, as well as marginal urban neighborhoods, are
receiving much less attention and financial support.
Central authorities have come to the realization that they do not have the means of effectively managing a
highly centralized system and as some parts of the population demand greater local authority. The
Government of FYR Macedonia is now committed to the decentralization of its public administration, as
part of the Framework Agreement, and has made clear provisions to this effect in the country's
Constitution. The Law on Local Govermnent adopted in January 2002 has a number of important
provisions that will impact local government finance and service delivery.
While the precise details of the competencies to be transferred to the municipal level, along with the
associated financial arrangements, are still under negotiation, the effective performance of these
decentralized functions will require the transfer of responsibilities and resources from the central
government to the municipalities. At the same time municipalities need to be empowered to mobilize
resources locally to help carry out increased local government responsibilities. Such reforms will require
new legislation, regulations, systems and procedures, both at the central government and local government
levels. Significant institutional building will be needed for the municipalities to carry out their new
functions, particularly relating to revenue generation and financial management, as well as management
and delivery of public services, including health, education, social assistance to poor families, care for the
disabled, care for children and youth with mental illness and learning disabilities and
transport/accommodation of students.
Under the provisions of the Local Self-Government Act of 2002, municipalities will also be expected to
take a pro-active role in facilitating community development, as well as conununity participation in
decision-making. Closely related to support to community participation, and another important function
expected of the local governments is to disseminate basic information to local residents on social services.
While Citizen Information Centers have been set up with donor assistance in some of the larger
municipalities (e.g., Kumanovo), the smaller municipalities do not have such facilities. Currently, many
residents lack basic information on key areas that affect their well being, such as their entitlements,
available social assistance programs, employment opportunities, re-settlement programs, communal
services (i.e., water and sanitation, housing and electricity), the kinds of aid offered by humanitarian
- 6 -



organizations, and community-based care for vulnerable groups. This lack of information is a major
impediment to improving their living standards. It reflects the lack of capacity at the local level to conduct
informal surveys, interact with local communities, conduct public hearings and organize information for
ready access by the residents.
Government Strategy: The Government has already initiated action to address some of these areas. The
Framework Agreement for peace contains provisions for reinforcing the principle of nondiscrimination,
greater use of the Albanian language in official business, increased Albanian representation in the public
service, and more opportunities for the study in the Albanian language. In addition, the Government is also
focusing its attention on constitutional amendments already in place, and the required detailed legislation,
executive orders and budget decisions relating to each of the components of the agreement. Furthermore,
the Government is beginning to implement a policy of decentralization, which will give more power and
responsibility to local governments. At the Donors Meeting held in Brussels on March 12, 2002, the
Government reaffirmed its commitment to the full implementation of the Framework Agreement, and called
upon Donors to provide both technical and financial assistance to the Government to help meet the
challenge of implementing the provisions of the Agreement.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Fostering Social Reconciliation: This project is premised on the notion that social reconciliation can be
fostered by building relationships between people around issues of common concern. The demand-driven
approach of conmmunity investment projects will require that beneficiaries collaborate to agree upon
priority interventions, facilitate the implementation of subprojects, and then ensure adequate operations and
maintenance. Local level institutional strengthening will build local capacity for participatory community
development activities. The project will finance community infrastructure microprojects and services and
thereby provide opportunities for bringing different social groups together for a common good. And the
community outreach, information dissemination and impact monitoring component will empower
community members to work together by providing them with accurate information on which to base their
collaboration.
Enhancing Social Protection: The project will help enhance social protection through an integrated
approach to addressing the key issues of poverty, lack of capacity for service delivery at the local level, and
low levels of community participation. While the primary impact of the project will be felt locally, the
ultimate impact of this investment will be to help fashion a climate of inclusion and security through a
comprehensive participatory development program. The proposed project will help address the poverty
issue by improving the quality of life of the poor through improving community services and rehabilitation
of small-scale infrastructure, and by targeting of project funds to the poorest and conflict-affected areas.
To carry out these activities more effectively, the institutional framework at the local level will be
strengthened and communities will be empowered through training and information dissemination. The
project will help address the unemployment issue through short-term employment related to infrastructure
rehabilitation works, technical assistance through local consultants, and employment surveys. To help
address local capacity constraints in service delivery, the project will provide technical assistance and
training to local governments and communities to improve service delivery and carry out development
work. In broad terms, the aim of the project is to support the Government's post-conflict development
efforts, help restore normalcy in conflict-affected areas, engender community participation among all
ethnic groups and thereby foster social reconciliation in the country.
Improving Policy Formulation: Social sector planning and policy formulation at the national level will
benefit from the project through mechanisms for information feedback from the grassroots level. These
- 7 -



mechanisms will take the form of frequent impact monitoring and evaluation surveys on local development
initiatives conducted and made available to the national planning authorities. Such information could be
used in planning and policy formulation, design of budgets, and other key products such as poverty
reduction strategy papers. Employment surveys in particular will help improve labor market policy in
order to increase labor market flexibility. Another element for social sector planning would be the results
of other donor programs that are focusing on social sector issues. Accordingly, the project design will
include mechanisms to help improve coordination among the donor programs in the social sector and
provide effective feedback to the Central Government.
Strengthening Capacity for Service Delivery at the Local Level: The project would help build a
development process at the local level that is based on participatory approaches -- particularly citizen
participation in decision-making processes -- and community-based schemes, which are particularly
valuable in helping to strengthen local capacity. First, the project would support the Government's
decentralization program which, inter alia, is aimed at improving service delivery in health, education, and
social assistance to ensure service can be delivered efficiently in a decentralized framework. Support would
be provided through technical assistance and training to local government officials, particularly in the field
of financial management, as well as in improving accountability. Second, the project would provide
training to stakeholders at the municipal level to help establish a development framework designed to
facilitate equitable access to social services and information and respond to the common good of the
community. Such a framework would help build the needed capacity that would facilitate: (a) the
rehabilitation of schools, health clinics, and other social service centers; (b) provision of information on
entitlements to services, and relevant service standards; (c) employment surveys which would identify
constraints faced by entrepreneurs in expanding production and employment, serve as inputs to local level
development plans, and at the same time, help streamline regulatory processes (e.g., building pernits and
zoning); and (d) the promotion of effective participatory mechanisms for community development through
the active engagement of communities in local government decision-making processes. Capacity building
will be focused, in particular, on medium-sized and smaller municipalities with little or no donor financing,
and on local communities.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)     Total     (USSM)   financing
1. Community Investment Projects  Social Funds          8.23      86.1      3.95       79.0
1. Community Infrastructure
1.1 Preparation and implementation of
microprojects for the rehabilitation of
small-scale social and economic
infrastructure.
1.2 Microprojects for the
rehabilitation of school heating
systems.
1.3 School furniture (desks, chairs,
blackboards, etc.).
-8 -



2. Community Social Services
2.1 Small grants programs.
II. Local Level Institutional    Institutional         0.37       3.9      0.33       6.6
Strengthening                    Development
1. Capacity building and TA at the
Microproject Level
2. Capacity building and TA at the
Local Government Level
3. Employment surveys to strengthen
local development planning process
III. Community Outreach, Information  Institutional    0.21       2.2      0.18       3.6
Dissemination and Project Impact  Development
Monitoring and Evaluation
1. Information dissemination outreach
programs
2.Community Profiling
3. Surveys, beneficiary assessments and
workshops for impact monitoring
IV. Institutional Support to the CDP  Institutional    0.75       7.8      0.54      10.8
PIU.                             Development
1. Support to the general administration
and management of project.
2. Capacity building and TA to staff in
CDP PI.
3. Financing of annual technical
reviews.
Total Project Costs                   9.56     100.0      5.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                    9.56      100.0      5.00     100.0
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.56 million, of which IDA would finance US$5 million.
US$3 million would be co-financed by the international donor community (preliminary estimates are:
Norwegian Government: US$0.5 million, The Netherlands: US$1.5 million, and other donors US$1
million). Additional funding wouid be contributed by local communities (US$0.59 million) through
contributions to microproject costs, and the remaining US$0.97 million would be counterpart funding by
the Government of FYR Macedonia to finance microprojects, grants for community social services, project
recurrent costs and taxes on local goods and services.
-9-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the implementation of the Framework Agreement (i.e., peace agreement), now
embodied in the Constitution. This would be accomplished through: (i) reducing underlying social tensions,
fostering reconciliation, and building local social capital. Social cohesion will be fostered by providing
equitable access to services and by encouraging people to work together on common concerns; (ii) the
project's focus on conflict-affected areas, where living standards have been seriously affected through
displacement from homes and livelihoods, damage to and loss of household property, and damage to
community infrastructure and service delivery; and (iii) an emphasis on poverty reduction and short-term
employment that will address one of the key causes of conflict, namely frustration with socioeconomic
conditions, as well as adequate attention that vulnerable groups are effectively targeted under the project.
In addition, the project will support the Government's decentralization program, which inter alia, focuses on
improving education, health, and social service delivery at the local level. It will do so primarily through
capacity building measures under the local level institutional strengthening component. In addition, the
Community Outreach, Information dissemination and Impact Monitoring component will contribute to the
decentralization program by building the capacity of community members to work constructively with their
local governments.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will have a number of benefits which will help reduce social tensions, foster reconciliation, and
build local social capital through participatory and inclusionary development processes involving the
various ethnic groups. These benefits will include:
(i) Stronger inter-ethnic relations through the promotion of shared community-based activities, including
conferences, workshops and seminars.
(ii) Generation of a tangible development impact in terms of social and economic benefits to poor
communities through improved quality and equitable access to social and economic infrastructure and
community services.
(iii) Cost-effective use of public funds in community-initiated infrastructure rehabilitation and services
projects.
(iv) Establishment of a basis of ownership and accountability at the local level, around which maintenance
arrangements can be built.
(v) Increased participation of women in community decision-making through development activities.
(vi) Generation of short-term employment at the local level through the community infrastructure
component and through technical assistance provided by local consultants.
(vii) Increased community participation and local institutional strengthening with improved ability of
community groups to organize, plan and manage their own activities.
(viii) Consolidation of the Government's decentralization program through the reinforcement of
partnerships at the local level, information dissemination, and the active involvement and engagement of
local governments and communities in the delivery of services to the poor.
(ix) Enhancement of the participation of bilateral donors, international and local NGOs, and community
groups.
(x) Establishment of a basis for enhancing national level development planning and policy formulation in
local level service delivery.
Target Population:
The allocation of project funds would broadly support the Government's post-conflict development
- 10-



priorities aimed at fostering reconciliation amongst its people, reducing social tensions, and building local
social capital. Given the limited funds available from the project and the need for selectivity, the targeting
of funds would be best approached at two levels, i.e., regional targeting and local community targeting, as
described below:
(i)    Regional Targeting. Based on consultations with government officials during the Identification
mission and available data, areas most affected by the recent conflict are located in the Western region,
while a number of areas in the Eastern region are amongst the poorest -- signalling priorities in the
allocation of CDP project funds. However, considering the need to justify the allocation of project funds on
the basis of objective criteria, first at the regional level, a number of regional factors have been taken into
account. Eight regional groupings of municipalities have been identified by the authorities corresponding to
the geographical regions covered by the eight regional offices of the Statistics Department. These regions
are: Pelagonija, the South West, the North East, Poloski, the South East, the East, Vardarski, and Skopski.
A composite poverty-conflict index was calculated for these eight regions based on: (a) population size; (b)
extent of poverty, based on regional indicators of the level and intensity of poverty; (c) unemployment; and
(d) the number of persons displaced from each region (by origin), and damaged houses - to take account of
the effects of the conflict.
While there was broad agreement with the Government on the need for selectivity, it was noted during
Appraisal that, following the Donors Meeting held in Brussels in March 2002, a large volume of donor
funding is being targeted to the conflict-affected regions and to Skopje. Meanwhile, priority social needs in
Eastern Macedonia have intensified in the recent months due to high levels of poverty exacerbated by
increased unemployment resulting from the closure of a number of textile factories in the Stip region. It
was also noted that conflict prevention and reducing social tensions have assumed high priority in
Macedonia - pointing to the need for an equitable distribution of CDP funds to all regions. The sensitivity
of limiting funds to a few regions, and excluding others, was emphasized by the Government. In these
circumstances, based on suggestions by the Govemment, it was agreed that allocations for Skopski
(Skopje) and Poloski (Tetovo region) should be limited to US$1.0 million and US$ 1.5 million respectively,
that the rest of the project funds should be targeted to the other six regions on the basis of the proposed
targeting strategy. In addition to the broad regional allocations, a small reserve fund of US$ 500,000 was
also agreed to, for targeting of funds to meet emergency situations in some communities that may arise
during the life of the project. The agreed regional allocation of funds for the six regions (other than
Skopski and Poloski), based on population size and a poverty-conflict index, as well as the allocations for
Skopski, Poloski, and the reserve fund are shown in Annex 13. The poverty targeting strategy and the
regional allocation of funds will be reviewed and revised as needed during the Mid-term review.
Given the need for selectivity, the promotion team of the CDP PIU will initially focus only on two or three
priority regions identified by the agreed methodology (e.g. the South West, and the North East ), where an
integrated program of pilot activities will be implemented. Such an approach will be essential to learn from
early experiences, test out imnplementation mechanisms, ensure tangible results on the ground, and to
produce demonstration effects for subsequent work in other regions. Using these broad regional allocations
as the first level of targeting, a more detailed targeting strategy will be carried out by the CDP PIU to
identify the neediest communities, as described below.
(ii)   Local Community Targeting. As a consequence of the recent local government reforms and the
new territorial boundaries, there are now a total of 123 municipalities in FYR Macedonia plus one for
Skopje, as compared to a previous total of 34. Based on discussions with key government officials, the
major Donors, and NGOs, the proposal is to channel the regional allocations mentioned above to targeted
municipalities and local communities within each region on the basis of criteria described in Annex 13.
- 11 -



These and other relevant criteria will be further refined, based on the experience of other donors who have
been active at the community level, e.g., the UNHCR. The promotion team of the PIU will use these
criteria to select communities for initial discussions on community needs, priorities perceived by the
communities, microproject possibilities, and modalities of operation of the CDP. However, the formulation
and presentation of microproject proposals will have to be carried out by the communities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
I. Institutional Arrangements
Institutional Set-up and Administrative Structure of the CDP PIU. During the project Identification
mission, it was agreed that the counterpart ministry for the CDP will be the Ministry of Finance and that
the implementation of the project will be carried out through a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
responsible for the overall management and administration of the CDP. The legal status of this unit would
be one of an autonomous agency reporting to the Ministry of Finance. The independent set-up of the CDP
PIU will be critical to ensure that the Unit will carry out day-to-day operations in an efficient and effective
manner. Experience under social fund type projects in the Region suggests that this institutional
arrangement is the most effective in the management and administration of community-based activities.
The CDP PIU would be govemed by a Supervisory Board chaired by the Minister of Finance, and with the
representation from the Ministries of Education, Health, Labor and Social Policy, Local Self Govemment,
as well as from participating donors. The PIU will be established by a decision of the Minister of Finance,
and its Supervisory Board will be established by the Prime Minister. Bank representatives associated with
the project will attend Board meetings as observers. The establishment of an operational PIU with a
structure, functions and staffing necessary to start the Project implementation satisfactory to the
Association is a condition of effectiveness. A draft legal document for the establishment of the CDP PIU
was presented to the Association by the Govemment and discussed during Negotiations.
The CDP PIU will have the full authority to manage and administer its program under operating guidelines
and procedures set out in the project's Operational Manual. The PIU will recruit office staff and technical
consultants on a competitive basis according to qualifications and selection criteria set out in the
Operational Manual. The Unit will also have the authority to enter into consultant services and civil works
contracts and to manage the project's financial accounts.
The duties and responsibilities of the CDP Supervisory Board at the institutional level will be to appoint
the Director of the CDP PIU and approve the recruitment of staff as Heads of Departments. At the
administrative level the Board will guide and supervise the administration and operations of the CDP
program in accordance with the Operational Manual. At the technical level, the Board will be responsible
for reviewing and approving quarterly and annual reports, key studies on technical and procurement
reviews, and community investment projects as required by the Operational Manual. The Board will also
be responsible for reviewing and approving microprojects above US$150,000. In addition to routine Board
meetings, the participation and involvement of the Board will be enhanced by setting up periodic field visits
for Board members to demonstration projects, and by organizing yearly workshops and seminars with key
stakeholders on special project related themes.
The key institutions participating in the implementation of the CDP, and their respective roles are described
below.
1) Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The Organizational Structure of the CDP PIU, including
implementation responsibilities under each entity was discussed with the Government during Appraisal and
it was agreed that it will be designed to meet the institutional challenges and evolving needs under the
project. The CDP PIU would be headed by a Director and would comprise three departments and a number
- 12 -



of specialized units. The Institutional Support Department will consist of three units: a Community
Outreach and Promotion Unit, a Training and Technical Assistance Coordination Unit, and a Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit. The Community Investment Project Department includes two units covering
Appraisal and Follow-Up. The Administration Department will consist of two units on Accounting and
General Administration. These Departments will provide technical and administrative support on ASIF
operations under each stage of the microproject cycle involving promotion, project identification and
preparation, appraisal, approval and implementation, supervision and monitoring. The Director of the PIU
will hold regular meetings with the Heads of the PIU units to review and approve community investment
projects. They will have the responsibility for: (i) approving microprojects of a size of US$150,000 or less;
(ii) reviewing on a case-by-case basis proposed reductions for community contributions; and (iii) reviewing
and approving revisions to the project's Operational Manual. The Director of the PIU will be chair the
meetings and will be responsible for coordinating, mediating and documenting the decisions of the
meetings, and reporting to the Board and to the Bank on key issues addressed.
The other participating institutions under the project include: (i) the Community Implementing Committees
(i.e., local govemrnments and community members) responsible for the implementation of the community
investment projects; and (ii) private contractors who compete for microproject contracts for design and
rehabilitation works. A brief description of the composition, role and functions of these institutions are
highlighted below:
2) Community Implementing Committees. The community-based organization, referred to as the
Community Implementing Committee (CIC), is directly responsible for microproject implementation. The
CIC will be responsible for the identification, prioritization of needs and consensus building on small-scale
investment priorities which maximize public benefit projects for their communities. Lessons from other
social funds have shown that effective participation at the community level comes from the active
participation of local governments and established community associations as members of community
implementing agencies. These institutional entities are important, particularly for: (a) asset management,
operations and maintenance of the facilities renovated or rehabilitated under the microprojects; and (b)
improvement of programs and services provided at the local level. The composition of the CIC under the
CDP will therefore support this partnership by including representatives from the local government,
established community associations (i.e. schools boards, WUAs) and community members. The
representation of women on the CIC will be mandatory to ensure their active participation in the design,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of conununity-based development activities. The CIC will be
headed by a local government official or a member of the community-based association, and will be legally
responsible for carrying out the microproject under a Framework Agreement with the CDP. The CIC will
be responsible for microproject proposal, design, up-front collection of a financial and in-kind contributions
and operation and maintenance of facilities. The CIC will also take charge of procurement, implementation
and reporting to the community on the progress of the microprojects.
3) Private Contractors: Private local contractors will compete for microproject contracts for design and
rehabilitation works. Contractors will be supervised by the CIC and a qualified local on-site supervisor.
Local supervisors under the CDP will be recruited by the PIU on a competitive basis. Contractors will be
paid directly from the CDP PIUT based on certified statements and accomplished works that meet quality
standards.
II. Project Management Arrangements
Arrangements for project management will be carried out in three phases. The first phase of project
management consists of the establishment of interim arrangements covering the transitional period up to the
establishment of the CDP Project Implementation Unit (PIUT). The second phase will take place when the
- 13 -



new CDP PIU has been established and management arrangements set up under the interim PIU are
transferred to this unit. The third phase of project management will begin with the fulfillment and
declaration of project effectiveness and will mark the official beginning of project implementation. Detailed
descriptions of these phases are described below:
Phase I: Interim Project Management Arrangements. The first step in this process was to reach formal
agreement on the selection of an interim management unit to provide assistance with initial project
preparation activities, including those activities to be financed under the PCF grant. It was agreed with the
Ministry of Finance to establish an interim PIU in the Ministry of Finance (MOF), under the PIU of the
Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC) located in that Ministry. The PSMAC PIU was
established in November 2000 to administer technical assistance activities in support of the PSMAC
financed under a Dutch Trust Fund of US$3.8 million and a PHRD grant of $614,000. The PIU comprises
a Director/financial management specialist and a procurement specialist. Since the CDP PIU will be only
established in June 2002, the PSMAC PIU will provide support, on an interim basis, with the carrying out
of a limited number of project preparation activities for the CDP, which are proposed to be financed under
the PCF grant. Initially these activities would cover the procurement of key staff in the CDP PIU. It may
also involve the recruitment of a limited number of consultants to carry out some technical activities to be
financed under the PCF grant. During Appraisal the Bank met with the interim PSMAC PIU to discuss
priority start-up activities of the project together with the proposed timeframe for implementation. The
interim period is estimated to last three months from April 1 to June 30, 2002. The new CDP PIU is
expected to be in place in June 2002 to assume full responsibility of preparation activities under the project
and the implementation of the PCF grant.
Interim Procurement Arrangements: With regard to project preparation activities under the CDP, the
interim PIU will be primarily responsible for carrying out the procurement process for the selection of key
staff in the CDP PIU including: a) executive director; b) project accountant; c) community development
specialist; c); d) a procurement specialist; e) an engineer; and f) an MIS specialist. Provided that the PCF
grant is approved, the recruitment schedule for PIU staff is as follows: CDP Director: May 2002; All other
key PIU staff: June 2002. An assessment of staffing needs in the CDP PIU will be carried out in June 2002
and additional staff will be recruited as needed. The interim PIU will also be responsible for carrying out
preliminary activities under the PCF grant once it becomes effective. A procurement plan was developed
during Appraisal covering procurement activities to be carried out during Phase I of project management
arrangements.
It was agreed during Appraisal that a Procurement Review Committee would be set-up to oversee and
approve procurement activities carried out under the interim period of procurement arrangements. This
Committee would consist of representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the PSMAC PIUJ Director and
Procurement Specialist, and the CDP PIU Director, when he or she is hired. A procurement capacity
assessment of the interim PSMAC PIU was also conducted during Appraisal by a Bank Procurement
Specialist. In addition to the procurement capacity assessment, an Action Plan was developed during
Appraisal to build the CDP PIm's procurement capacity. The Action Plan identifies the specific areas of
Technical Assistance (TA) requirements, the timing and duration of proposed TA activities, as well as
relevant information regarding the firms or individual consultant to provide the TA. The training and TA
activities proposed under the Procurement Action Plan will be incorporated as part of the financing under
the project. General procurement procedures to be carried out under the community investment projects
will be developed in the course of project preparation with preliminary guidelines and procedures developed
and incorporated in the CDP Operational Manual by project effectiveness.
Interim Financial Management Arrangements: In addition to procurement activities, interim financial
management arrangements for both the PCF grant and the CDP have been developed during this
transitional period, with the assistance of an accounting consultant familiar with Bank financial
- 14 -



management requirements. After selecting and installing an accounting software, the consultant has
customized the financial management package in compliance with the draft Project Appraisal Document
(PAD). The financial management system (FMS) developed provides a basic accounting information
required to record, process and monitor financial transactions initiated during project preparation and
during the implementation of the project. An initial assessment of the FMS developed has been assessed by
the Bank's Financial Management Specialist and was found to be satisfactory, meeting the Bank minimum
financial management requirements. The software is FMR compatible and all the formats of the reports for
the PCF and for the CDP have been discussed and agreed with the Bank's Financial Management
Specialist. These arrangements also include an Accounting Manual for the project. During the interim
phase, and until the accountant in the CDP PIU has been hired, the accounting consultant will maintain the
accounting records conceming the implementation of the PCF grant. The consultant will also be expected
to provide on-the-job training to the accountant hired in the CDP PIU in the usage of the FMS, as well as in
financial management procedures. The timetable for activities to be carried out during the transitional
period is outlined in Annex 6.
Interim Disbursement Arrangements: During the first phase of project implementation, pilot activities and
project preparation activities will be financed from proceeds of the PCF grant. Given that the PCF grant
will be executed by the Govenmment, a Special Account for the grant will be opened by the interim PSMAC
PIU to manage funds under the grant. The Ministry of Finance, which will be the recipient of the grant,
will provide the interim PIU with the authority to sign Withdrawal Applications, with the understanding
that the signing authority will expire once the transfer of project management responsibility is made from
the interim PIU to the newly created CDP PIU. Once the transfer is made, any remaining balance in the
Special Account opened by the interim PIU will be transferred to a new Special Account to be opened by
the CDP PIU to administer PCF grant funds. Reports covering financial transactions carried out under the
grant administered by the interim PIU, as well as supporting documentation for these transactions such as
bid evaluation reports, contracts issued, receipts of payments made to consultants, pending payment claims
and invoices and any other relevant documentation for services or goods, will also be provided to the CDP
PIU.
Phase II: Establishment of CDP PIU. The secondphase of project management arrangements will take
place with the establishment of the CDP PIU and the concurrent transfer of management arrangements set
up under the interim PIU to this new unit. This process will be carried out gradually ensuring that: (i) the
newly recruited staff in the CDP PIU have received adequate training under the interim PIU acquiring the
basic skills needed to carry out project management activities; and (ii) the new office for the CDP PIU has
been set up including basic systems to carry out procurement and financial management and accounting
activities under the PCF grant and the CDP. The selection of the CDP office is scheduled for May 2002,
the signing of the lease and setting up of the office in June 2002.
Training and Technical Assistance to the CDP PIU: A number of training and technical assistance
activities will be carried out to enhance the capacity of key staff in the CDP PIU in the areas covering
institutional strengthening of the PIU structure and development of project guidelines and procedures. A
training and technical assistance plan was developed during Appraisal outlining key activities to be carried
out in the early phase of project implementation and during the life cycle of the project responding to
training and TA needs. These activities have been costed out and incorporated as part of project financing.
Initially, an intensified training program proposed to be financed under the PCF grant will be carried out to
build the capacity of CDP technical staff. The training will focus specifically on building the required
capacity of staff in each department to manage their functions and responsibilities in community outreach
and promotion activities; management, coordination and monitoring of the different component activities
under the project; training and technical coordination; and monitoring and evaluation. In addition, special
training will be provided by firms and or individual consultants to address the capacity gaps identified
- 15-



under the procurement and financial management assessments carried out during Appraisal. On-the job
training will also be provided to the PIU to assist them in formulating strategies for each of the
departments/units to be created under the organizational structure of the PIU. A group of specialists with
extensive experience working on social fund type projects have been identified and will be recruited under
the PCF grant to assist both the interim PIU and the CDP PIU in carrying out initial key project
preparation activities and in the initial start-up of project implementation.
Project Guidelines and Procedures: Technical assistance will also be provided to assist the PIU in the
development of guidelines and procedures for project activities to be incorporated in the CDP Operational
Manual (OM). The first step in this process will be to design a framework for the development of the
Operational Manual. This will comprise: (i) defining institutional arrangements under the project, i.e.,
organizational structure, role and functions of each department and unit in the PIU and staffing needs; and
(ii) defining operational aspects of key project activities covering community infrastructure rehabilitation,
conmmunity social services, employment promotion, capacity building, and project management. Two
specialists to assist the P1U in the development of the OM have been identified and are expected to start
work in May 2002, when the CDP Director has been appointed. The specialists will be financed under the
proceeds of the PCF grant. Procurement and disbursement procedures under the project, to be incorporated
in the OM, will be developed in the course of project preparation and refined during project
implementation. The submission of the first draft of the Operational Manual is tentatively scheduled for
June 30, 2002. The adoption of the Operational Manual by the Borrower is a disbursement condition
under Grants and Microprojects. It is important to note that the project will function as a pilot operation
whereby a number of tools will be tested in selected communities and conflict affected areas particularly in
designing, testing, and applying an operational framework supporting institutional, structural and
procedural activities. Thus, to the extent possible, the systems and procedures developed under the project
must include incremental, progressive and flexible mechanisms, ensuring that the procedures under the
project respond to evolving needs of the project. As part of project supervision missions, the project's
structure, systems and procedures will be assessed together with the CDP PIU staff and recommendations
for revisions will be made as needed. During the Mid-Term review, the Operational Manual will be revised
to reflect revised operational procedures.
Phase III: Project Effectiveness and Implementation. The third phase of project management
arrangements will take place following the fulfillment of project effectiveness conditions and the project
being officially declared effective. The two conditions of effectiveness are: (i) the PIU has been
established and is operational with a structure, functions and staffing necessary to start the project
implementation and satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) a project Account has been opened in a bank
acceptable to the Association with an initial deposit of $100,000. From this stage onwards, the CDP
Supervisory Board will govern the CDP organization and provide direction and guidance to CDP PIU staff
on institutional, administrative, financial and technical aspects of project activities. In addition, the CDP
will commence financing of project activities and will have the full authority to manage and administer its
program under operating guidelines and procedures set out in the project's Operational Manual.
Procurement Arrangements: Project activities, estimated costs, procurement methods and prior review
thresholds are outlined in Annex 6 of the PAD. As a result of the procurement assessment carried out
during Appraisal, a procurement Action Plan (see Annex 6) has been developed and includes technical
assistance requirements for strengthening the Agency's capacity.
Disbursement arrangements: These arrangements will be based on traditional methods (e.g.,
replenishment of the Special Account based on Statement of Expenses). The PIU will open and maintain a
Special Account for IDA disbursement purposes and a Special Account for PCF grant disbursement
purposes. Additional accounts will be opened for: the Government's counterpart contribution; the
communities' cofinancing of microproejcts; and cofianciers. These accounts will be autonomous and will
- 16 -



be audited annually by an accredited auditing firm. Detailed disbursement arrangements are outlined in
Annex 6.
Financial Management, Accounting and Auditing: The Financial Management System (FMS)
developed during Phase I (interim period) will form the core of the financial management and accounting
system under Phase II, around which other systems and procedures will be operationalized. The FMS will
be re-assessed and re-certified by the Bank's Financial Management Specialist once the transition to Phase
II is completed. A Financial Management and Accounting manual will be developed during project
preparation and refined during project implementation setting out procedures related to financial
management, accounting and auditing. This manual will provide a comprehensive source of information on
the various aspects of the PIU's regulations, organization, activities, accounting and financial procedures,
internal controls and flow of funds. The specific systems to be developed and activities to be carried out
covering financial management, accounting and auditing are outlined in Annex 6.
Monitoring and Evaluation: Project monitoring activities will be the responsibility of the CDP PIU,
contracting out these functions when appropriate. Monitoring activities under the project will entail a
process for reviewing continuously and systematically different aspects of project implementation. The
objectives of the monitoring and evaluation activities would be to: (a) ensure that procedures carried out for
implementing microprojects, executing contracts and managing project accounts are in compliance with the
Operational Manual; (b) provide information regularly on progress toward achieving desirable results and
facilitating reporting to the Board of Directors, the Government and donors; (c) provide information on
project performance in terms of social development outcomes; (d) alert managers to actual or potential
problems in implementation so that adjustments can be made; (e) determine how the project is affecting the
intended bereficiaries; and (f) provide a vehicle whereby beneficiaries could reflect and improve on their
performance. The monitoring and evaluation framework of the CDP would comprise: (i) community
investment project monitoring by CDP staff and Community Implementing Committees; (ii) the
Management Information System (MIS), (iii) annual technical, procurement and audit reviews; (iv) annual
beneficiary impact assessments; (v) Bank supervision missions carried out semi-annually with a mid-term
review scheduled for April 30, 2004; and (vi) quarterly and annual progress reports to be prepared by the
CDP PIU.
Management Information System (MIS). The MIS will be the major tool to support the monitoring of
performance and to generate impact indicators for the project as a whole, and for each individual
microproject. It will track project activities in the sub-project cycle, including basic microproject data,
monitor progress of works based on microproject supervision visits, and flag microprojects experiencing
unusual delays and signal possible cost overruns. MIS-generated reports would be an integral part of the
monthly reports submitted by CDP management to the Board for their review and of the quarterly reports
and comprehensive annual reports submitted to donors. An MIS specialist has been identified and will be
recruited in May 2002 to provide assistance to the CDP PIU in developing a Management Information
System. The consultancy, to be financed under the PCF grant, will involve the provision of technical
assistance in carrying out of the following key activities: (i) analysis of the monitoring needs under the
project, including the forms and reports that need to be produced at the different stages of the microproject
cycle; (ii) development of a monitoring and evaluation strategy and the related tools; (iii) design of the
management information system; (iv) development, setting-up and testing of the MIS; and (v) training of
CDP PIU staff in the usage of the MIS. The timetable for the development of the MIS is provided in
Annex 6 (b).
- 17-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The principal alternative considered was a project focused entirely on meeting immediate needs in support
of post conflict transition and reconciliation. However, the nature and magnitude of FYR Macedonia's
social problems stemming from poverty and unemployment were such that a more integrated project with a
developmental orientation was needed. Moreover, the Government strongly emphasized that the project
should have an economic development focus, with emphasis on poverty reduction, easing of social tensions
and employment promotion. This sentiment is echoed in the perception of the international community
active in FYR Macedonia that economic development is a necessary condition for substantially reducing
the potential for conflict in the country. Accordingly, a project focused entirely on short-term needs was
rejected in favor of an integrated community development project designed to have a greater social
development impact over the medium term. In the short term, the primary concem is to foster
reconciliation. But as the potential for conflict recedes, economic priorities will regain prominence. Thus,
the preferred alternative is to establish a mechanism that can shift its focus, from post-conflict transition
initially, to a broader approach targeted on poverty reduction and capacity building over time. This
approach is reflected in the project's targeting mechanism, whereby there will be initial pilot activities in
areas affected by conflict, followed by expansion driven by a targeting mechanism giving significant weight
to poverty reduction.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
atest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings
.                     Z~~~~~~~~Bank-financed prblects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress(IP)  ObjecUve (DO)
Social Protection                Child/Youth Devt. LIL            S            S
Multi-Sectoral                   Comm Devt. and Cult LIL          S            S
Health                           Health Sect Transition           S            S
Social Protection                Pension Reform TA                S            S
Power Sector                     Power                            S            S
Social Protection                Social Support                   S            S
Transportation                   Trade & Trans Facil in SE        S            U
Europe
Transportation                   Transport                        S            S
Water Supply                     Water Util Imp                   S            S
Other development agencies
European Community Humanitarian  Confidence Building Program
Office (ECHO)                    for Youth
Capacity Building Program of
Social Institutions
Govemment of Canada              Local Initiatives Program
Government of Germany            Local Infrastructure Program
- 18 -



Government of Netherlands        Housing Reconstruction
Program
Government of Switzerland        Crisis Assistance Project
International Organization for   Confidence Building Initiative
Migration
SIDA                              Management Development
Program for Local
Governments
UNDP                              Municipal Development
Program
Youth Employment Support
UNHCR                             Quick Impact Community
Projects
UNICEF                            Psycho-social support Program
USAID                             Community Self-Help Initiative
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Post Conflict Reconstruction: A report prepared by the Post Conflict Unit entitled "Post Conflict
Reconstruction; The Role of The World Bank" lays out some key lessons learned in supporting the
transition of countries involved in conflict into periods of sustainable peace. The report provides a
framework outlining best practices for operations, sketches out guidelines for Bank staff, and spells out
some of the specific actions that should be taken to help the institution respond in this area. Some of the
key lessons learned which are relevant to the CDP project include: (i) carrying out small-scale activities
which respond to urgent needs under a comprehensive and interrelated package of interventions designed to
facilitate the transition from conflict to peace is an effective means to post-conflict development; (ii) the
active engagement of civil society can contribute to a better understanding of how conflict can be prevented
and actually help prevent such recurrence of conflict; and (iii) confidence and trust can be restored through
self-help interventions.
Community Driven Development: The preparation of the Community Development and Culture Project
demonstrates that despite the centralist tradition in FYR Macedonia during the last decade, local
governments and communities can come together in a participatory manner to promote community
development when they perceive potential common benefits. This lesson is echoed in the experience of such
other donors as USAID, which are working in selected communities where the local authorities are open to
participatory approaches. This suggests that the participatory and demand-driven approach common to
social funds should be able to work in FYR Macedonia.
Reconciliation and Social Cohesion: Positive experience documented under the Kosovo Community
Development Project has demonstrated the importance having a community-based project serve as a
catalyst for a process in which citizens in the targeted communities, especially in mixed and minority
communities, gradually come together over time and participate in the design, implementation and
monitoring of projects which respond to the common good of the community. The project has shown that
one of the key ingredients for implementing projects in mixed communities yielding positive results, is to
allow the time that is needed for community interaction to evolve. Thus, an incremental, progressive and
flexible approach must be built into the participatory mechanisms and appropriate procedures developed
under the project. Equally important is the creation of a setting for the participation of community
members where there is a commnon interest and a common goal and where, over time, community residents
- 19-



come to appreciate that their interaction is mutually beneficial. Similarly the experience of the Children
and Youth Development Project and the Post-Conflict Fund Grant that preceded it shows that people of
different ethnic groups in FYR Macedonia are willing to work together for the common good and that there
is therefore scope for reconciliation in the country.
Sectoral Policies and Investment Priorities: Experience under social funds have shown that there is a
critical need for ensuring that social fund activities are consistent with social sector strategy priorities,
government reform programs, and activities of municipal, NGO, UN, and donor agencies. It is therefore
important to ensure that projects focus on greater coordination of social fund-type activities with relevant
sectoral policies (i.e., health and education) and investrnent priorities. This can be achieved through regular
working level contacts amnong line ministries, NGOs, donor agencies, and Bank project implementation
units. It can be further strengthened through the implementation of an effective information, outreach, and
communications strategy designed to explain sectoral policies and priorities to beneficiary populations.
Sustainability: Experience under the implementation of several social fund operations in the Region has
clearly demonstrated the critical need to improve project sustainability. To irnprove project sustainability,
lessons learned have pointed to the development of a comprehensive framework encompassing strong
institutional support from the project PIU, effective systems and procedures, and greater involvement of
key stakeholders. Specifically, PIUs need to focus on strengthening their organizational structure and
institutional mechanisms to: (i) improve the quality of works through compliance with technical standards
and closer supervision; (ii) develop the capacity of local authorities through training and technical
assistance to help formulate budgets which provide adequate financing for operation and maintenance of
completed community-based microprojects; and (iii) strengthen local government and community
involvement in the design, implementation, and maintenance of microprojects. Social fund-type programs
need to put primacy on capacity-building aimed at improving the ability of community groups participating
in microprojects to progressively enhance their roles as active agents in their communities with a greater
sense of commnitmnent, ownership and accountability in service delivery on a sustainable basis.
Poverty Targeting: Some of the lessons learned under social funds financed by the Bank related to poverty
targeting are: (i) a clearly formulated poverty targeting strategy and an allocation mechanism based on
objective criteria and poverty data ensures the flow of project benefits to the neediest segrnents of the
population; (ii) the use of a well developed poverty targeting strategy and an allocation mechanism will
mitigate political pressures in the allocation of funds; and (iii) a well developed poverty targeting strategy
should have sufficient flexibility, within the overall allocations, to target specific needs on a demand-driven
basis.
- 20 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government's commitment to the project was initially demonstrated by its concurrence with the
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) of August 20, 2001. The TSS introduces the need to finance
small-scale rehabilitation of infrastructure, help inter-community integration, and to address social issues
through a community development project, as part of its post-conflict development program. Furthermore,
during project identification, the Government confirmed its commitment to the project and agreed that
provisions would be made in the Government's 2002 budget for a Government counterpart contribution to
the CDP of US$ 1 00,000, and an additional amount of US$400,000 during the next two and half calendar
years. However, during the subsequent project costing exercise, the total estimated government
contribution increased to $968,000, consisting of a cash contribution of US$400,000 and a provision of
US$568,000 for taxes on the total project costs, including on donor financing (US$3 million). The
government cash contribution of $400,000 would finance contributions to microprojects, grants for
community social services, PIU office rent and operating costs over a 3-year period. Considering the total
Government financing of US$968,000, the Government counterpart contribution per each calendar year,
following the initial deposit of $ 1 00,000 in the first calendar year, will need to be roughly US$290,000 for
each of the three subsequent calendar years. During Negotiations it was agreed that the Government will
contribute US$500,000 for the implementation of the project. Taking into account donor grant financing
that would be received for the implementation of the project, the Government will also contribute and
additional US$500,000 to cover taxes and customs duties.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
One of the main challenges in supporting post-conflict transition in any country is to establish the link from
emergency to developmental assistance. In FYR Macedonia the majority of donor initiatives is primarily
focused on quick impact interventions to achieve rapid, visible results. And those donor initiatives focused
on development tend to predate the conflict and do not necessarily factor in the impact of conflict.
Furthermore, most donor efforts work outside of Government, for example through NGOs. Drawing from
its extensive international experience, the comparative advantage of the World Bank lies in being able to
make the linkage between emergency and development assistance and in being able to do so by working in
close coordination with the Government. Thus, the proposed community-based project will support an
integrated development program designed to facilitate the transition from conflict to peace, in keeping with
the Government's post conflict priorities.
The Bank has an additional comparative advantage in FYR Macedonia in that it can have a wide ranging
development impact in Macedonia because of its intermediation role between the Government's
development policies and community-based change. This will be achieved under the project through the
design and implementation of mechanisms to carry out effective community outreach, information
dissemination, and impact monitoring. The project will also respond to the need in FYR Macedonia to
improve coordination activities both within the donor community and with the Central Government.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
As in other community development projects, the demand-driven nature of microprojects and services
precludes the ex-ante use of traditional methods of cost-benefit analysis. Furthermore, cost-benefit
analysis, based on projected costs and benefits is also constrained at present by the lack of data on
- 21 -



community based projects, and comparable data from traditional government programs and NGO
activities. Cost-effectiveness analyses are more appropriate, but these could be conducted only ex-post,
after the mid-term review and project completion stages. Such analyses would include: the project rationale
within the broader context of the Government's priorities and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy;
comparisons with other projects under traditional government or NGO programs; cost per microproject;
and cost effectiveness indicators for each type microproject and service completed (e.g., cost per unit of
pipeline, or cost per square foot of school rehabilitation or construction). In the meantime, during project
implementation, the CDP PIU will carry out a simple cost-effectiveness analysis for each microproject
proposal presented by the communities. The analysis will be based on viable alternatives, least-cost
solutions, unit cost estimates from private construction firms, specific circumstances of the community,
estimated benefits from the project, number of beneficiaries, and other relevant factors at the micro level.
The Operational Manual will provide guidelines for carrying out such analyses.
The carrying out of a full scale cost-effectiveness analysis will be discussed during the mid-term review of
the project, based on the progress in implementing community microprojects. Such an analysis will
include: (i) the project rationale within the broader economic context of the Government's economic
recovery program and post-conflict priorities as well as the Bank's country assistance strategy; (ii) effective
targeting of project fumds to conflict-affected and poor areas; and (iii) and cost-effectiveness in the use of
funds compared to those of govemment programs or NGO sponsored projects. At a detailed level, such an
analysis will include: (a) direct costs covering labor, materials, and service costs at site; (b) overhead costs,
which are essentially PIU office costs; (c) short-term employment created; (d) the increased demand for
materials and services; and (e) cost-effectiveness indicators. The data for this analysis will be generated by
the MIS to be operationalized. The analysis will also include an assessment project impact as perceived by
the populations benefitting from the microprojects.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Since the CDP as a whole is a non-revenue generating project, no detailed financial analysis showing the
net present value and the financial rate of return was carried out. The nature of the CDP is such that many
of the microprojects to be implemented under the CDP are likely to be ones with social and environmental
impact. Such microprojects are of the non-revenue generating type and do not lend themselves to detailed
NPV and FRR analyses. However, a number of financial management aspects will be taken into account at
the microproject level, as described below:
User Fees and Cost Recovery. In the case of microprojects which are revenue generating, such as water
projects or solid waste disposal projects, the CDP PIU will ensure that beneficiaries contribute to cost
recovery through the payment of user fees to govenmment or local authority collection systems already in
place. Guidance will be provided by the CDP PIU staff on how fees could be channelled for operation and
maintenance of facilities constructed. The CDP PIU staff will emphasize the importance of cost recovery
in their dialogue with potential beneficiaries. To this end, they will direct their efforts in raising the
awareness of beneficiaries on the importance of paying for services obtained, and on use of such funds for
operation and maintenance to ensure the sustainability of services provided. Cost recovery measures
applied to these microprojects, though small in magnitude, can make a modest contribution the country's
overall fiscal revenues. On the other hand, if the user fees are inadequate to meet the cost of operations and
maintenance of facilities constructed or rehabilitated, local authorities will have to finance the gap from
their own resources.
Community Contributions and Cost Sharing. Communities would be required to fmance up to 10
percent of the total microproject costs. This requirement may be lowered to a minimum of 5 percent for
- 22 -



very poor communities. Since this contribution would represent the payment of local taxes, the
contribution would have to be made in cash. In the event that communities contribute in kind, it would be
in addition to their cash contributions. The proposed levels of cost sharing and modalities of contributions
were discussed and agreed upon during Appraisal. Cost sharing between the CDP and project beneficiaries
is essential for the following reasons: (i) to supplement the financing provided by IDA, the Government,
and other donors; (ii) to ensure that the microproject addresses a priority need of the community and to
demonstrate their commnitment to the microproject in financial terms; and (iii) to help control the size of
microproject to a level which the community can finance and maintain.
Financial Management. The CDP will benefit from the financial management system (FMS) to be set up
under the project. The FMS will conform to Bank standards, and will ensure that the required financial
accounting procedures and reporting systems are in place to help the Borrower and the Bank to
continuously monitor financial progress of the project. An additional benefit will be the training received in
financial management by a small team of local professionals. Preliminary work in setting up the FMS is
already under way (see Project Description Summary).
Fiscal Impact:
The Governnent will contribute a total of US$968,000 to the project, as follows: (a) counterpart funding
amounting to US$400,000 to finance microprojects, grants for community social services, incremental
operating costs of the project, including rent; and (b) taxes amounting to roughly US$0.57 million over the
life of the project, including taxes on donor financing, consisting of: (i) VAT at 19 percent on civil
construction works and goods, (ii) VAT of 19 percent or 5 percent for local consulting firms, and (iii)
personal income tax of 15% or 18%. The net fiscal impact of the project is expected to be positive since
the cash contributions by the communities to cover taxes are estimated at US$587,000, compared to a pure
contribution by Government of US$400,000 to the project (net of taxes), as noted above. The Government
will also benefit from budgetary savings as a result of a wide variety of microprojects financed under the
CDP. Expenditures on some of these microprojects may have had to be included in the budget, in the
absence of the CDP.
3. Technical:
The CDP will support the financing of well defined, technically sound and cost effective microprojects. In
doing so it will address the key technical issue conceming quality of works which will be enhanced by: (i)
the development of technical norms and standards for each type of microproject conforning to national
norms and standards; (ii) enforcement of these norms and standards through technical designs, effective
procurement procedures, and systematic project supervision at the local level focusing on contractor
performance by qualified technical consultants and CDP PIU staff; (iii) engagement of technical experts in
the design and supervision of works; (iv) consultations with technical experts in microprojects in which
special advice may be needed, as for example irrigation, water supply, or environmental projects; (v)
training of CDP PIU staff, implementing agencies and contractors in relevant fields of quality
enhancement; (vi) the engagement of foreign and local advisors/supervisors in quality of works,
microproject procurement, MIS and cost accounting, and compliance with the Operational Manual ; (vii)
annual procurement and technical reviews; and (viii) semi-annual Bank supervision missions and the
mid-term review.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
- 23 -



The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the CDP will be the executing agency of the proposed project.
The legal status of this unit will be one of an autonomous agency reporting to the Ministry of Finance with
a Board which will have wide representation from all relevant ministries and participating donors. The
establishment of the CDP PIU with structures, functions and staffing necessary to start project
implementation is expected in June 2002. The organizational structure of the CDP PIUl was discussed
during Negotiations and a description is provided in the Project Description Summary.
4.2 Project management:
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be responsible for the overall management of CDP operations
covering institutional, technical and administrative matters. Project management in the PIU will be
governed by the guidelines and procedures set out in the Operational Manual of the project The Director
of the PIU, who is expected to be recruited in May 2002, will have the overall responsibility of ensuring the
effectiveness and timeliness of CDP operations in accordance with the Operational Manual. He/she will be
supported by a group of technical experts and support staff. The organizational structure of the CDP
discussed during Appraisal was designed to meet institutional challenges and evolving needs of the project.
During project preparation, key staff will be recruited for the CDP to support the PIU Director in carrying
out priority preparation activities. PIU staff will include an accountant, a procurement specialist, a
comnnunity development specialist, and an MIS specialist. During the initial phase of project preparation,
the PIU under the PSMAC Project will serve as the interim project management unit responsible for
carrying out a number of activities under the PCF grant and CDP, until the CDP PIU is set up. On-the-job
training and special training will be organized to build the capacity of CDP technical staff during project
preparation and implementation. The training will focus specifically on building the required capacity of
staff in each department to manage their functions and responsibilities in community outreach and
promotion activities, management, coordination and monitoring of the different component activities under
the project, training and technical coordination, and monitoring and evaluation. On-the-job training will
also be provided to the PIU to assist them in formulating strategies for each of the departments to be
created. Technical assistance will be provided to assist the PIU in the development of guidelines and
procedures for project activities to be incorporated in the CDP Operational Manual.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement specialist will be recruited during project preparation to develop guidelines and procedures
related to procurement activities under the project, which will be incorporated as part of the CDP
Operational Manual. A procurement assessment was carried out during Appraisal. Based on this
assessment, on-the-job and special training will be organized for those entities identified which will be
involved in procurement activities under the project. A Procurement Action Plan outlining procurement
training requirements was developed during Appraisal and is provided in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management arrangements for both the PCF grant and the CDP have been established during
project preparation by an accounting consultant familiar with Bank financial management requirements.
During this phase, and until the CDP project accountant is recruited, the consultant will maintain the
accounting system, procedures, and records for activities financed under the PCF grant. The consultant
will also be expected to train the CDP project accountant in the usage of the FMS, as well as in financial
management procedures.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
- 24 -



No major environmental issues are anticipated under the proposed project, given the relatively small size
and rehabilitation nature of most community infrastructure projects. However, certain project types such
as water supply rehabilitation schemes to be funded under the project may require special environmental
mitigation measures to protect quality of the water source (in-situ and upstream). Environmental
mitigation measures may also be needed in the case of sewage, sanitation systems and irrigation
rehabilitation works sub-projects. Environmental concerns will be mitigated in the selection and
implementation of sub-projects. The Operational Manual of the project will lay out procedures and
implementation arrangements for ensuring full consideration of environmental safeguards, in accordance
with the Bank's environmental assessment guidelines. It will describe existing environmental regulations
and standards relevant to the project and make reference to institutions at the local and central levels
responsible for issuing permits, licences and enforcing environmental standards compliance. It will also
provide detailed guidelines for the PIU and the project proposers on environmental screening, appraisal and
monitoring applied to infrastructure microprojects. Each microproject will be individually screened and
reviewed by the CDP PIU -- by specific type -- for any negative impacts, and mitigation measures will be
proposed where necessary. A sample EMP will be included in the OM for those projects with more
complex environmental impacts. Each community proposal will incorporate an environmental review
checklist, and the microproject appraisal document will adapt type-specific analysis, costs, and mitigation
measures. Training will be provided to technical specialists in the CDP to carry out implementation of
microprojects according to agreed environmental standards.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The need for an EMP will be determined on a case-by-case basis depending on the typology of the
microprojects selected by the community.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Community Implementation Committees (i.e., local government officials and citizens of communities) and
municipal governments will be the key stakeholders of the community infrastructure projects. Stakeholders
will be consulted on a case-by-case basis, depending upon the nature of the proposed project, during the
screening process, during the development of plans to address potential environmental impact, and during
microproject supervision to assess environmental aspects of microprojects. Typically, CDP promotion
staff and appraisal engineers will hold discussions on-site with the community during screening and with
both the community and the municipality in preparing and reviewing environmental assessments and
environmental management plans, if and when required. Whenever possible, experts within the
municipality will participate directly in the preparation of environmental assessments and plans.
Communities must obtain all necessary permits and clearances from the municipality before final approval
by the CDP of any project proposal. During project implementation, follow-up engineers will monitor and
supervise the quality of works and assess the environmental standards of the microprojects. In addition,
annual technical reviews will be carried out by independent consultants to assess the quality of works,
including environmental standards, of a number of selected projects of different types.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
A set of preliminary performance indicators (see Annex 1) have been developed that will monitor the
impacts of CDP's interventions, such as number and type of project proposals submitted, reflecting better
-25-



quality in terms of enhancement of environmental standards; number and type of environmental
improvement projects and indicators of quality of works; number and type of environmental projects
receiving positive evaluation, as compared to total number of projects reviewed, under the annual technical
reviews carried out. In addition, the project will finance beneficiary assessments that will include
assessments of environmental, quality of life and health impacts.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Key social issues relevant to these objectives include the following:
*   The tensions between ethnic groups in FYR Macedonia together with the spillover of the Kosovo crisis
led to the civil conflict in 2001. Different ethnic communities often have radically different perceptions
of reality and such differences have widened as a result of conflict. However, experience in a number
of communities also suggests that people of different ethnic groups can coalesce around specific issues
of concern to them. Hence the logic of this project of using community works and services as vehicles
for encouraging people to work together. Other ethnic groups have also been victims of the conflict
and may have become even more marginalized due to the focus on the two largest groups. This project
will, therefore, undertake special efforts to ensure that other minorities (i.e., the Serbs, Turks, and
Romas) are included as project beneficiaries.
*   There is a widespread sense, at least in some parts of the population, that the "conflict area" is
receiving international assistance while other needy areas of the country tend to be ignored. In fact, the
poorest parts of the country are in the East, far from the conflict area. For this reason the project
proposes to expand from its initial focus on the impact of conflict to a more general focus on poverty
reduction based on a well defined poverty targeting strategy.
*   The disintegration of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was accompanied by significant
declines in living standards. Unemployment is widespread, particularly amongst youths. While the
long-term response to this problem lies in the restoration of sustainable economic growth, which is
beyond the scope of this project, it is expected to address such concerns by helping communities to help
themselves to improve their own conditions and living standards.
The project aims to strengthen social cohesion, foster reconciliation, and minimize the likelihood of further
conflict. The expected social development outcomes of the project focus on three key areas of social
development, i.e., inclusion, participation, and security. The social development strategy implicit in the
project design includes frameworks to address all three areas. With respect to inclusion, the procedures for
community investment projects will be designed to ensure that the poor and/or vulnerable and various
ethnic groups are able to participate in and benefit from project activities. The community outreach,
information dissemination and impact monitoring component will be a specific vehicle for ensuring access
to information and the involvement of such people. With respect to participation, the project is designed as
a community-driven development project, whereby beneficiaries are intimately involved in the preparation,
design, implementation, and subsequent operation of community investment projects. The proposed project
will support community development at the local level by giving primacy to the active involvement of local
governments and communities in the decisions and activities which affect the quality of their lives, and
thereby enhance social cohesion. Finally, as for security, the project is specifically designed to lower the
risks of future conflict by encouraging people to work constructively together on activities of common
interest.
-26 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The proposed project will provide a participatory framework designed to strengthen the institutional
arrangements both at the project management level, as well as the community level, with the objective of
enhancing the overall effectiveness and accountability of the CDP PIU and of the local counterparts. The
CDP will place special emphasis on enhancing community participation mechanisms consisting of the
following stages:
(i) Investigative stage: This stage will consist of listening to the members of diverse communities regarding
their interests and capacity for participating in the project, community outreach and promotional activities.
The latter will focus on: a) institutional assessments of the local government and communities interested in
participating in the microprojects with particular attention to the structure, function and responsibilities of
these local groups; b) needs assessments/identification of these local groups in terms of priority community
investment projects; and c) training needs assessments to determine the capacity gaps of the key
stakeholders.
(ii) Consultation and Information Dissemination stage: This stage will involve consultations with local
groups involving public meetings and interviews to discuss and determine priorities and concerns that
would engender ownership and distribute information on the CDP program and on relevant Government
sectoral policies.
(iii) Negotiations/Preparation Stage: This stage will involve the close collaboration of CDP technical staff
working together with Community Implementation Committees in microproject design, planning and
management.
(iv) Implementation/Supervision Stage: This stage will enhance and support the involvement of the local
communities through the active participation of communities in the management and supervision of
microproject activities. Participatory appraisal and planning techniques will be designed to enable
communities to prioritize, plan and implement their own development and to give voice to the poor.
(v) Beneficiary Impact Assessment Stage: The impact of the project with regard to key stakeholder
participation and overall satisfaction with the CDP program will be systematically monitored throughout
the life of the project. Beneficiary assessments will be independently contracted out by the CDP to provide
feedback and evaluation from the community concerning what is perceived to be the project's direct and
indirect impacts regarding improved access and quality of services, local participation and organization,
attitudes and values, local govemrnment relations, partnerships formed, and sustainability. Such feedback
should also help stakeholders to improve their own performance.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The participatory process described above is heavily dependent on the participation of community-based
organizations (either preexisting or developed as part of the microproject preparation process). Other
nongovernmental organizations may be involved as appropriate, either as providers of services or as
instruments for articulating interests.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
As part of the organizational structure of the PIU, a Department will be created for coordinating project
activities related to the proposed Community Outreach, Information and Project Impact Monitoring and
- 27 -



Evaluation component. This Department will provide institutional support to the community infrastructure,
services, institutional strengthening, and employment components through an integrated operational
framework designed to strengthen and support institutional, structural and procedural activities at the
project management level and at the local community level related to these components. Mechanisms for
these activities will be developed to carty out effective community outreach, information dissemination and
impact monitoring under the project, as well as to enhance the effectiveness, coordination and synergies
between the different project components. As part of monitoring and evaluation, project beneficiaries will
be encouraged to reflect on their experiences with a view to providing lessons, not only for the project as a
whole, but also to help beneficiaries enhance their own effectiveness. The monitoring and evaluation
system will be designed to track the impact at project sites in terms of inclusion, participation, and security.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
A monitoring and evaluation system will be developed to track the impact at project sites in terrns of
inclusion, participation, and security. Details on this system are provided in the Project Description
Summary (Institutional and Implementation Arrangements section).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habiats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestr (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with environmental safeguards are covered in section
5.0: Environmental.
- 28 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The CDP will focus on building capacity at the local level, which, inter alia, is intended to ensure the
sustainability of the microprojects and services carried out under the project. Capacity building envisaged
under the project will be comprehensive, and will cover the wider process of developing, managing,
operating, and maintaining infrastructure facilities and community services. Sustainability will also depend
on the extent to which community commitment can be built and maintained over time through a clear
demonstration of the benefits from community investment projects. Under this approach sustainability will
be achieved through the provision of the following incentives at the local level: (a) implementation of
community investment projects which respond to priority needs of the communities; (b) assurance of
quality of works through adherence to standards, use of qualified staff, and periodic assessment; (c) a clear
definition of the coverage, and quality of community services, maintenance of service standards, use of
qualified staff, and periodic assessment; (d) economic efficiency - demonstration of benefits to local
communities in excess of direct and indirect costs; (e) generation of short-term employment at the local
level; (f) strengthening of capacity and accountability of local govemments in the development, operation,
use and maintenance of public facilities constructed under the project, and (g) the development of effective
partnerships at the local level between local governments and local community groups.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Low quality of works financed under the    M         The CDP Project will ensure good quality of
project.                                             microprojects through the following measures:
- Development and enforcement of adequate
norms and standards.
- Engagement of technical experts in the design
and supervision of works.
- Training of CDP PIU staff on norms and
standards of construction.
- Annual procurement and technical reviews.
- Bank supervision and mid-term reviews.
Lack of willingness of local communities   M         Active community participation at all stages of
to contribute, participate, and help sustain        the microproject cycle will be achieved through:
facilities.                                          - Designing of cost effective microprojects.
- Strengthening of local government capacity
and accountability on effective asset
management.
- Ensuring good quality of works through
quality enhancement and procurement.
- Development of effective training program for
the benefit of local governments and
communities.
- Building effective partnerships amongst the
key stakeholders at the local level.
The Govemment's inability to provide       M         The Government will include a line item in its
counterpart funding equivalent to a total            Annual Budget for the estimated counterpart
- 29 -



of US$968,000 on a timely basis.                     funding needed for that year. Any occurrence of
non-compliance will be brought to the attention
of Government for speedy remedial action.
Lack of public resources for operation and  M        Continuing uncertainties regarding assurance of
maintenance of facilities beyond the life of          adequate resources for municipalities under
the project.                                         decentralization may well pose a threat in this
regard. The project's emphasis on capacity
building will contribute to developing an
operational framework and needed skills to plan,
finance, and maintain facilities beyond the life of
the project.
Ineffective and/or unsustainable capacity   M        The CDP will place heavy emphasis on
building efforts.                                    developing an effective capacity building
program through:
(i) The creation of a special training and
coordination unit within the PIU, with
professional staff for organizing, and
implementing training at the local level.
(ii) The design of effective microproject training
for local communities and contractors.
(iii) The design of training programs for local
government officials in the operation and
maintenance of public assets.
(iv) Contracting of appropriately qualified
training institutions.
Recurrence of internal conflicts.          M         The CDP will be one of many donor assisted
programs to support the Government's peace
and reconciliation process through short and
medium term post-conflict operations.
High levels of tension between ethnic       S        The CDP PIU will ensure that teams involved
communities that may constrain project               with work in mixed communities will have
activities in mixed comrnunities or                  adequate representation from the relevant
preempt equitable access to services by              communities, and that they have good outreach
minority communities.                                and communication skills. In addition, the CDP
will identify credible intermediaries who can act
as agents in minority areas.
From Components to Outputs
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 30 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no apparent controversial aspects at this stage.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
v   The PIU has been established and is operational with structure, functions and staffing necessary to
start the Project implementation and satisfactory to the Association.
*   A Project Account has been opened in a bank acceptable to the Association with an initial deposit of
$100,000.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Disbursement
*   The Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted by the Borrower as a
disbursement condition under Grants and Microprojects.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
L 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
C] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Due to the nature of the project, engineering design documents would be completed once the microprojects
have been selected during the course of project implementation.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for appro a. e project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Caroline Mascarfell            /       alRutkoy                     Christiaan J. Poortman
Team Leader                      ector Ma 5erlDirector              Country Manager/Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
TSS Goal: Strengthening    1. Number of rehabilitated  1. Poverty assessment at the  1. Government commitment
social cohesion, fostering  social and economic      national level.           to address poverty and
reconciliation, and preventing infrastructure targeted to  2. Household Surveys by the  strengthen social protection is
further conflict. To attain this poor, conflict affected areas,  Department of Statistics.  maintained.
objective, the CDP will focus  mixed communities, and  3. Employment Surveys.   2. Government commitment
on small-scale community   vulnerable groups.        4. Economic reports by the  to provide counterpart
investments and related    2. Number of beneficiaries  Bank, IMF and other major  funding for the CDP project.
capacity building to support  from rehabilitated community donor agencies.      3. Public resources for
poverty reduction and the  infrastructure and services                          operation and maintenance
development of human       projects.                                            are maintained beyond the
capital.                   3. Number of community                               project.
members participating in                             4. Increased donor
short-term employment                                participation in social sector
generated under the                                  and capacity building
community infrastructure                             activities that complement the
component.                                           project.
4. Number of trained local
government officials and local
community members in the
delivery of social services.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Provide support to the     1. Improvement of the quality, - CDP progress reports.  1. Poverty targeting strategy is
Government of FYR          access and availability of  - World Bank supervision  adhered to.
Macedonia in its post-conflict community infrastructure and mission reports.    2. Project incentives are
development efforts aims at  services in poor, conflict  - Technical and Procurement enforced to maintain
fostering reconciliation   affected, mixed and       Review Reports.            communities commitment to
amongst its people, reducing  vulnerable communities.  - Beneficiary Assessments.  projects.
social tensions, and building  - Percentage of population  - Mid-Term Review report.  3. Infrastructure facilities are
local social capital.     benefiting from improved                              maintained.
social/economic infrastructure                       4. Projects approved are
and community services to                            cost-effective.
total population targeted in
regions.
- Total number and types of
projects completed by the
communities.
- Average cost per beneficiary
for completed projects.
- Reduction in women's travel
time and time spent gathering
water as a result of potable
water projects supported
under the project.
- 32 -



2. Promotion of institution  - Technical assessments of  1. Effective Training and
building at the grassroots  benefits and improved    Technical Assistance
level by assisting local   performance resulting from  Coordination Unit in the PIU
government and communities, training programs.       to handle the coordination,
to plan and manage local   - Post evaluation of the  implementation, and
investments and improve the  maintenance of facilities  supervision of the project's
decentralized management of financed under the project.  training and TA activities.
service delivery.          - Quarterly reporting on  2. Training modules and
- Timely and effective     training activities to provide  plans regularly updated to
implementation of training  the status of activities, issues, meet the changing needs.
programs responding to     and revisions in the training  3. Coordination of activities
changing needs.            plan.                     with other agencies on
- MIS generated reports    - Employment Survey       implementation capacity
providing information on the  Reports.               building programs at the local
project's training activities  - Beneficiary Assessments.  level.
including training         - MIS Generated reports on
expenditures, profiles on  capacity building.
participants and training
firms.
- Number of training
programs and trained
beneficiaries in the different
fields described in the
component description.
- Number of employment
surveys carried out in targeted
municipalities.
- Feedback from local
government and communities
on the effectiveness of the
capacity training efforts.
- Number of women trained
under the government level
training program supported
under the project.
- Increase in the number of
women participating in local
government and community
level activities, as a result of
the training received under
the project.
- Beneficiary Assessments.  1. A Community Outreach
3. Support for             - Bank-Supervision reports.  and Promotion Unit in the
inter-community integration  - Mid-Term Review reports.  CDP able to carry out its
through effective outreach  - Quarterly and Annual   functions and responsibilities
programs and partnership   Progress reports.          effectively.
building at the local level.  - Institutional Assessments  2. Presence of Local
- Number of stakeholders that carried out by CDP at local  Government representatives
participated in the promotion  level.                in Community
activities during project  - MIS generated information  Implementation Committees.
preparation.               on stakeholder participation.  3. Effective mechanisms in
- Feedback from key                                   place to actively involve local
stakeholders on: a) the                               authorities and local
- 33 -



effectiveness of coordination                        communities at all levels of
and outreach efforts of the                          the microproject cycle.
CDP PIU; b) levels of
satisfaction regarding their
participation in the
microproject cycle; and c)
levels of satisfaction
regarding information
dissemination efforts.
- Number of projects jointly
preparei by LGs and
communities.
- Number of meetings
convened between local
government, communities,
and CDP staff.
- Number of meetings
convened between CDP staff,
line ministries, NGOs, donor
agencies and Bank project
management units.
- Qualitative Assessment   1. Effectiveness of unit in
4. Enhance national level  reports.                  charge of project monitoring
development planning and  - Monitoring Survey reports.  and evaluation activities
policy formulation through  - Bank-supervision reports.  under the project.
impact monitoring and      - Mid-Term Review reports.  2. Interest in Government
evaluation of outputs      - Quarterly and Annual    officials in participating in
generated from the local  Progress reports.          activities related to surveys
development initiatives                              and assessments.
supported by the project.                            3. Attendance of key
- Number of monitoring                               Government officials at the
surveys carried out at the local                     workshops organized to
level.                                               disseminate the findings of
- Number of qualitative                              the surveys and assessments.
assessments carried out at the
local level.
- Number of workshops
conducted to discuss the
results of the surveys and
assessments and implications
for national policy
formulation.
output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Rehabilitated and      1. Number of completed     1. Beneficiary Assessments.  1. Local Governments and
maintained social and     rehabilitated infrastructure  2. Quarterly and Annual  communities are willing to
economic infrastructure   facilities, total and per  Progress reports.         participate and to sustain
- 34 -



benefiting target groups.  microproject type.        3. Mid-Term Review report.  facilities.
2. Number of completed    4. Annual procurement and  2. Government ensures budget
rehabilitated school heating  technical reviews.     for maintenance of
systems.                  5. MIS generated information rehabilitated facilities.
3. Number of school furniture on performance indicators.  3. Community members are
microprojects.                                       willing to provide
4. Percentage increase in                            contributions to the
access to clean water by the                         microproject costs.
target population.
5. Percentage increase in
attendance in student
attendance in rehabilitated
and adequately heated
schools.
6. Number and percentage of
community projects of high
technical quality and cost
effectiveness.
7. Number and percentage of
projects in conflict-affected
and mixed communities.
8. Number and percentage of
shared projects in multiethnic
communities.
9. Level of community
contribution to project
financing .
10. Client satisfaction with
the quality of infrastructure
facilities and works.
2. Short-term employment   1. Number of jobs generated  Same as above.         1. Availability of local labor.
created at the local level X   from the infrastructure                         2. Flexibility on CDP
microprojects at the                                 procedures to use labor as part
_community level.                                    of community contributions.
2. Percentage of the labor
component in microproject
cost.
3. Increased participation and 1. Number of Community  1. Same as above.       1. Effective performance by
capacity of Community     Implementing Committee                               the Training and Technical
Implementing Committees to (CICs) members who have                             Assistance Coordination
plan, implement, manage and participated in training.                          Department to be created in
sustain community         2. Number of training                                the PIU.
infrastructure projects.  modules designed for CICs.                           2. Effective training carried
3. Number of institutional                           out by the CDP technical staff.
assessments carried out at the                       3. Communities wiling to
local level.                                         participate in the training
4. Number of capacity needs                          programs.
assessments carried out at the                       4. Effectiveness of CDP PIU
local level.                                         to promote and monitor the
5. Number of CICs that have                          participation of women under
participated in the CDP.                             the project.
6. Number of community
- 35 -



infrastructure projects
operational and maintained
one and two years after
investment completed.
7. Number of women
participating in Community
Implementing Committees.
4. Increased capacity of local  1. Number of contractors that Same as above.    1. Effective training of
contractors to compete in the  have received training,                         contractors carried out under
local construction industry.  2. Number of bid-conferences                     the project.
carried out under the project.                       2. Willingness of contractors
3. Number of contractors                            to participate in training
participating in several CDP                         program.
microprojects.                                       3. Availability of qualified
contractors to participate in
training programs.
5. Community programs and  1. Number and types of    Same as above              1. Community demand exists
services, capacity building  community services projects.                      for CDP assistance.
and special initiatives targeted 2. Number and types of                         2. Supply of competent
to vulnerable groups, mixed  beneficiaries of community                        consultants to provide TA and
and conflict affected     services projects.                                   training required for
communities.               3. Number of trained                                community services projects.
communities for managing                             3. Communities are willing
and administering community                          and able to provide required
services.                                            contribution for the financing
4. Number of follow-up                               of the project.
community service projects.                          4. Timely and effective
5. Percentage of mixed                               implementation of training
minorities participating in                          programs,
community services projects.                         5. Moderate levels of tension
and conflict between ethnic
communities ensuring
equitable access to minority
communities.
6. Improved capacity of local  1. Number of persons trained  1. Beneficiary Assessment  1. Effective training of local
government (i.e. small and  in small municipalities.  reports.                  governments carried out under
medium-sized municipalities) 2. Number of training   2. Quarterly and Annual   the project.
in decentralized planning,  programs organized by    Progress reports.          2. Willingness of local
management and delivery of  training type.           3. Mid-Term review reports.  govemment officials to
social services.          3. Number of positive training 4. Annual Training Reviews. participate in training
evaluations received on    5. MIS generated Data on  programs.
training programs.        training program and       3. Availability of firms to
4. Number of projects     participants.              carry out the training.
assessed to be well managed,
supervised and maintained as
a result of the training
received
5. Client satisfaction with
regard to the training services
received.
- 36 -



7. Partnership formation at  1. Number of information  Same as above            1. Qualified Community
the local level between local  materials and promotional                        Outreach, Promotion and
government authorities and  literature distributed at the                       Monitoring and Evaluation
communities, NGOs, and the  local level.                                        unit(s) in the CDP to carry out
donor community.           2. Number of 'information                            their services effectively at the
hubs' created.                                       local level.
3. Number of municipalities                          2. Maintain citizen interest in
and villages provided services                       information dissemination
to by the 'information hub.'                         mechanisms developed under
4. Number of local                                   the project.
community members using                              3. Provide updated and
the services of the centers.                         regular informnation material
5. Number of workshops and                           at local level.
surveys carried out at the local                     4. Plan effectively workshops
level.                                               and surveys to ensure good
6. Number and composition of                         turnout of participants.
community members                                    5. CDP to regularly
attending workshops and                              strengthen services and adjust
participating in surveys.                            procedures as needed as a
7. Number of public hearings                         result of feedback received
and referendums organized at                         from clients and from
the local level.                                     on-the-job experience.
8. Number of participants
attending public hearings and
referendums.
9. Client satisfaction with
regard to community
outreach, information
dissemination and impact
monitoring services received.
8. Better informed central  1. Number of progress    Same as above.             1. Effectiveness of CDP to
government officials on the  monitoring surveys.                                organize surveys, workshops
impact of programs carried  2. Number of qualitative                            and assessments.
out at the local level.    assessments carried out at the                       2. Government interest in
local level.                                         surveys and assessments
3. Number of workshops                               carried out is maintained.
conducted to discuss results of                       3. Government interest in
the surveys and assessments                           using results of survey and
carried out and implications                         assessments in strengthening
for national policy                                  national level development
formulation.                                         planning and policy
formulation.
9. Improved capacity of CDP  1. Number of CDP staff who  1. Supervision reports.  1. Availability of time for
staff to manage and        have participated in training.  2. Mid-Term review report.  CDP staff to participate in
administer project operations. 2. Number of CDP staff who  3. Beneficiary Assessment  training.
have been promoted as a    reports.                   2. No turn overs of key staff in
result of training received.  4. Procurement and technical the CDP.
3. Length of time spent by  reports.                  3. Willingness of CDP staff to
CDP staff under each project  5. Financial audit reports.  participate in training.
activity after having received                        4. CDP to regularly
training.                                             strengthen services and adjust
4. Number of beneficiary                              procedures as needed as a
assessments highlighting                             result of feedback received
- 37 -



positive feedback on services                        from clients and from
received from the CDP.                               on-the-job experience.
- 38 -



Key Performance       | Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                  I  Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Community Investment      US$8.23 million            -Annual Beneficiary       The CDP will demonstrate
Projects                                             Assessments.              strong supervision,
- Quarterly and Annual    accounting, auditing and
Progress reports.         independent reviews.
- Progress reports from local
and foreign consultants.
- Bank Supervision Mission
Reports.
- Mid-Term Report.
- Annual Procurement and
Technical Reports.
- Annual Financial Audit
Reports.
- MIS generated data.
Local Level Institutional  US$0.37 million           Saine as above            The CDP will forge and
Strengthening                                                                  strengthen institutions at the
local level which can serve as
effective vehicles for
conmmunity empowerment.
Community Outreach,       US$0.21 million            Same as above             The CDP will create effective
Information Dissemination                                                      mechanisms and conditions at
and Project Impact                                                             the local level to inform
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                      central government officials
on the impact of programs
carried out at the local level.
Institutional Support to the  US$0.75 million        Same as above             The continuation of key staff
CDP PIU                                                                        in the PIU which have
benefited form the training
and experience provided
under the CDP.
- 39 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$8.23 million
Community Investment Projects: This component would finance on a grant basis small-scale community
works and services projects selected on a demand-driven basis with the active participation of community
groups and local governments. It would respond to both the demand and need in FYR Macedonia for
carrying out small-scale community infrastructure and community services projects. Notwithstanding the
extensive involvement of donors such as UNDP, EU and USAID in infrastructure rehabilitation, which in
general include medium- to large-scale projects, much remains to be done for small-scale rehabilitation
works at the local level - - requiring the support of an integrated participatory process. These types of
projects are critical in bringing communities to work together in designing and implementing community
projects which yield tangible, visible and immediate improvements of local living conditions designed for
the common good of the community. Such community-based initiatives can help build trust and sustain
confidence in the peace process.
1. Community Infrastructure Sub-Component: This component would address the need for rehabilitation
of small-scale social and economic infrastructure at the local level through the financing of community
investment microprojects. These investments are necessary for economic growth and employment creation,
and are essential for human development and poverty reduction. To ensure sustainability of project
outcomes, the CDP would promote institution building in rural and urban communities. Accordingly, the
CDP would finance a comprehensive capacity building and technical assistance program, benefiting
Community Implementing Committees, local governments, contractors and CDP staff.
The microproject types to be proposed and carried out by Community Implementing Committees would
focus on the renovation and rehabilitation of key social infrastructure covering education (i.e., kindergarten,
primary and secondary schools), health (i.e., primary health care facilities), water supply and small roads,
and priority economic infrastructure including, but not limited to, small-scale water supply systems,
small-scale sanitation systems, and minor irrigation works. The menu of microprojects (see project
typology in Annex 12) that could also be financed under this component includes: (i) microprojects
involving the rehabilitation or upgrading of school heating systems to ensure better school attendance
during the cold winter months; and (ii) school furniture (desks, chairs, blackboards, etc.). The maximum
size of community infrastructure projects will be set at US$200,000. The average size of microprojects is
estimated at US$100,000. In addition, this sub-component will finance consultant services for
microproject design and supervision to assure the good quality of works. Community contribution to
microprojects would be mandatory and would serve as an effective mechanism for community participation
and local resource mobilization. The community contribution will be set at 10 percent of the cost of
microprojects, with a minimum of 5 percent for poor communities, based on an assessment of poverty and
capacity to pay. Microproject appraisal criteria will be elaborated in the Operational Manual.
2. Community Social Services Sub-Component: This component would support small grants programs,
in the form of service packages, targeted to address the needs of vulnerable and disadvantaged groups in
FYR Macedonia with a view to promoting inter-community integration by actively engaging citizens in the
development process of their communities. Community services projects would focus on a wide range of
programs benefiting different groups in support of the decentralized management of basic social services.
Expenditures eligible for financing under these programs could include goods, equipment, furniture, special
-40 -



vehicles, technical services and locally initiated surveys/assessments. Some of the programs might include:
Education Sector: programs to support local govemments in organizing transportation for school children
in rural areas, scholarship programs to support education opportunities for poor students and women of
minority groups in secondary and higher education; Health Sector: community health awareness/education
programs, including dissemination of information and workshops on safe motherhood, information on
treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, water and sanitation; Social Services: programs to assist
retuming families in their communities, programs to support community-based day care centers for the
disabled, elderly and other marginalized and vulnerable groups of the population, fund raising campaigns to
support programs for the disabled, programs to support inter-ethnic activities such as sports events and
open market places, and programs for the rehabilitation of alcohol and drug abusers. The expected
outcome of such activities would be to build trust by gradually establishing dialogue among members of
different socioeconomic groups and by promoting shared activities for a common good. Sample typology
of community social services projects is provided in Annex 12. The criteria for the selection of community
social services will be developed during project preparation and incorporated as part of the project's
Operational Manual.
Project Component 2 - US$0.37 million
Local Level Institutional Strengthening: This component would complement the community investment
component, enabling local level institutions and community groups to address the needs and priorities for
local development through a capacity building program, which would be consistent with the Government's
overall development policy framework. The proposed component would also support the Government's
decentralization initiatives designed to increased the competencies and accountability of municipal
administration, increase the participation of citizens in decision-making and ultimately, empowerment at the
local level. The proposed local level institutional strengthening program would focus on two key levels, the
microproject level and the local government level.
At the Micoproject level, institutional strengthening would focus on local governments, communities and
contractors participating in community infrastructure and services microprojects. The composition of these
participating local groups will be such that there will be equitable representation of women who will benefit
from microproject training activities carried out in their communities. The focus would be on building the
capacity of these local groups to plan, manage, operate, supervise and maintain investments and improve
the quality and availability of local service provision. At every phase of the project cycle, on-the-job
training would be provided benefiting these groups and would be carried out by promotion, appraisal and
follow-up teams from the PIU. These teams would provide technical, managerial and organizational
support to these community groups, thus enhancing their capacity to perform functions related to the
community investment projects. Specific topics to be covered under the training program, would include:
(i) project identification and formulation focusing on developing project proposals together with cost
estimates; (ii) project costing and accounting; (iii) competitive bidding procedures; (iv) mobilization of
community involvement in construction and maintenance activities; (v) creation of incentives to mobilize
and maintain community involvement in social programs; (vi) management of partnerships with LGs,
NGOs, and other entities; (vii) disseminating information to community members on microproject
activities; (viii) formulation of business plans; (ix) quality control; and (x) monitoring and evaluation.
Additional training would be assessed during the course of project implementation, which may require
special training to be provided by local and/or foreign trainers.
At the local government level the project will focus on capacity building needs at the municipal level in
areas where the donor community has limited involvement. Given that much of the local level capacity
building programs supported by key donors (i.e., USAID and UNDP) are mainly concentrated in some of
the larger municipalities, the CDP will focus on a selected medium-sized and smaller municipalities. The
-41 -



training activities would be carried out in those municipalities where the CDP promotion team would be
working in and which meet the required criteria, so that training activities would be carried out in parallel
with the project cycle of community investment projects. Criteria for the selection of participating local
government officials will be developed during project preparation and incorporated in the CDP Operational
Manual. The participants selected for local government training would receive both on-the-job training
provided by the CDP PIU team and a small program of additional training in support of the Government's
decentralization efforts. This sub-component will promote and enhance the institutional linkage between
the municipality and the community which is critical in community-based development. The capacity
building program at the municipal level will focus on enhancing the capacity of selected local government
officials in developing their skills in local finance administration (i.e., financial management and
budgeting), asset management (i.e., inventory monitoring, operation and maintenance of assets), and
information dissemination (i.e., community meetings, public hearings and referendums, surveys, and
information materials). Specifically, the training will support local governments to: (i) develop, plan and
manage their own budgets; (ii) gain a better understanding of the basic concepts and applications of local
taxes and fees; (iii) acquire a basic knowledge of asset management covering inventory monitoring,
operation and maintenance of assets, and planning of future investments; and (iv) improve communication
and information flows to local communities and marginalized groups.
The capacity building program will consist of the following three training programs: a) basic training, b)
financial management training, and c) community outreach training. A description of each training
program is provided below:
Basic Training. The trainees will include municipal officials, elected and appointed, managers of
communal enterprise, and local NGO representatives. The training will be given to groups of 25-30,
delivered at a local or regional level, for all municipalities participating in the project. For medium-sized
municipalities, it is expected that there will be around 12-15 participants. The course will be of 3 days
duration, and will cover at introductory level such topics as financial management, asset management,
project design and supervision, community needs assessment and participation, and community ownership
for microprojects. The objective is to build the necessary understanding at municipal level to facilitate
effectiveness of microprojects and build knowledge of the role of the municipality in facilitating community
development. The proposed training program will be carried out in parallel of microproject promotion
activities.
Financial Management Training. This will be a specialist, hands-on, three week course available to
fnancial officers and associate officers from the 34 original municipalities, which also provide financial
services to small, neighboring municipalities. Such a program is viewed as essential to ensure that the
finance officers can play the required role in micro-project design, budgeting, supervision, and financial
reporting. It is estimated that there will be 50-60 trainees, with 25-30 trained at a time. The proposed
training program will precede microproject promotion activities.
Community Outreach Training. The 2-day course will build on the Basic Training, and will be aimed at
the same group of trainees. It will focus on community decision-making, and municipal working relations
with local communities. It will also emphasize the key tasks and issues regarding community participation
set out in the Local Self-Government Act, as well as the strengthening of women's role in decision-making
and management of community activities. The proposed training will start after all other training programs
are completed, including microproject training.
The training will be preceded by a municipal capacity assessment, to provide guidance on the level of
current experience and knowledge of potential trainees, as well as on the principal issues to be addressed in
- 42 -



the basic training course. The assessment will be carried out systematically by the Training and Technical
Assistance Coordination Unit of the CDP PIU in coordination with the Community Outreach and
Promotion Unit. It should also be noted that those engaged directly in micro-project management and
implementation will receive intensive training from the CDP PIU.
Employment Surveys. The main focus of these surveys is to strengthen the information base for
development planning in selected municipalities that have embarked upon economic development planning
at the local level. The private sector - an integral part of the local economy -- appears to be facing a
number of regulatory and physical constraints in expanding production and employment. To help develop
a better understanding of the problems faced by the private sector, the objective of the employment surveys
will be to: (i) assess bureaucratic constraints faced by local small- and medium-scale enterprises in
expanding production and employment, and to provide feedback to municipalities for streamlining the local
regulatory framework (e.g., speedier building permits and zoning); (ii) provide an assessment of perceived
needs of infrastructure support for the private sector, that should be addressed in the formulation of local
level development plans; and (iii) provide feedback for improvements in labor policy. An appropriate
framework will be designed under the project to carry out such surveys in three municipalities. Each of
these surveys would target a sample of around 100 small- and medium-sized enterprises from the databases
available at the local branches of the Association of Employers. The survey reports would be made
available to the municipalities, and the relevant ministries and agencies of Government. The survey reports
are expected to promote better dialogue between local authorities and entrepreneurs on streamlining
municipal approval processes and improving infrastructure services, and to enhance the quality of local
level development plans, and thereby contribute to an expansion of production and employment. These
survey reports would also provide valuable insights on labor policy. The guidelines and procedures for
carrying out such surveys together with sample TORs will be developed and incorporated as part of the
project Operational Manual.
As part of project preparation work, a preliminary institutional review (see Annex 14) at the local level
was carried out during Appraisal, to assess the institutional context for the project at the local level, while
also addressing the changing legal, policy, and financial framework for local governance and community
development, in order to facilitate the finalization of project design. Particular attention was given to the
identification of the needs of municipalities, local communities, and associated organizations, for capacity
building support. A number of key findings emerged from the review. One of the most important findings
is that there is a gap in donor programming in support of community development with regard to building a
link between microprojects at the community level and enhancing the understanding of municipal
authorities of their potential role in facilitating and supporting community-based initiatives to address
major priorities. The design of the CDP, as well as the planning for the capacity building component,
addresses this deficiency. A training program is currently being developed, which, once finalized, will be
incorporated in the CDP Operational Manual.
Project Component 3.- US$ 0.21 million
Community Outreach, Information Dissemination and Project Impact Monitoring and Evaluation:
This component will provide institutional support to the community infrastructure, services, and
institutional strengthening components through an integrated operational framework designed to strengthen
and support institutional, structural and procedural activities at the project management level and at the
local community level. The Mechanisms for these activities will be developed to carry out effective
community outreach, information dissemination and impact monitoring under the project, as well as to
enhance the effectiveness, coordination and synergies between the different project components.
Community outreach would be conducted through mechanisms such as workshops and meetings with
central govemnment, local comrnunities and donors. In support of the community investment projects, a
-43 -



community mapping or profiling exercise will be carried out for all communities within targeted
municipalities which might develop proposals for micro projects. Such an exercise, expected to cover some
300 communities, will be undertaken by a national research organization, utilizing a standard profiling
instrument. It will provide a solid basis of information on all potential beneficiary communities, and will
facilitate more rapid and effective planning and initiation of microprojects. Information dissemination
would be tested and carried out in a few selected municipalities though the setting up of community
information networks, organization of public hearings and referendums, and surveys. In the case of the
citizen information networks, the proposal is to select two or three already existing Community Information
Centers (CICs) located in key municipalities and use them as 'information hubs' and design networks that
would emanate from them to smaller municipalities and communities. The main objective of such networks
is to widen and intensify the municipalities' contact with citizens and provide them with critical information.
The information areas that could be covered under the program may include: entitlements and access to
social assistance programs; communal services (i.e., water and sanitation, housing and electricity);
preparing communities to cope with disaster and conflict situations; aid programs offered by humanitarian
groups; and community-based care for vulnerable groups. Impact monitoring and evaluation would be
carried out through field surveys and workshops to discuss survey findings. The aim of this component will
also be to improve communication and information flows, develop partnerships between central govenmuent
and municipal officials and local communities, marginalized groups and donors, and enhance national level
development planning and policy formulation. The component will finance consulting services and
technic'al assistance and dissemination processes (e.g., visits, workshops and surveys).
A Social Assessment proposed to be financed under the Post Conflict Fund (PCF) grant will be conducted
during project preparation to contribute to project design, notably in the areas of community outreach and
participation, by: (a) serving as a vehicle for beneficiary input to project design; (b) enhancing the project's
focus on public participation and local govemment/civil society cooperation; (c) identifying practical ways
of diminishing the potential for furither conflict (including avoiding inadvertently contributing to conflict);
and (d) identifying social, political and cultural dynamics, and issues in community relations which might
impact on project activities. Given that the results of the social assessment will not be known until after
Appraisal, it was decided at the PCD Review meeting to carry out a rapid assessment ofpriority needs of
a few selected mixed communities and conflict affected areas such as Kumanovo, Lopate, Romanovche,
Lipkovo, and Matejche. A total of 200 community members have been interviewed at both the municipal
and village levels. The results of this assessment would be used to provide valuable insights for the
selection of key selection criteria and for providing a menu of choices covering priority needs. The results
of this assessment, are expected in May 2002. The results from the institutional review carried out during
Appraisal also served as an important input to the development of mechanisms to ensure the effectiveness
of community outreach, participation, monitoring and evaluation activities carried out under the project.
Project Component 4 - US$0.75 million
Support to Project Management: This component will support the Project Management Unit through the
provision of limited office equipment (computers, software, printers, photocopy machines, fax machines)
vehicles, consultants' fees, operating costs such as communication, local travel, utilities and publication,
office supplies, fuel, vehicle insurance and inspection, vehicle maintenance and repair, training and
technical assistance, and monitoring and evaluation. The component will also finance training to staff in
the CDP PlU. Technical services and training will be provided by local advisors in areas identified on the
basis of perceived needs during the preparation and implementation of the project.
- 44 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $million  US $million
CDP Community Investment Projects                          5.53          1.51         7.04
Local Level Institutional Strengthening                    0.33         0.00          0.33
Community Outreach                                         0.19         0.00          0.19
Institutional Support to CDP PIU                           0.55         0.14          0.69
Total Baseline Cost                                        6.60          1.65         8.25
Physical Contingencies                                    0.56         0.16          0.72
Price Contingencies                                       0.54         0.05          0.59
Total Project Costsl              7.70          1.86         9.56
Total Financing Required               7.70          1.86         9.56
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US $million  US $million
Goods                                                        0.43          0.08         0.51
Works                                                        4.16          1.71         5.87
Services                                                     1.30          0.00          1.30
Training Costs                                               0.05          0.07         0.12
Community Services Grants                                    1.51          0.00          1.51
Incremental Operating Costs                                  0.25          0.00         0.25
Total Project Costs1      7.70          1.86          9.56
Total Financing Required       7.70          1.86         9.56
Identifiable taxes and duties are 1 .16 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 8.4 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 59.51% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-45 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present Value of Flows                Fiscal Impact
Economic Analysis Financial Analysis'
Taxes       Subsidies
Project Costs             Not Applicable     Not Applicable      US$1.16        Negligible
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~   ~~~~~~~~~ m illio n
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The difference between financial and
economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."
Summary of benefits and costs:
Given the demand-driven nature of the microprojects, the variation in the typology and size of
microprojects, and their wide-spread geographical distribution across FYR Macedonia (with differing
externalities), conventional ex-ante economic or financial analyses were not carried out at the appraisal
stage. However, microprojects to be financed under the project are expected to yield high social and
economic returns, since the CDP would finance simple but cost-effective social and economic infrastructure
and services (e.g. rehabilitation of schools and health clinics, potable water, minor irrigation, and access
roads). The use of competitive procurement of services and works is expected to generate savings ranging
from 10-20 percent of estimated costs for each microproject (based on experiences and analyses of other
social investment funds in the ECA region) vis-a-vis infrastructure provided through traditional government
ministries. Benefits from the project are described in Section C. Project Description Summary.
Although a full-scale economic analysis would not be carried out ex-ante, a number of selection criteria
would be used to screen microproject proposals submitted and to eliminate rnicroproject that are not
cost-effective. First, the selection of microprojects would primarily rely on demand from the villages and
communities, which would normally be required to provide an upfront financial contribution of a
maximum of 10 percent. As the selection of the microprojects would primarily rely on demand, it is likely
that the proposed microprojects will be economically viable. In addition, the CDP PIU would prioritize
applications according to several socio-economic indicators, including the number of beneficiaries and
investment cost per beneficiary. Feasibility studies will be carried out for each proposed microproject. In
addition to the site surveys and technical/environmental reviews of the proposed infrastructure, criteria
covering technical, social, economic, and financial aspects will be used for each type of infrastructure and
service to assess overall economic viability of the project.
The use of project funds in a cost effective manner is an issue that will be addressed during the course of
the project. However, the absence of a suitable track record of completed microprojects precludes the
possibility of addressing this issue in the early stages of the CDP. Instead, during the period up to the
Mid-term review, the focus would be on recording of actual costs of completed microprojects, estimated
costs of microprojects in the pipeline, and the composition of such costs in terms of materials, labor, and
overheads. The data thus obtained and recorded in the MIS would be used to develop monitorable
benchmarks of cost-effectiveness. These benchmarks will then be inputted into the project's MIS (see
below).
- 46 -



To ensure the cost-effectiveness of individual microprojects, a unit cost database will be established to
assess various norms and standards, costs per labor day of employment, cost per beneficiary and possible
rates of return for different types of microprojects (such as water supply and schools). This would help the
CDP PIU to arrive at least-cost solutions to infrastructure needs. In the case of services, extra training
costs anticipated under the new project, and other new activities that will be financed under the CDP, unit
costs have still to be determined and reflected in the MIS. Beneficiary impact assessments throughout the
life of the project will ascertain the impact of pilot microprojects on communities, and will enable the CDP
PIU to gain a better understanding about who in terms of gender, age, socio-economic group and
vulnerable status is actually benefiting. Some assessment will be made of the impact of wages on household
incomes.
The carrying out of a full scale cost-effectiveness analysis will be discussed during the mid-term review of
the project, based on the progress in implementing community microprojects. Such an analysis will
include: (i) the project rationale within the broader economic context of the Government's economic
recovery program and post-conflict priorities, as well as the Bank's country assistance strategy; (ii)
effective targeting of project funds to conflict-affected and poor areas; and (iii) and cost-effectiveness in the
use of funds compared to those of government programs or NGO sponsored projects. At a detailed level,
such an analysis will include: (a) direct costs covering labor, materials, and service costs at site; (b)
overheads, which are essentially PIU office costs; (c) short-term employment created; (d) the increased
demand for materials and services; and (e) cost-effectiveness indicators. The data for this analysis will be
generated by the MIS which is to be operationalized. The analysis will also include an assessment project
impact as perceived by the populations benefitting from the microprojects.
Another important benefit from the CDP is that the Government will be able to demonstrate that the CDP is
a cost-effective, transparent, and an efficient vehicle for channeling small arnounts of funds to FYR
Macedonian communities to raise their living standards, as well as gathering data on poverty and the
poorest communities for the use of the Government.
Main Assumptions:
(i) Government commitment throughout the life of the CDP, and disbursement of government financial
contributions in a timely manner.
(ii) Community participation in the formulation of microprojects, and provision of their financial
contributions as required.
(iii) Sufficient capacity to at the local level to plan, implement, and manage microprojects on a sustainable
basis.
(iv) The required technical norms and standards are maintained in the design and construction phases of
microprojects.
(v) All project activities are carried out in a transparent and accountable manner.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
The cost-effectiveness analysis referred to above will include the following indicators:
(a) the average cost per each type of microproject; and
(b) impact and efficiency indicators, examples of which are listed below:
Microprojects                      Indicators
-47 -



Potable Water                        Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit of pipe
(Urban and Rural)                    length.
Irrigation                            Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit of pipe length,
Cost per Irrigated hectare.
School Construction/Rehab.            Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit area.
These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g. unit project costs of alternative
project designs or international standards.
- 48 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD                      :
I Year 1| Year 2    | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          2.6       3.3       3.1       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.2       0.2       0.2       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs        2.8        3.5       3.3       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Financing             2.8       3.5       3.3       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 1.5        1.8       1.8       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Government               0.3       0.3        0.3       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.8        1.2       1.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Communities                0.2        0.2       0.2       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    2.8       3.5       3.3       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-49 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
General
6.1 Procurement of all works, goods and technical services under the project will follow the Procurement
Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Credits and IDA Credits" published in January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Procurement of consulting services under
the project will follow the Consultants Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The
procedures outlined in these Guidelines apply to all contracts financed in whole or in part from the Bank
Credit. Project activities not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with procurement
procedures agreed between the respective financing organizations and the Government.
6.2 The project will be financed by an IDA Credit of US$5.0 million equivalent, and a Government
counterpart and co-financing of US$4.56 million equivalent. The aggregate cost of the project is US$9.56
million equivalent.
Notification of Business Opportunities
6.3 A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be published in the UN "Development Business" around
the period of Credit Negotiations and would be annually updated. For ICB goods contracts and large-value
consultants contracts (more than US$200,000), Specific Procurement Notice would be advertised in the
Development Business and national press, and in the case of NCB, in a major local newspaper (in the
national language).
Procurement Management
6.4 The FYR Macedonia Community Development Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will have the
overall responsibility for the management of procurement activities under the project. The procurement
arrangements under the project are primarily based on the Bank's appraisal of the existing procurement
management capacity of the interim PSMAC Project Implementation Unit set up in the Ministry of
Finance. The Capacity Assessment report and action plan are shown in Table B2 to this Annex.
6.5 Delegation of Procurement Function. The CDP PIU may delegate the execution of procurement and
contracting to the Community Implementation Committees (e.g. to community-based organizations, NGOs
and local communities under selected micro-projects). Such delegation of procurement to these committees
would be with the prior agreement of the Bank. Procurement responsibilities, procedures and sample
documentation are described in detail in a PIU Operational Manual (OM). While the execution of
procurement and contracting responsibility may be delegated to the Community Implementation
Committees, the financial management of the project and payments shall be carried out by the PIU itself.
Procurement Scope and Procedures Arrangements
6.6 The Project will finance the procurement of goods and technical services, works, consultant services
and training contracts and incremental operating costs to support local institutional strengthening and
institutional support to the PIU. In addition, the project will also finance: (i) demand-driven Community
Infrastructure microprojects (US$ 3.44 million), financing all civil works; (ii) Community Grants
- 50 -



(Community Grants) contracts (US$ 0.50 million) covering community services type projects, to be
executed by Community Implementation Committees, fnancing goods, works, technical services and
training. Table A summarizes the project costs by procurement arrangements. The procurement plan is
shown in Table B 1. A summary assessment of procurement capacity of the implementing agency is
presented in Table B2 and the Bank's review processes is shown in Table B. For procurement financed by
the Bank Credit, the Borrower shall use the Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents, Standard Form of
Consultant Contracts and Request for Proposals (RFP), and Standard Bid Evaluation Forms.
6.7    Procurement of CDP Microproiects
The project will finance CDP Microprojects Civil Works at a total aggregate of US$ 3.44 million
equivalent, under two types: Type 1 - direct financing to communities to implement small-scale community
identified subprojects and Type 2 - heating for schools. The CDP PIU will contract out microproject
works through Community Implementation Committees to individuals, private contractors, and community
based organizations following procedures detailed in the OM and Financing Agreement. Microproject
works contracts would be ranging up to a maximum US$ 200,000. Procurement of Microprojects Civil
Works will be based on Community Participation Procurement (CPP) as described under Section 3.15
of the Procurement Guidelines. The relevant procurement procedures, described in detail in the OM,
include: National Competitive Bidding and Minor Works procedures. The procedures would require
local advertisement and public bid opening in line with the sample bidding documents and standard contract
forms specifically developed for community application under microprojects as attached to the OM.
Nongovermmental organizations, local contractors and other community-based organizations, registered
according to legislation, will be allowed to bid. Other procurement related to microprojects, e.g. school
furniture and design and supervision, will be executed by the PIU under the procedures listed in 6.9 and
6.10.
6.8    Procurement of Community Grants For Community Social Services (Community Grants)
Procurement of the Community Grants will be based on Section 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines for
Community Participation Procurement (CPP) at total aggregate of US$ 0.50 million, depending on the
type of services (including a mix of goods and technical services) being procured, following criteria and
procedures acceptable to the Bank as described in the OM. These criteria include, inter alia: (i) the type of
community services to be provided, (ii) the agencies eligible to provide said services, and (iii) the procedure
for purchase, as defined and discussed in the OM. Contracts under the Community Grants are generally not
expected to exceed US$25,000 and the exact mix of goods and technical services to be financed will depend
on the results of demand-driven Community Grants identification processes undertaken by communities.
6.9    Procurement of Goods and Technical Services. The project will finance the procurement of
goods and technical services (US$0.51 million) including office equipment and furniture, computer and
vehicles etc. as well as school furniture as shown in Table B 1. Goods will be grouped to the extent
possible and considering project objectives, in package sizes and homogenous groupings that will
encourage competitive bidding. These goods and technical services contracts are independent of those
included under Community Grants contracts. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
(i)  International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods contracts estimated at more than
US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract, will be procured using International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines. Bid documents for ICB
will be prepared in accordance with the Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for
- 51 -



Procurement of Good.
(ii) International Shopping (IS) and/or National Shopping (NS). IS procedures will be
used for the purchase of goods estimated to cost per contract less than US$ 100,000 equivalent
per contract, covering vehicles, computers and printers etc. NS procedures will be used for the
purchase of goods estimated to cost per contract less than US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract,
covering office equipment and furniture etc. IS/NS procedures applied would be consistent with
the provisions of the Bank Procurement Guidelines. The aggregate amounts for IS and NS
procurement are estimated at US$ 0.07 million and US$ 0.02 million, respectively. The Bank's
ECA Regional sample format for Intemational Shopping "Invitation to Quote" available on the
ECA Procurement Web Site will be applied. The IS format will be modified for use in National
Shopping.
(iii) National Competitive Bidding (NCB). These procedures would be used for contracts up
to US$ 100,000 for school fumiture up to an aggregate of US$ 0.42 million. The Bank's ECA
Regional sample bidding documents for NCB Goods available on the ECA Procurement Web
Site will be applied.
6.10 Procurement of Consulting Services and Training. Contracts for consultant services and training
as shown in Table B I (US$ 1.12 million) will be packaged in a manner that will combine related skills and
services, in order to attract competition, improve quality of services, and reduce the number of contracts to
be managed by the PIU. The following methods of selection would apply to the packages under different
project components as detailed in Table B1. The contracts under these procedures would be directly
executed by the PIU:
(i)  Fixed Budget Selection (FBS) procedures will be used for services on design and
supervision for the microprojects, costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, for an
aggregate value of US$ 0.25 million.
(ii) Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures would be used for a technical auditing services
contract, for an aggregate value of US$ 0.01 million.
(iii) Consultant Qualification (CQ) procedures would be used for contracting specialized
firms for contracts, largely devoted to local training contracts and studies, surveys and
assessments, costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, for an aggregated amount of
US$ 0.48 million..
(iv) Individual Consultants (IC) would be hired in accordance with Section V of the
Consultant Guidelines. Individual consultants would be used for small assignments of short-term
duration such as special studies, training for implementation agencies and contractors, technical
advisors for the project management as well as PIU staff consultant fees, etc. for an aggregate
amount of US$ 0.32 million.
(v)  Single Source Selection (SSS) procedures would be used for contracting services up to an
aggregate of US$0.07 million, for the community profiling contract and for setting up the citizen
information networks to be developed in a few selected municipalities under the CDP. Regarding
the citizen information networks, it is proposed to engage the services of the Local Government
Reform Project (LGRP) consulting agency. This independent agency has set up, with USAID
funding, twelve citizen information centers (CICs) in large and important municipalities in
Macedonia, to address the serious lack of information at the local level. These centers are the
first of their kind in the country. The LGRP agency is unique and exceptional in nature in setting
- 52 -



up such CICs. These centers were visited by the Appraisal mission and were deemed to be well
designed and found to be effectively disseminating critical information to citizens at the local
level. The services provided at these centers include information on areas such as social
assistance entitlements, legal assistance, and information in the form of a number of booklets and
hand-outs, as requested by citizens. The proposal under the CDP is to select two to three of these
CICs and use them as 'information hubs' and design networks that would emanate from them to
smaller municipalities and communities. The main objective of such networks is to widen and
intensify the municipalities' contact with citizens and provide them with critical information.
The LGRP agency would be hired to: (i) design the framework for the proposed citizen
information networks; (ii) operationalize such networks; and (iii) monitor progress and assess the
impact of such networks. .
(vi) Expenses for study tours and the training costs paid by the PIU under the project will be
covered under training category and disbursed based on SOEs up to an aggregate of US$ 0.11
million.
6.l IIncremental Operating Costs. The office rent incurred under the project would be financed by the
Government (US$0.14 million). The operating costs incurred by the PIU for communications, utilities,
office supplies and maintenance, fuel and vehicle operation and maintenance would be financed under the
Credit for the duration of the project (US$0.12 million).
6.12 Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of goods and services for the project would be carried out in
accordance with the agreed procurement plan (Table B 1), which would be updated annually, included in the
progress report, and reviewed by the Bank.
(i) Prior Review
Goods and Technical Services: Prior review of bidding documents, including review of
evaluation, recommendation of award and contract would be conducted for all ICB. The first
two IS, NS and NCB contracts would require prior review.
Consulting Services and Training: Terms of reference for all consulting assignments would be
subject to prior Bank review. Requests for Proposal (RFP), short lists, terms of condition of
contracts as well as evaluation reports and recommendation for award would be prior reviewed
by the Bank for contracts for individual consultants above US$25,000 and firms above
US$50,000. All documents and recommendations involving sole source contracting would be
subject to Bank prior review.
After award of contracts, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a contract
resulting in an increase or decrease above 15 percent of the original amount, the Bank would undertake a
prior review of such modifications (including modifications to contracts for consulting services).
(ii)   Post Review. Following the award of procurement contracts, the Bank reserves the right to
conduct Post Reviews of any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a contract which
would result in a significant change in the scope of the contract (Terms of Reference in the case of
consultant services) and/or increase or decrease of more than fifteen percent of original contract amount.
Those contracts below the Bank's prior review threshold, are subject to the Bank's ex-post review. Periodic
- 53 -



ex-post review by the Bank of not less than 1 in 5 procurement contracts will be undertaken during regular
supervision missions.
(iii)  Grants: The two initial contracts under the Community Grants awarded each year, regardless of
value, will be subject to prior review by the Bank. The documents submitted for Bank prior review
include, inter alia, documents describing the scope and terms of the competition for services, evaluation
report, and draft contract.
(iv)   Micro-Projects:  The initial two micro-project works contracts awarded each year, regardless of
value, will be subject to prior review by the Bank. The documents submitted for Bank prior review
include, inter alia, bidding documents for NCB works, "Invitation to Quote" for Minor Works, evaluation
report and draft contract.
6.13 Custom Duties and Taxes
All custom duties and taxes for goods specifically imnported for the project and for income taxes for all
technical assistance would be financed by the Borrower.
6.14 Action Plan for strengthening Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement
The following action plan is recommended to strengthen the procurement administration capacity of the
PIU:
1. The procurement staff of the PIU will be recruited, at the latest in June, 2002. The TOR for the
position will require experiences in public sector procurement or in working with intemational
organizations, preferably with the Bank. The candidate should be proficient in English as well.
2. Initiating a Project Launch Workshop preferably before the credit effectiveness, as part of the
project implementation/capacity building initiatives, especially in procurement.
3. Based on the qualification of the hired Procurement staff to be hired, training on procurement
management will be arranged for him/her either in ILO, Turin or under other training programs, to
be financed by the PCF Community Grants. The procurement training for other staff in the PIU
shall be provided at the launch workshop.
4. Supervision of the procurement activities in the project by the Bank every 6 months.
5. Periodic ex-post review by the Bank of I in 5 contracts during the supervision missions.
- 54 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB           Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00             1.72          1.72         2.43         5.87
(0.00)          (1.44)         (1.44)       (0.00)      (2.88)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.42           0.09         0.00         0.51
(0.00)          (0.36)         (0.08)       (0.00)      (0.44)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           1.12         0.18         1.30
(Consulting Services)                (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.97)        (0.00)      (0.97)
4. Training                          0.00            0.00           0.11         0.00         0.11
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0. 1)       (0.00)      (0. I 1)
5. Community Grants                  0.00            0.00           0.50          1.01        1.51
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.50)       (0.00)      (0.50)
6. Incremental Operating             0.00            0.00           0.12         0.14         0.26
.Costs                              (0.00)           (0.00)        (0. I 0)      (0.00)      (0. 0.)
Total                             0.00             2.14          3.66          3.76        9.56
(0.00)          (1.80)         (3.20)       (0.00)       (5.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Other Includes:
1. Works: "Other" includes packages to be procured through Minor Works under Community Participation
Procurement.
2. Goods: "Other" includes packages to be procured through intemational and national shopping,
3. Consulting Services: "Other" includes selection procedures of fixed-budget, CQ, least cost, single-source and
individual consultants.
4. Community Grants: "Other" includes goods, works and related services under Community Participation
Procurement.
5. Incremental Operating Costs: "Other" includes communications. utilities, office supplies and maintenance, fuel
and vehicle operation and maintenance etc.
3/ Non-Bank Financed includes donor contributions of US$2.00 million and associated community and
govemment contributions for the civil works to finance taxes (US$0.43 million). In addition, NBF includes
donor/govemment financing of design and supervision for works (US$0.18 million), donor/government financing
of community Community Grants (US$1.01 million), and govemment financing of office rent (US$0.14 million).
- 55 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Section 1: The following procurement thresholds are suggested:
NCB              is              NS         Micro-Project Community          % of Credit
s       Grants              subject to
prior review
80%/
Works
Procurement                                                      Up to $200,000
thresholds:
Individual and                                                   Aggregate:
aggregate                                                        $3.44 million
Goods
Procurement     Below $100,000 Below $100,000   Below $50,000                   Up to $25,000
thresholds:     Aggregate:      Aggregate:      Aggregate:                      Aggregate:
Individual and  $ 0.42 million  $0.07 million   $0.02 million                   $0.50 million
aggregate
Prior Review    First 2 contracts First 2 contracts  First 2 contracts  Each year first  Each year first two
two contracts  contracts regardless
regardless of  of value
value.
Fixed-Budget   Consultant       Least Cost       Individual    Single-Source
(firms)        Qualifications                    Consultants
(firms)
Consultants     Aggregate:      Aggregate:      Aggregate:       Aggregate:     Aggregate:
$0.25          $0.48            $0.01            $0.32         $0.07
million        million          million          million       million
Prior Review    Shortlist, TORs, Shortlist, TORs,  Shortlist and  Shortlist,    All TORs, and draft
evaluation     evaluation       TORs.            TORs,         contracts
reports and draft reports and draft              evaluation
contracts for all contracts for all              reports and
contracts above  contracts above                 draft contracts
$50,000        $50,000                           for contracts
above $25,000
- 56 -



1!~~~        _ g __ Xf  __Xi
_~~~~    _ _ _     _I
-~~~_ __- _U _ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~8
~~88~I  2~B888  j  M f



Note: Given the demand-driven nature of Micro-Projects Civil Works and Community Grants, the above Procurement Plan
does not include procurement activities under these two categories.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment          High
Average frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: once every 6 months (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Table B2. Summary of Findings on Procurement Capacity Assessment
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirements
The CDP PIU is expected to be established in June 2002. The PIU of the Bank's Public Sector
Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC) will provide support, on an interim basis, with the
carrying out of a limited number of project preparation activities for the CDP, which are proposed
to be financed under the PCF Community Grants.
Arrangements for project management will be carried out in three phases. The first phase of
project management will be to establish interim arrangements in the PIU of the Public Sector
Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC), to cover the transitional period up to the
establishment of the CPD PIU. The second phase will take place when the new CDP PIU has
been established and management arrangements set up under the interim PIU are transferred to
this unit. The third phase of project management will begin with the fulfillment and declaration of
project effectiveness and will mark the official beginning of project implementation.
The CDP PIU will be delegated with the overall responsibility for procurement administration and
will coordinate with the Ministry of Finance and the institutional units responsible for the
implementation of the project. The CDP PIU will undertake all major procurement of civil
works, goods and consultant services for the project, under NCB and Community Participation in
Procurement, etc.
The procurement risk rating to the PIU is "High" due to the existing country environment. The
Interim PIU staff including the Procurement Officer were involved in the management of the
procurement of the PSMAC and have accumulated some experience under the above project.
However, the new CDP PIU is expected to be only in place by Credit effectiveness. In order to
build and maintain strong management capacity in the newly founded CDP PIU, it is
recommended that the staff undergo appropriate training. An intensified training program has
been proposed to be financed under the PCF Community Grants to build the capacity of CDP
technical staff including special training for the procurement staff in ILO, Turin. Technical
Assistance will be required in compiling the Operation Manual (OM) for CDP.
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)or Country Procurement Strategy Paper: A CPAR for
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was completed by the Bank on December 15, 2001. For this
project, the Government will follow the agreed Bank procurement procedures as described in this
documents and in the Development Credit Agreement.
Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by negotiations
Yes No X
- 58 -



Section 3: Training, Information and Development of Procurement
Estimated Date of Project Launch Workshop: Before Credit Effectiveness
Estimated Date of Publication of General Procurement Notice: May 2002
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business: Yes No X
Domestic Preference for GoodsYes X No Domestic Preference for WorksYes No X
Retroactive Financing
Yes       No    X       Explain
Co- Financing: Yes
Advance Procurement: Yes No X
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's Staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement
in the Project: Community Development Project
Name: Yingwei Wu (Ext: 35291)
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: There is no procurement capacity in
the Field Office in Skopje. Technical support will be provided by HQ PAS as appropriate.
- 59 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
The total cost of the Community Development Project (CDP) is estimated at USD 9.56 million of which IDA
would finance USD 5 million. The project is expected to be co-financed by the Government of the
Netherlands (USD 1.5 million) and the Government of Norway (USD 0.5 million). However, at the time of
the financial management assessment, the Bank had not received the confirmation of the proposed
co-financing arrangements.
In order to support the preparation of the CDP, a Post-Conflict (PCF) grant of an amount of USD 1 Million
will be available. In particular, the PCF will help to set up an interim PIU for the CDP and would also
finance some pilot activities and project preparation.
A review of the financial management arrangements has been carried out between April 15 to 19, 2002 to
determrine whether the financial management arrangements established by the accounting consultant, which
are currently in place, are acceptable to the Bank. These arrangements were assessed to be capable of
satisfactorily recording all transactions and balances, supporting the preparation of regular and reliable
reports (FMRs) to the Bank and by the Government of Macedonia. These arrangements will be subject to
external auditing by auditors acceptable to the Bank. The conclusion is that these arrangements satisfy the
Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
The summary of the fnancial management assessment and conclusions are the following:
Financial Management Assessment Radng                              Comments
1. Implementing Entity           Satisfactory  The interim arrangements in which a consultant has set-up
the FM system and will maintain the accounting until the
project accountant will be hired are satisfactory although
this does not assure that the accountant will have the
capacity to maintain properly the system once it has
assumed full FM responsibilities.
2. Funds Flow                     Satisfactory  Although the co-financing arrangements have not yet been
fully defined, the flow of funds are clearly defined.
3. Staffing                        Partially  The financial management of the PCF are currently handled
Satisfactory  by an experienced consultant, but we will need to wait until
the accountant is hired before we can consider all the
financial management arrangements finalized.
4. Accounting Policies and       Satisfactory  Financial management arrangements are in place and
Procedures                                    procedures are described in an Accounting Manual.
5. Internal Audit                   N/A       There is no internal audit within the design of this project.
6. External Audit                Satisfactory  Appointment of the auditor will be carried out by 30
November 2002.
7. Reporting and Monitoring      Satisfactory  Accounting system is in place and format of FMRs have
Ibeen agreed with the Bank .
8. Information Systems           Satisfactory  This locally developed software package is acceptable
- 60 -



9. Disbursement                 Satisfactory  Disbursement arrangements are defined
10. Risk Management              Satisfactory  Overall Control Risk is Moderate
Overall Financial Management     Satisfactory
Rating:
Countryfinancial management issues: The Bank has not carried out a CFAA in Macedonia therefore
there is no formal assessment of country risk. To minimize financial risk, the Bank should maintain the
functional and operational autonomy of project execution through the PIU in order to maintain appropriate
fiduciary safeguards.
Implementing entity and staffing: Implementation of the CDP will be carried out by a PIU with a legal
status of that of an autonomous agency reporting to the Ministry of Finance. The PSMAC PMU will carry
out, on an interim basis, some preparation activities until the CDP PIU will be established. The
establishment of the CDP PIU, including adequate staffing , is a condition of effectiveness.
The CDP PIU, governed by a Supervisory Board, will be headed by a Director and would be formed by
three departments and a number of units. The project's financial management will be carried out by the
Accounting unit within the Administration Department. The unit will be staffed by one accountant.
During the interim period the financial management arrangements have been established by a local
accounting consultant that will also maintain the accounting of the project until the project accountant is
hired. The consultant is fully familiar with the Bank financial management and disbursement requirements
and the system that was set-up is fully satisfactory.
Accounting arrangements: the consultant has established all the financial management arrangements for
the project, including the PCF, which consist in the following actions:
1.    selection, purchase and delivery of an accounting software;
2.     customization of the software to the reporting needs of the project
3.    testing of the software;
4.     design of the FMRs to the project activities and components;
5.     design of the PIU financial management procedures; and
6.     preparation of an Accounting Manual for the project.
The accounting consultant will also be responsible for the delivery of an accounting software and the
customization of the package to the needs of the project. The accounting arrangements are based on this
software which is able to produce the reports required by the Bank. The format of the FMRs have been
agreed with the Bank Financial Management Specialist. Once the CDP PIU has set-up its own office
space and purchased the required computers, the software developed by the accounting consultant will be
transferred to the PIU.
Until the project accountant is hired, the consultant will also handle the accounting and disbursement
matters related to the PCF grant. Once the accountant is hired the consultant will:
l.    transfer the system to the project PIU;
2.    train the accountant;
3.     deliver hands-on assistance; and
4.     be available for assistance until December 31, 2002.
The accounting system for the PCF grant and the CDP are based on the same accounting software. Within
the package there are two separate Chart of Accounts, one for the PCF grant and the other for the CDP,
which feed into two separate Accounting Journals each of them producing separate reports for the Bank
(FMRs) and for the Macedonian Government. The accounting system is based on the accrual method.
- 61 -



Considering that the sub-component 'Community Social Services', under the first Project Component, will
support a small grants program, the maximum amount of which will be USD 25,000, the accounting
system of the CDP will record only the transfer of funds from the project Special Account to the grant
beneficiary's bank account. All accounting transactions related to the use of these funds will have to be
recorded by a simple accounting system established by each of the grant beneficiaries.
In order to standardize these accounting system and allow proper control of the beneficiary's accounts by
the PIU, the consultant has prepared an accounting Manual that describes a simple accounting system
(based on a cash book) that the beneficiaries need to establish. This Manual is included also in the Project
Accounting Manual and will be translated into Macedonian in order to be easily used by the beneficiaries
as a reference guide. The accounting system described by the Manual has been designed keeping in mind
that the accounting capacity of the grant recipients is quite low and that the overall amount of each grant is
quite limited.
In order to control that each of the grant beneficiaries' accounting systems are properly handled, the project
accountant will have to carry out regular controls of these systems.
Reporting, monitoring and information system: The Charts of accounts for both the PCF and CDP has
been prepared. Accounts however will be added during project implementation, whenever is needed, in
order to satisfy accounting needs.
The project will prepare the following set of FMRs (for the PCF and for the CDP), which format has been
agreed with the Bank FMS:
Financial reports:
I.     Sources and Uses of Funds Statement
2.     Uses of Funds by Project Activity Statement
3.     Special Account(s) Statement
Project progress report:
4.     Physical progress report
Procurement reports:
5.     Contract expenditure report (consultant's services)
6.     Contract expenditure report (goods and works)
These reports will be delivered to the Bank each quarter, within thirty days of the end of the quarter. In
addition to these reports, the PIU will manually prepare simple statistical report required by the Ministry of
Finance.
Internal control mechanism on the application and use of funds, including authorization and regular
checklist, are described in the Accounting Manual. Considering that the project accountant will handle the
accounting and disbursement for the whole project, segregation will be limited to authorization. During
financial management supervision the Bank FMS will assess if procedures are adequately followed.
The accounting system is based on an accounting package developed by a Macedonian software house
(Info Soft Ing). The same package has been already adopted by other Bank-financed projects and has been
successfully tested. The system meets the Bank requirements.
Risk analysis: The following table summarizes the estimation of the financial management risks associated
with the project:
- 62 -



Risk Assessment
H         SMNComments
Inherent Risk
1. Country Financial                        The Bank never carried out a CFAA in Macedonia therejbre
Management Risk                            there is noformal assessnient of country risk
Recommendation: Maintain the functional and operational
autonomv of project execution through the PIU so as to
provide the appropriate fiduciaty safeguards.
2. Project Financial                        The interim FM arrangements for the project are fiull
Management Risk                            satisfactoiy. However, although the consultant that is
r esponsible on an interim basis for these FM arrangements
isfainiliar with the Bank FM and disbursement
requirements, the PIU accountant has not yet been
appointed. At this stage we are not able to assess the
capacity and the skills of this staff to which the
arrangements will be handed over andfor this reason we
have rated the risk substantial.
Recommendation: Bank should monitor the selection
carried out by tlhe PIU of a capable and honest accountant
for the project
3. Perceived Corruption                     Perceived corruption is substantial.
Recommendation: Maintain the functional and operational
autonomy ofproject execution through the PIU with
effective procurement monitoring.
Overall Inherent Risk
Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity                     Risk is substantial because these are interimn arrangements
and we are not sure about the transfer of these
arrangements from the PSMAC PlUto the CDP PIU.
Recommendation: appointment of Project director and
accountant and establishment of the CDP PIU is a priority.
2. Funds Flow
3. Staffing                                 The control risk related to staffing is substantial because
the interim FM arrangements have been set up and are
handled by/ a capable consultant but project accountant has
not yet been hired. Hand-over of the FM arrangements can
be critical.
Recommendation: appointment of the project accountant
and substantial hands-on training is criticalfor the
successful implementation of the FM arrangements.
- 63 -



4. Accounting Policies and
Procedures
5. Internal Audit                           This project has no Internal Audit arrangements. This can
be considered acceptable, considering the size of the
project.
6. External Audit
7. Reporting and Monitoring
8. Information Systems
Overall Control Risk
H - High      S - Substantial     M - Moderate         N - Negligible or Low
Proposed Action Plan: It is concluded that the project fnancial management arrangements satisfies the
Bank's minimum requirements. There is however few actions that need to be taken to strengthen these
arrangements.
Actions                        Deadlines
1. Appointmnent of project accountant                         15 June 2002
3. Budgeting for remaining part of FY02                       30 July 2002
2. Appointment of auditor for FY02 audit                   30 November 2002
Condition: Hiring of the project accountant, together with other key staff of the CDP PIU, is a condition of
effectiveness of the project.
Supervision Plan: financial management supervisions will be carried out regularly by the project FMS, at
least once a year.
The FMS will also:
1.     conduct a financial management supervision before project effectiveness;
2.     review the FMRs as soon as these are submitted to the Bank (on a quarterly basis); and
3.     review the Audit reports and Management Letters and follow up issues during project supervision.
The first Audit report is due by June, 2003.
2. Audit Arrangements
Audits. The first audit will cover FY02 and audit will include the PCF and the CDP. The PIU, with the
assistance of the Bank FMS, will be responsible for drafting the audit TORs and for selecting the auditor.
Considering that the project has not yet become effective, the appointment of the auditor for FY02 can be
completed by November 30, 2002. The PIU will submit its first audited financial statements to the Bank,
for the year ended 31 December 2002, within six months of the end of the project fiscal year.
The PIU will be responsible for ensuring that the project financial statements, special accounts and
Statement of Expenditures (SoEs) are audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The audit
report shall be in a format in accordance with Intemational Standards on Auditing.
Expenditures related to the financial audits will be covered by the Borrower.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
- 64 -



Disbursements under the Credit will be based on traditional methods (e.g. replenishment of the Special
Account based on Statements of Expenditure). Once the Credit is approved, the CDP PIU will open and
maintain a Special Account for IDA funds. Additional accounts will be opened for the Government's
counterpart contribution, the communities' cofmancing of microprojects, and cofinanciers. Considering the
low capacity in the Country and that this will be a new PIU, the report-based disbursement should not be
introduced in this project.
Transfers of funds from the project to cover expenditure categories will have the following flow:
* payments in USD will be disbursed directly from the Special Account or alternatively made through
direct payments; and
*   payments in Macedonian denars will have to be deposited into a Treasury Account after which
payments will be executed once confirmation is received by the Treasury Dept. of the MoF.
Retroactive Financing for an amount of SDR 300,000 (7% of the Credit) covering project start-up
expenditures on consultant fees, goods, furniture, and equipment incurred after May 1, 2002 up to Credit
effectiveness planned for July 1, 2002, was confirmed during Negotiations.
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed in accordance with the guidelines in the "Disbursement
Handbook". The project has been designed to be carried out over a period of three years and the project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 2005. Disbursement categories, amounts and percentages to be
financed under each category are presented in the Table C below.
- 65 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$miliion         Financing Percentage
1. Community Grants for Community          0.50                        100%
Social Services
2. Civil Works                             2.38                         84%
3. Goods                                                  100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
Component 1                                0.35          local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and
Component 4                                0.09            80% of local expenditures for items
procured locally
4. Consultant Services                                    100% of services of foreign firms and
Component 1                                0.22                      individuals;
Components 2,3,4                           0.75              87% of services of local frms;
85% of services of individual local
consultants.
5. Training Costs & Study Tours            0.11                         100%
6. Incremental Operating Costs             0.10                    100%, 90%, 70%
7. Unallocated                             0.50
Total Project Costs                        5.00
Interest during construction       0.00
Total                                      5.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement arrangements under the project will be carried out using SOE procedures for (i) goods and
works (microprojects) costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (ii) for services of consulting firns costing
less than US$50,000; (iii) for services of individual consultants costing less than US$25,000; and (iv) for
services provided under the Community Grants; and (v) for training, study tours, and operating costs,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify to the Borrower. The required supporting
documentation and other records, including agreements between the CDP PIU and implementing agencies,
would be retained by the PIU for at least one year after the receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year
in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review by the
independent auditors and by the visiting Bank staff upon request. The processing, disbursement and
monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the IDA Credit, Borrower counterpart funds, communities
and donors financing would be managed by the CDP PIU.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, and
managed by the CDP PIU. The Authorized Allocation would be US$400,000 and the initial deposit into
the Special Account would be US$200,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding commitments entered into by IDA shall be equal to or
exceed SDR800,000 (equivalent to US$1 million). Payments out of the Special Account would cover
eligible expenditures under the project and the Ministry of Finance would reimburse the Special Account
for any ineligible expenditures. The Special Account would be replenished at least on a quarterly basis or
when the undisbursed balance falls below an amount equal to 50% or less of the initial deposit, whichever
occurs first. Replenishment applications will be submitted on a monthly basis and will be accompanied by
- 66 -



full documentation, including monthly bank statements of the Special Account, for all items except those
eligible for disbursement on the basis of the SOEs. All other applications for direct payment or issuance
of Special Commitments must be for an amount not less than 20% of the Special Account allocation.
The CDP PIU will also open a Project Account into which a share of Government's cash contribution will
be deposited every year. A deposit of US$145,000 equivalent would be made for each semi-annual period
following the initial deposit of US$100,000 to be made by the date of project effectiveness. In addition, the
CDP PIU will open two additional accounts, one for contributions by communities for micro-projects and
another one for cofinancier contributions to the project. All project accounts and the Special Account will
be audited annually by an accredited auditing finn.
- 67 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actuat
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      7                           6
First Bank mission (identification)             11/03/2001                   11/03/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     03/23/2002                   03/23/2002
Negotiations                                    04/22/2002                  04/25/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2002                  07/01/2002
Prepared by:
World Bank team
Preparation assistance:
PCF funds to support the preparation of the CDP by funding critical project start up costs and testing the
kind of activities that could receive funding under the project.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality      -          -
Caroline Mascarell                Team Leader/Community Development
Xiaoqing Yu                       Program Team Leader
Mark Woodward                     Social Development Specialist
Hi larian Codippily               Poverty Specialist/Economist
Rajna Cemerska                    Social Sector Project Officer
Sandro Zanus Michiei              Financial Management Specialist
Maria Gracheva                    Project Costing/Management Specialist
Yingwei Wu                        Procurement Specialist
Daniel Owen                       Peer Reviewer/CDD Specialist
Colin Scott                       Peer Reviewer/Post-Conflict Fund Specialist
Nikolai Soubbotin                 Legal Counsel
Nikolai Chistyakov                Disbursement Officer
Theresa Afi Bebli                 Project Assistant
- 68 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Annex 11 of CDP PAD
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
Local Government Institutional Review
Local Level Capacity Building Plan
Environmental Guidelines and Procedures
Project Implementation Anangements
*including electronic files
- 69 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Millions                               disbursements
Project ID     FY    Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                          Cancel.    Undisb.       Orig   Frm Revld
P066154        2002 PSMAC                                               0.00      15.00                            0.00      15.15       0.00       0.00
P070089        2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                       0.00       9.30                            0.00       7.99      40.71       0.00
P073483        2001 CHILDNOUTH DEVT UL                                  0.00       2.50                            0.00       2.40       0.11       0.00
P063577        2001 COMM DEVr & CULT UL                                0o00        5.00                            0.00       4.93       0.66       0.00
P038395        2001 WATER UTIL IMPV                                    16.17      13.10                            0.00      29.20       2.20       0.00
P042400        2001 FESAL2                                             30.31      20.00                            0.00      39.43      19.82       0.00
P050589        1999 TRANSPORT                                          32.00       0.00                            0.00      12.19      18.60       0.00
P066221        1999 SOCIAL SUPPORT                                      0.00      10.00                            0.00       3.09       2.86       0.00
P034609        1998 PSD II                                             25.00       0.00                            0.00       5.75       6.46       0.00
P042399        1998 POWER                                              35.00       0.00                            0.29      20.12      10.69       0.00
P038399        1998 IRRIG REHAB                                         7.50       5.00                            0.00       6.71       5.14       4.20
P010001        1996 PRIV FARMER SUPPORT                                 0.00       7.90                            0.00       1.19       1.86       1.20
Total:      145.98      87.80                            0.29      148.14      69.70       5.40
- 70 -



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999                Alkaloid                      0.00    0.00     7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     3.62    0.00
2001                Komercijalna                  4.31    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.24    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                MacedoniaTelcom               9.13   11.31     0.00   10.00    9.13   11.31     0.00   10.00
1997                Makedonija                    2.31    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.31    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               Nikol-Fert                     3.80    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.30    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999                SEAF Macedonia                0.00    2.50     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.99     0.00    0.00
1997                SEF Masinomont                0.62    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997                SEF Teteks                    0.58    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.58    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998/00/01          Stopanska Banka               0.00    0.55     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.47     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        20.75   14.36     7.50    10.00   19.18   12.77     3.62   10.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2002               Teteks 2                          5.30     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         5.30     0.00      0.00      0.00
-71-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              Macedonia.    Central   middle.
FYR       Asia   income       Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                         2.0      475      2.046                 Life expectancy
GNI 6er capita (Atlas method. USS)                    1;630     2.010     1.140
GNI (Atlas method. USS billions)                        3.3     -956      2:327
Average annual growth. 1994.00
Population ()                                           0.7       0.1       1.0                                      Gr
Labor force ()                                          1.2 -     0.6       1.3     GNI                              Gros
per           .primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1994.00)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (X of total poPulation)                62        67        42
Life expectancv at birth (vears)                        73        69        69
Infant mortalltv (per 1,000 live births)                16        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               6                  1II          Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (X of population)    99        90        so
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                               3        1 5
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   99       100       114                acedonla FYR
Male                                                 100       101       116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                98        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..        ..       3.5       3.6
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                          19.0      21.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP                     25.9       41.5                               Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                              8.9       7.1
Gross natonal savinos/GDP                                        17.3
Current account balance/GDP                                      -4.0      -0.5     Domestic
Interesl payments/GDP                                             1.9       1.8                                 Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                   41.5      379      savings
Total debt service/exports                                       31.3      13.1
Present value of debUGDP                                         38.7
Present value of debtexports                                     86.5
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000    200004
(averape annual gro wth)
GDP                                           40.3     2.7        5.1                     -   Macedonia, FYR
GDP per capita                                0.9      2.1        4 6                         Lower-middle-income group
EXoOrts of goods and services                 3.1      2.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (i)
(560f GDP) z
Aqriculture                                             8.5      11.6      11.8             A
Industry                                              46.7       35.2      33.1     20
Manufacturing.                                                           21.0
Services                                              44.9       53.2      55.1      Oj K           \
Private consumption                                   72.1       73.8               20
General government consumption                        19 .0      19.0                         -   GDI       -*-GDP         I
Imports of goods and services                         36.0       55.7
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports(%)
(average annual growth)
Aariculture                                           -0.4        0.7               45
Industry                                        .      4.7        0.4               30 -
Manufacturing                                 ._
Services                                               0.1        4.7              IS0
Private consumption                                    0.7        3.3         .97                           9a         
General covemment consumotion                         .0.3       10.1              15
Gross domestic Investment                              2.2      -16.5                             Exports        l Imports
Imports of goods and services                          7.2       -2.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-groul averaqe. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-72-



Macedonia, FYR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domesdc prices20
(% change)                                                                    200
Consumer prices                              ..       .      -.1 
Imppilct GDP deflator                        ..      ..      -0.3     14.7    100 
Govwnment finance                                                              so 
(% of GDP, Includes cuirent grants)                                             o                *   -0
Current revenue                              ..              37.9                     95    9    97   s9    99
Current budget balance                       ..      ..       2.5                       -GDP deflator   _CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..      ..       0.0
TRADE
1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                          ..   1,113     1,192       ,.    2.50D
Raw materials                              ..       ..       50             2.eoo
Food                                       ..      21        68       ..      00
Manufactures                               ..       ..      867             1,50.
Total imports (cif)                          ..   1,531     1,796        .    1000
Food                                       ..     136       208
Fuel and energy                            ..     215       158       ..
Capitalgoods                               ..      98       366       ..       oc
Export price Index (1995=100)                ..      9. 9. ..
Import price index (1995=100)               ..       ..        ..       ..                * Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980     1990      1999    2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                    .    1,192     1,440    1,617     0
Imports of goods and services               ..    1,630     1,925    2,233     o 
Resource balance                             ..    -438      -485     -616
Net Income                                    ,     -55       -44      49
Net current transfers                        ..      84      392      548
Current account balance                      ..   -409       -137      -19    -10
Financing items (net)                       ..      393      280
Changes In net reserves                      ..      16      -143       ,.    -1
Memo:
Reserves lncduding gold (USS millions)      ..
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUS$)             ..      ..      56.6     65.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                 ComposIUon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         ..      ..     1,433    1,354
IBRD                                       ..      ..      110      116                    G:68  A:116
IDA                                        ..      ..      223      249
Total debt service                           ..      ..      458      212
IBRD                                       ..      ..       10       11                                  B:249
IDA                                        ..       ..       1        2
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                           ..       ..      176
Official creditors                        ,,       ..     -179       30
Private creditors                         ..       ..       21       -43
Foreign direct investment                 ..       ..       30
Portfolio equity                          ..       ..        0                       E:307           D:177
World Bank program
Commitments                               ..       ..       92       60      A- IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             ..       ..       57       51      B -IDA   D - Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                      ..       ..        3        3      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                  ..      ..       54       48
Interest payments                         ..       ..        9        9
Net transfers                                      ..       45       39
ECSPE                                                                                                         10/11/01
73 -



Additional Annex 11: Project Implementation Plan
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Actions                       2002              2003              200411            200C
Q1   Q2  Q3   Q4  QI   Q2  Q3   Q4  QI Q2    Q3   Q4  QI   Q2  Q3   Q4
1. Preparation Phase
Phase 1: Interim project Management
Arrangements
a Select and reach agreement on an interim
PIU_ 
b. Interim PIU to open Special Account for the
PCF Grant
c. Recruitment of accountant consulantr
d. Establish FMS in interim PI_                   _     
e. Draft TORs for key CDP PIU staff
f. Recruitment of CDP Executive Director
g. Recruitment of other key CDP PIU staff
h. Procurement process of a few selected
technical assistance activiies financed
under PCF Grant
Phase II: Establishment of CDP PIU
1. Setting up the COP Office
a Selection of CDP office and signig of
lease
b. Setting up the new CDP office:
1. Procurement of office equipment
(1) Office furniture
Cii) Computers, telephones and other
equipment
(iii) Vehicles
2. Upgrading office space (works)
Develop first draft of CDP Operational
Manual
d. Provide training and TA to CDP staff
2. Setting up Financial Management
and Disbursement Arrangements
a. Open Special Account for PCF
b. Interim PIU to transfer balance from Special
Account opened to manage funds of PCF.
c. Transfer FMS developed under interim PIU
to CDP PIU.
d Train CDP Accountant in the use of the
FMS
Reach preliminary agreements with
e cofinanciers
f. Design the MIS and develop timeframe for
operationalizing the system.
- 74 -



Project Implementation Plan
Actions                      2002              2003              2004              2005
________________________      01   021 03   04  QI   02  03   04  QI  Q2   Q3  04   01  Q2   Q3  041
R   m
0   a
co 
3. Fulfillment of Project Effectiveness
,a. Establishing CDP PIU
.b. Appointment of CDP Board members
.c. Open Special Account in commercial bank
and deposit Government Counterpart Fund
$100,000                               =
.II. Project Implementation Phase
'  Finalization of Operational
Arrangements
Develop departmental strategies and action
a.plans
'b. Assessment of additional staffing needs
c. Draft TORs for additional staff                      E               _
,d. Recruitment of additional staff
e. Finaize the Operational Manual
I. Operationalize MIS
'g. Confirm cofinanciers participation                                   7
2 Community Microproject
2 Implementation
Community Infrastructure MP
:a. Community Mapping
b. Community outreach, promotion and
information dissemination
c. Selection of microprojects
d. Procurement
ae. Implementation of microprojects
Recruitment of consultants for MP design
and SPN.
Community Services Microprojects
a. Community outreach, promotion and
information dissemination
b. Selection of microprojects including inter-
ethnic seminars, conferences and
workshops
c. Procurement
d. Implementation of microprojects
- 75 -



Project Implementation Plan
Actions                      2002             2003              2004              2005
Q1  02   Q3 Q4    QI  Q2   Q3  04  01 Q2    Q3   04  Q1 Q2    03   04
=l m <
3 Local Level Institutional
Strengthening
Micro-project Training and T.A. to
Communities and Contractors
a. Conduct Needs Assessment
b. Ongoing on-the-job training by CDP PIU
- Start-up Phase
Promotion, preparation and design
- Mid-term Phase
Procurement, Implementation, Supervision
- Final Phase
Maintenance and Sustainability
c Special Training by local and foreign
Trainers
(I) Draft TORs
(ii) Solicitation for expression of interest to
bid for local training contract
(iii) Preparation of Shortlist
(iv) Shortlist of firms for tender
(v) Selection of trainers
(vi) Training sessions
Local Government and Community
Training
a. Conduct Municipal Capaclty Assessment
b. Draft TORs
c. Bid-Process for Firm
(i) Solicitation for expression of interest to
bid for local training contract
(ii) Preparation of Shortlist
(ii) Shortlist of firms for tender
(iv) Selection of trainers
(v) Training sessions
d. Implementation of training
Employment Surveys
a. Draft TORs
b. Selection of participating municipaities
c. Recrutment of survey teams
d. Training of survey teams
Develop survey questionnaire and
interview guide
f. Conduct survey and interviews
g. Submission of survey reports                                            Wi
h. Discussion of reports with local planning
h. teams
-76 -



Project Implementation Plan
Actions                       2002              2003              2004               2005
Qa   Q2  Q3   04  01   02   Q3 04    Q1  Q2   Q3   Q4  Qi Q2    Q3   Q4
0
z
4 CDP Staff Training and TA
a. Initial Training and TA
- Procurement
- Disbursement
- Departmental roles and strategic planning
b. Ongoing Trainina and TA
- Special training and TA organized based on
need
- Study tours, workshops
5 Monitoring and Evaluation
a. WB Launch Mission
b. Mid-Term Review
c. Beneficiary Assessment
d. Procurement and technical review       _    =
e. Quarterly reports
f. Annual reports
g. Annual flnanclal audit
- 77 -



Additional Annex 12: Community Investment Project Typology
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
L. Community Infrastructure Typology
1. Social Infrastructure:
a)  Renovation, rehabilitation of kindergartens, primary and secondary schools.
b)  Renovation, rehabilitation of special schools for disabled children, art, music and sports schools.
c)  Renovation, rehabilitation of student dormitories.
d)  Rehabilitation of school heating systems.
e) Provision of school furniture.
f)  Renovation and rehabilitation of children's playgrounds.
g)  Renovation and rehabilitation of orphanages, old people's homes and homes for veterans, health
centers, clinics and polyclinics.
h)  Renovation and rehabilitation of community centers (including libraries, community halls, clubs, etc.).
2. Economic Infrastructure:
a)  Renovation, rehabilitation and construction of potable water systems.
b)  Renovation, rehabilitation and construction of local level irrigation systems, including reservoirs.
c)  Rehabilitation of village or neighborhood roads, access roads to isolated villages, access roads to
agricultural lands and farms (including bridges, drainage, culverts, retaining walls, etc.).
d) Rehabilitation and construction of energy-generating microprojects for small and isolated communities
(micro hydro-power stations on irrigation channels and water pipelines, bio-energy plants. etc.).
e)  Rehabilitation of telecommunication lines for isolated villages.
3. Sanitation and Environmental Infrastructure:
a)  Renovation, rehabilitation and construction of sewage systems (only upon the condition of having the
system connected to the main sewage network or the presence of a filtration plant downstream) and
storm canals.
b)  Improvement and rehabilitation of degraded environment through tree planting and clean up.
c)  Erosion control activities (tree planting, terracing, drainage canals, rehabilitation of the anti-hail
facilities).
d)  Construction or rehabilitation of micro-dams.
II. Community Services Typology
Education Sector:
- Programs to support city governments in organizing transportation for school children in rural areas.
- Scholarships to support education opportunities for poor students and women of minority groups in
- 78 -



secondary and higher education.
Health Sector:
- Community health awareness/education programs, including workshops on safe motherhood, nutrition,
information on/treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, water and sanitation.
- Programs to support city governments in organizing transportation for doctors and nurses to visit primary
health care clinics in remote communities.
Social Services:
- Programs to assist returning families in resettling in their communities.
- Programs to assist displaced families in alternate communities.
- Programs for the elderly such as home care service, cultural/entertainment programs in community
centers.
- Programs for non-pensioned elderly such as development of small self-employment programs.
- Programs to support community based day care centers for the disabled, elderly and other marginalized
and vulnerable groups of the population.
- Skill enhancement programs for women, the disabled and vulnerable groups.
- Fund raising campaigns to support programs for the disabled.
- Programs to support inter-ethnic activities such as sports events, and open market places.
- Programs for the rehabilitation of alcohol and drug abusers.
- Programs related to raising awareness to environmental issues.
- 79 -



Additional Annex 13: Poverty Targeting Strategy and Allocation of Funds
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Introduction
The purpose of this Annex is to outline the poverty targeting strategy and the allocation of project funds
across eight geographical regions of FYR Macedonia, which have been defined by the availability of
population and other socioeconomic data. These eight regions are: Pelogonija, South West, North East,
Poloski, South East, East, Vardarski, and Skopski.
The objective of the allocation is to ensure regional equity in the use of CDP funds, and to provide the basis
for planning of the disbursement of CDP funds by region. In addition, fixing regional allocations will
mitigate political pressures to move funds across regions during the life of the project.
Poverty Targeting Strategy
A two-stage poverty targeting strategy was discussed and agreed with the Government. According to this
strategy, the first level of targeting will define broad allocations for the regions, and will be based on a
methodology which includes population size, and indicators of poverty and conflict. The second level of
targeting to identify needy communities will be based on a set of detailed criteria to be used by the CDP
PIU during project implementation.
While broadly agreeing to the need for selectivity, the Government stated that, following the Donors
Meeting held in Brussels in March 2002, a large volume of donor funding is being targeted to the
conflict-affected regions and to Skopje. It was noted that priority social needs in Eastem Macedonia have
intensified during the recent months due to high levels of poverty, exacerbated by increased unemployment,
resulting from the closure of a number of textile factories in and around Stip. In this regard, the
Govemment emphasized that reducing social tensions and conflict prevention have assumed high priority -
pointing to the need for an equitable distribution of CDP funds to all regions. The political sensitivity of
limiting funds to a few regions, and excluding others was also noted.
During appraisal and subsequent negotiations, the Govenmment suggested that the allocation for Skopski
(Skopje), and Poloski (Tetovo region) should be limited to a modest amounts (considering the current levels
of donor assistance to these two regions) and that the rest of the project funds should be targeted to the
other six regions, on the basis of the proposed targeting strategy. The Govermment also emphasized that
more weight should be given to poverty indicators vis-a-vis the conflict indicators. These suggestions were
accepted and the targeting formula was adjusted accordingly. In the formula, defined below, each poverty
indicator was given a weight of 3 relative to the conflict indicators.
The Targeting Methodology
Stage 1: Regional Allocations. The total amount of CDP funds available for regional allocation is
estimated at US$8.23 million for community investment projects. It was agreed that: (i) the allocation for
Skopski be limited to US$ 1.0 million; (ii) the allocation for Poloski be limited to US$1.5 million; and (iii)
the a reserve fund of US$500,000 be made available to deal with emergency situations that may arise
during the life of the project. This left a total of US$5.23 million to be allocated to other six regions.
The regional allocations are based on two broad factors: (a) the population size of each region; and (b) a
- 80 -



composite poverty-conflict index computed from three poverty indicators and two conflict indicators. The
three poverty indicators are: (i) the poverty incidence (head count index) or the proportion of the population
living below official poverty line - representing the extent or the "quantity" of poverty; (ii) the severity
index which is the Foster-Greer-Thorbecke (FGT) measure P2 - representing the intensity of poverty; and
(iii) unemployment - representing poverty of opportunity to secure a means of sustainable livelihood. The
latest available estimates for these indicators for the 2000-2001 period were obtained from the State
Department of Statistics. The two conflict indicators used were the number of displaced persons by region
of origin, and the number of houses damaged by region. The source for these two indicators was the
UNHCR.
The formula for the allocation of funds by region (outside Skopski and Poloski) is as follows:
Ar = A(NrxIr)/Z(NrxIr)
Where A = total allocation available for all six regions outside Skopski and Poloski;
A = allocation for a given region r;
N = population of a given region r;
I = poverty-conflict index for a given region r.
The poverty-conflict index (a weighted index) is defined by:
I= [(POr+P2r+U)x3 +C,,+C2J]/1 1, for a given region r.
PO = poverty rate; P2 = intensity of poverty; U  = unemployment rate;
Cl = proportion of persons displaced; and C2 = proportion of houses damaged.
The sum of weights =  1.
Table I presents the data inputs: (a) population; (b) poverty incidence; (c) severity of poverty; (d)
unemployment; (e) proportion of persons displaced; and (f) proportion of houses damaged. The purpose
of Table 2 is to normalize the input data into indicators. Thus, the numbers for (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f)
above are expressed as proportions of the respective averages. Table 3 shows the resulting regional
allocations.
Selectivity. It was agreed that the promotion of the CDP PIU will initially focus only on two or three
priority regions identified in accordance with the agreed methodology, where and integrated program of
pilot activities would be implemented. Such an approach will be important to learn from early experiences,
ensure tangible results on the ground, and to produce demonstration effects for subsequent work in other
regions.
Stage 2: Selection of Communities. It was agreed that within each region, detailed criteria will be used by
the CDP PIU promotional team, during the life of the project, to select municipalities and local
communities for initial discussions on community needs, priorities perceived by the communities, project
possibilities, and modalities of operation of the CDP. The criteria, broadly agreed during the mission are as
follows:
- 81 -



Criteria
1. State of physical and social Infrastructure
2. Presence of vulnerable or marginalized groups
3. Presence of ethnically mixed communities
4. Under-representation of women in local development activities
5. Excessive time spent by women on household activities due to poor infrastructure
6. Under-funded communities (from donor financing)
7. Capacity of communities to plan and implement microprojects
8. Community commitment and proactiveness in development work
9. Ability to make a community contribution to the microproject in financial terms
10. Likelihood of early success - to produce demonstration effects
11. Security considerations and accessibility of commnunities
12. Level of interest of municipalities in supporting and facilitating community microprojects and
services
These criteria will be further developed and refined by the CDP PIU prior to and during project
implementation, based on lessons learned and experience of other donors active in community development.
An appropriate assessment and rating system will also be developed and incorporated in the CDP
Operational Manual.
- 82 -



REGIONAL ALLOCATION OF CDP FUNDS (US$)
Table 1: Poverty and Conflict Indicators
Poverty                                     Proportion of
Incidence Severity of  Unemployment Proportion of  Damaged
Region      Population  (%)    Poverty (%)  (%)       IDPs by Origin  Houses
Pelagonija     244,077    18.30       1.10        25.30
South West     224,229    32.40       3.60        39.00
North East     171,265    20.00       1.40        41.10       0.212        0.467
Poloski        304,454    29.40       1.60        44.80       0.457        0.294
South East     174,033    33.30       2.10        16.30
East           204,899    13.30       1.20        26.50
Vardarski      133,950    20.00       0.70        33.70
Skopski        574,205    22.00       4.40        30.60       0.331        0.239
TOTAUAV       2,031,112   20.00       2.48        30.50       1.000        1.000
Source: State Department of Statistics, and UNHCR.
Note: Estimates of unemployment for 2001 provided by the State Department of Statistics
have been updated on the basis of the Labour Force Survey of April 2000, for official use only.
Table 2: Normalized Poverty and Conflict Indicators for Regions outside Skopski and Poloski
Proportion of
Poverty  Severity of            Proportion of  Damaged
Region      Population  Incidence Poverty  Unemployment DPs by Origin  Houses
Pelagonija     244,077    0.92        0.44         0.83        0.00         0.00
South West     224,229     1.62       1.45         1.28        0.00         0.00
North East     171,265     1.00       0.56         1.35        1.00         1.00
South East     174,033     1.67       0.85         0.53        0.00         0.00
East           204,899    0.67        0.48         0.87        0.00         0.00
Vardarski      133,950     1.00       0.28         1.10        0.00         0.00
TOTAUAV       1,152,453    1.00       1.00         1.00        1.00         1.00
- 83 -



Table 3: Poverty Scores and Resulting Allocations in US$
(Outside Skopski and Poloski Regions)
Poverty-
Conflict  (P-C Index) x Funds from CDP
Region      Population  Index  (Pop.)     CIPs
Pelagonija     244,077   0.597     145,668     825,066
South West     224,229    1.187    266,087    1,507,119
North East     171,265   0.976     167,173     946,866
South East     174,033   0.831     144,607     819,054
East           204,899   0.550     112,769     638,725
Vardarski      133,950    0.651     87,214     493,980
TOTALUAV      1,152,453   1.000    923,519    5,230,809
SKOPSKI                                       1,000,000
POLOSKI                                       1,500,000
RESERVE FUND:                                  500,000
TOTAL:                                        8,230,809
- 84 -



Additional Annex 14: Local Government Institutional Review
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.     Purpose
The purpose of the institutional review was to assess the institutional context for the project at
local level, while also addressing the changing legal, policy, and financial framework for local
governance and community development, in order to facilitate the finalization of project design.
Particular attention was given to identification of the needs of municipalities, local communities,
and associated organizations, for capacity building support.
2.     Confirmation That the Project Fills a Si nificant Gap
A number of key findings emerged from the review. One of the most important is that there is a gap
in donor programmning in support of community development with regard to building a link
between microprojects at community level and enhancing the understanding of municipal
authorities of their potential role in facilitating and supporting community-based initiatives to
address major priorities. The design of this project, as well as the planning for the capacity
building component, addresses this deficiency.
3.     Activities
Because of the limited time available, the review was conducted on an intensive basis. The major
activities undertaken were as follows:
*   A series of field assessment visits was undertaken to hold meetings with municipalities and local
communities across Macedonia, with a focus on medium-sized and smaller municipalities. At the
community level, the emphasis was given to visiting remote and less well-served villages, as well as
marginal urban settlements. Meetings were held with mayors, councilors, municipal staff, officials of
local public enterprise, municipal staff, local NGOs, and community representatives.
*   Discussions were held with central govemment Ministers and ministries to gain an up-to-date
appreciation of progress with preparation of the framework for decentralization and the implications in
terms of changes in central-local relations and the transfer of responsibility for service delivery to
municipal government. In this regard, meetings with the Ministry of Finance, Local Self-Government,
Education, Health, and Labor and Social Security, were of particular importance.
* Meetings were also held with other donors and their contractors, as well as with international NGOs, to
gain an appreciation of their coverage, along with the areas of thematic focus and the programming
approaches adopted.
*   A preliminary assessment was made of in-country capacities and experience in the fields of training
and research relevant to the needs of the project.
4.     Backfround Situation This section of the review draws on interviews conducted in the course of
the review. It also draws on two reports. The first is Ilija Todorovski, "Local Government in Macedonia",
in Emilia Kandeva, Ed., Local Governments in Central and Eastem Europe. Budapest: Open Society
Institute, May 2001, pp. 243-287. The second is Mark Sheldrake, "Review of Decentralization and
- 85 -



Modernization of Government: A Discussion Paper", DFID Support for Public Administration in
Macedonia, Public Administration Reform Project, November 2001.
Local Government: The local government sector at present is lacking in the financial resources it requires
to meet its responsibilities, has limited numbers of well-qualified and experienced professional staff, and is
overly-dependent on central government for obtaining approval for decisions concerning core issues in local
economic and social development. In considering present difficulties, as well as the reforms to be
introduced under the Local Self-Government Act of 2002, it is important to bear in mind that, from
1974-1991, a very different system of local government existed.
During this period of 17 years, immediately preceding the breakup of the Yugoslav Federation, government
in Macedonia was highly decentralized, with 34 large municipalities exercising a substantial range of
competencies, including local economic regulation and development. Under this system, municipalities were
able to play a prominent role in national life. However, at the same time, the extent of decentralization was
such as to inhibit the ability of central government to develop effective national economic policy, or to set
national standards for social provision, thus exacerbating a pattern of uneven economic development.
The decentralization which will occur under the new Local Self-Government Act will be more restricted in
scope. Nevertheless, the new Law does allow for a significant delegation of competencies to municipalities.
It also provides them with the political space in which to determine local priorities, to formulate local
policies, and to act as a catalyst in encouraging economic development and community initiative within the
local sphere.
Among the competencies to be transferred (or confirmed) are:
*   Urban and rural planning;
*   Protection of the environment;
*   Local economic development;
*   Community infrastructure development;
*   Social welfare and child care;
*   Education (primary and secondary); and,
*   Primary health care.
However, the provisions of the Law are vague on detail, and there remains considerable uncertainty (for
example, in education and health) regarding specifics. An inter-ministerial coordinating body has been
formed to resolve areas of disagreement, which remain substantial.
Once clarity is achieved, a wide-ranging agenda of legislation must be placed before Parliament, to
facilitate implementation of the Law. Particularly important are the Law on Local Self-Government Public
Finance, the Law on Territorial Division, and the Law on the City of Skopje. In addition, all major areas of
legislation in those fields of government services which will be affected by the transfer of competencies will
require amendment. Finally, decentralization and the delegation of responsibilities will also require the
transfer of members of the public service, currently employed by central government, to local government.
Accordingly, legislation and administrative reform in support of decentralization must be compatible with
the principal elements of reform of public administration, and particularly with those concerning public
employment.
Discussions continue at inter-ministerial level concerning the resolution of some central issues of local
government finance. Accordingly, it is unlikely that a draft of the Law on Public Finance for Local
Self-Government will be presented to Parliament prior to the national elections, expected to take place in
- 86 -



September, following the adoption of a new Election Law. Since it will be some time before a new
government is ready to bring forward legislation, a further delay beyond September 2002 is likely.
The Law on Territorial Division, which will deternine the number of municipalities and specify their
boundaries, cannot be brought forward until a national census takes place. This was scheduled initially to
be conducted this year. However, it now seems possible that it will be postponed until 2003. The census
data, in combination with the specification of municipal boundaries, will be important for local
self-government in another respect, because of the "20 per cent rule", included as Article 55 in the Law on
Local Self-Government Under this provision, where a minority of 20 per cent or more exists within a
municipality, agreement of the representatives of the minority community on a Committee for Inter-Ethnic
Relations must be secured prior to the adoption or amendment of policies or programs in matters relating to
inter-ethnic relations at local level.
It has been stated officially that the Law on Local Self-Government will be implemented early in 2003.
However, in view of the complexities of the decentralization process, the many decisions still to be made,
the detailed coordination required, and the lengthy agenda of legislation to be brought forward, this would
appear to be overly ambitious. Hence, the Community Development Project is likely to be implemented
under the current local government framework, but with both municipalities and central govermnent
ministries giving active consideration to the needs to be met under the structures of decentralization.
5.     Capacities of Municipalities and Local Communities
It was determined that, while medium-sized municipalities have reasonably good capacities to be mobilized
in support of community action and for participation in design and supervision of community initiatives,
minimal capacities - and very few personnel - are characteristic of smaller local government units. At
community level, there are substantial unmet needs, as well as an enthusiasm for contributing to, and taking
responsibility for, community projects.
Much depends on the commitment, political skill and practical experience of the mayor, as well as on the
extent of support which he (usually) or she receives from the Municipal Council. Although a few
independent candidates are elected, party politics and party divisions rule at local, as at national, level. At
the same time, there are also many examples of party groups working together, between elections, to
support worthwhile initiatives.
Although municipalities lack the required numbers of experienced and qualified staff, the larger and
medium-sized local government units employ sufficient staff to allow for some flexibility in allocating
human resources to new priorities. The capacities of the municipalities will be enhanced substantially with
the implementation of the Law on Local Self-Government. Resources, from local fees and charges, as well
as through the allocation from national tax revenues, will be far more substantial, and, it is hoped, more
secure and predictable. A redistribution fund is to be introduced to assist poorer municipalities with limited
opportunities to generate local revenues, but details are still under consideration. With the transfer of
additional competencies, there will also take place a transfer of professional and administrative staff, along
with the responsibility to pay their salaries.
Municipalities recognize their central role in responding to community needs and in supporting community
development. However, they also acknowledge the difficulties they face, particularly in supporting rural
communities, because of limited resources and experience, and a restricted mandate. They will face a
significant challenge in responding to their new responsibilities, under the Law on Local Self-Government,
to facilitate community participation, community decision-making, and community development.
- 87 -



In some large and medium-sized municipalities, NGOs play an active role, with local branches of the
Women's Association, environmental organizations, youth groups, and agricultural producers'
associations, most prominent. Such organizations are small. However, because of their flexibility,
fund-raising abilities, leadership skills and external linkages, NGOs are attractive partners for
municipalities. More progressive mayors work effectively with NGOs in strengthening the range of
services, and addressing urgent social and economic needs, at local level. Thus, NGOs represent a valuable
resource and a potential partner in community development activities.
At the local community (i.e. village or urban neighborhood) level, there exist community or neighborhood
councils. These are long-established, but have no formal or official existence under either the current, or the
proposed, local government legislation. Official or unofficial, these bodies appear to enjoy substantial
legitimacy among local people. Election procedures are vague, and it cannot be claimed that the councils
are democratic bodies. However, a number of informal studies have concluded that they are viewed by local
people as representing their interests. A significant limitation is the non-representation of women, and it
will be necessary for the project to address this deficiency.
The community councils vary in their level of activity and in the scope of popular involvement they
encourage. It will be important for the Project to take an active role in ensuring that all community
residents are included in decisions and priority setting. This will be particularly critical in ethnically-mixed
communities.
The Association of Units of Local Self-Govermment, ZELS, has strong and effective leadership, and enjoys
the support of GTZ and USAID. It has done an impressive job in building a coherent and united municipal
pressure group, which had significant influence on the formulation of the Law on Local Self-Government.
It has a very small staff, but has excellent networks. It is a natural partner, formally and informally, for
CDP.
6.     In-Countrv Training Capacities
There is limited expertise and experience in Macedonia in planning or implementing customized training
programs for specialized target-groups. Few organizations have experience in delivering specialized
programs to non-academic groups.
In the field of financial management for municipalities, all of the major accounting and audit firms are
represented in Macedonia, and there are also a number of smaller domestic firms operating in the same
field. It should be possible for one or more of these firms to bring together the required substantive
expertise, although careful attention will be required to ensure that appropriate training methods, including
hands-on practice, are utilized.
In the area of broader training for municipal stakeholders, the degree of difficulty in locating the necessary
combination of practical expertise may be greater, in that there is no natural "home" for such training
capabilities. The kinds of training knowledge required will be found in a number of different places.
Therefore, a contractor interested in bidding on a contract will find it necessary to bring in expertise for a
number of fields, and from a number of kinds of organizations, including NGOs. It has been determined
that a number of non-profit organizations will be interested in bidding on contracts for training required by
the Project. It will probably be advisable to consider a pre-selection process to assist the organizations to
prepare relevant bids, and to minimize wasted effort on their part.
- 88 -



Mention should be made of the fact that the EU Phare Local Self-Government Project will train 17
Macedonians to be trainers in various facets of municipal management and local govemment development.
The Soros Foundation has trained a group of 9 women as gender-in-development trainers. Members of
these two groups could be engaged as key personnel in the training teams assembled by the contractors. It
may also be noted that the USAID contractor, the Institute of Sustainable Communities (ISC) has built up
a cadre of local trainers and community facilitators, whose skills might be utilized in training and other
project activities
7.     Activities of Other Donors: Possibilities for Collaboration
There are a number of ongoing initiatives supported by other donors in related fields, and, where possible,
it will be beneficial for the Conmmunity Development Project to cooperate with them. Since there are a
staggering number of donor projects which support local infrastructure investment, many of them with a
short-term time horizon, the discussion here will focus on a small group of projects, where close
collaboration would be mutually beneficial.
It was made clear to the review team that there is a practical interest on the part of several of the relevant
donors and projects to work closely with the Bank in areas of mutual interest, including training and
outreach activities. Further, because of the substantial flow of donor resources to municipalities and local
communities, particularly in the former conflict zone, close coordination by the PIU with its counterparts,
nationally, through established coordination structures, as well as at regional or local level, will be
essential.
The largest development-oriented project, comparable in scope and focus to CDP, is the Local
Infrastructure Support Program of the European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR), with Euros 30 million
over three years, 2002-2005. Since this is an all-grant program, it will be particularly important for the PIU
to collaborate closely with EAR, in order to ensure that the conditions for effective local partnership are not
damaged by another donor with more money, and less complicated requirements. On the positive side, EAR
seems keen to collaborate. There will be mutual benefit in working jointly with municipalities in selected
cases, with the Europeans focusing on municipal-level investments, and the Bank emphasizing the
community level.
The EU, through the PHARE Program, is also supporting a Project to Support Local Government
Development, implemented by a Greek-Spanish Consortium. The project focuses on capacity building for
the Ministry of Local Self-Government. It will implement a small number of local projects, but its budget
for this activity is quite limited. Because of the strategic importance of the Ministry of Local
Self-Government in decentralization, it will be important for CDP to maintain good communications with
this project. Supervision of this and other EU programming in Macedonia has now been taken over by the
European Agency for Reconstruction.
Other projects of particular interest include USAID's Local Government Reform Program (LGRP),
implemented by DAI. The Program has established a strong team and has an excellent track record and
reputation with its partner municipalities. There are good grounds for pursuing direct cooperation with
LGRP in information dissemination programs, various facets of community service, and topics relating to
local economic development.
The GTZ Project on the Commercialization of Public Enterprise is implemented through a partnership with
ZELS (the Association of Units of Local Self-Government). It has broad knowledge on local public
enterprise and the prospects for local public-private partnerships, as well as on local training expertise.
- 89 -



GTZ is extremely positive concerning the prospects of cooperation with CDP.
OSCE is not a donor in the conventional sense, but, with financial support from Norway and Canada,
among others, it is developing imaginative local government programming encouraging inter-ethnic and
inter-municipality cooperation in ethnically-mixed areas in the former conflict zone, as well as in the
Kicevo Valley, and elsewhere. It also has an elaborate network of field monitors. OSCE is keen to
collaborate and provide local support to CDP. This would be of particular value in the former conflict
zone, where it may be difficult to acquire the local knowledge needed to mount effective pilot projects with
strong local ownership and broad-based participation.
Among smaller donors, the Soros Foundation could be a valuable partner on training, especially where
gender issues and women's participation is concerned. The USAID contractor, Mercy Corps, has a strong
presence in the Tetovo Region, and a network of local field officers. It is also supporting an interesting set
of small community service and participation projects. It could be an excellent partner in building
community links in its focus region. Linking its small initiatives to CDP infrastructure projects, particularly
in relation to schools, could be a real asset. The Council of Europe has a small program in Local
Government, and also has strong links to the Assembly of Local Governments, based in Strasbourg. It is
interested in small-scale collaboration, including, possibly, funding the participation of European
specialists in project activities. Finally, it might be noted that SIDA is supporting a number of innovative
local development projects, emphasizing community development and women's participation. It has
expressed an interest in collaboration with CDP.
8.     Capacitv Building Framework
On the basis of the findings of the review, and with careful consideration given to the plan for community
investments, the team finalized the design for the capacity building component. The proposed capacity
building program will consist of the following three training programs: a) basic training; b)flnancial
management training; and c) community outreach training. A description of each of these training
programs is provided in Annex 2 under the Local Level Institutional Strengthening component.
-90 -



Additional Annex 15: Environmental Mitigation Measures and Review Checklist
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIMARY HEALTH FACILITY MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                  Impacts                           Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 *Contamination from waste materials  * Protection of soil surfaces during construction;
(construction and medical)           control and daily cleaning of construction
sites; provision of adequate waste disposal
services
Water Resources       eClogging of drainage works
* Decline in water quality due to    * Special attention to drainage; proper disposal
contamination                        of oil and other hazardous materials; adequate
*Introduction of hazardous wastes      sanitation and disposal system for waste
Air Quality            Dust during construction
*Degraded interior air quality (caused by * Dust control by water or other means;
construction works, evaporation from  appropriate design and siting subproject
medicines and chemical substances)
*Odor problems
Acoustic Environment  *Noise disturbance of natural habitats
* Restrict construction to certain hours
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats      *Disturbance of natural habitats
* Minimize loss of natural vegetation during
Fauna and Flora       *Loss or degradation of vegetation     construction; consideration of altemative sites;
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife  various special measures for alternative sites;
various special measures for sensitive species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and        *Debris
Landscape                                                  * Cleaning-up of construction sites; provision of
adequate solid waste disposal systems
Historical/Cultural Sites *Degradation of sites
*Disturbance to structures           * Consideration of altemative sites; special
measures to project buildings and other
cultural resources/areas
Human Health          *Construction accidents
*Medical wastes from health posts    * Specify designed systems fore disposal of
medical waste
Human Communities     *Involuntary resettlement
*Losses of buildings, property, or   * Compensation per OD 4.20; good siting;
economic livelihood                   community participation in environmental
*Disruption due to greater traffic loads  assessment
- 91 -



EDUCATION FACILITY MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                 Impacts                         Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 *Contamination from waste materials  0 Protection of soil surfaces during construction;
control and daily cleaning of construction
sites; provision of adequate waste disposal
services
Water Resources       eClogging of drainage works
* Decline in water quality due to  * Special attention to drainage; proper disposal
contamination                      of oil and other hazardous materials; adequate
*Introduction of hazardous wastes    sanitation and disposal system for waste
Air Quality           *Dust during construction
*Degraded interior air quality (caused  0 Dust control by water or other means;
by construction works)             appropriate design and siting subproject
* Odor problems
Acoustic Environment  *Noise disturbance of natural habitats
* Restrict construction to certain hours
Biolo,eical Environment
Natural Habitats      *Disturbance of natural habitats
* Restrict construction to certain hours
Fauna and Flora       *Loss or degradation of vegetation
oDisruption or destruction of wildlife  * Minimize loss of natural vegetation during
construction; consideration of altemative sites;
various special measures for alternative sites;
various special measures for sensitive species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and        oDebris
Landscape                                                * Cleaning-up of construction sites; provision of
adequate solid waste disposal systems
Historical/Cultural Sites *Degradation of sites
*Disturbance to structures         * Consideration of altemative sites; special
measures to protect buildings and other
cultural resources/areas
Human Health          *Construction accidents
oMedical wastes from health posts  * Specify designed systems for disposal of
medical wastes
Human Communities     oInvoluntary resettlement
*Losses of buildings, property, or  * Compensation per OD 4.20; good siting;
economic livelihood                 community participation in environmental
*Disruption due to greater traffic loads  assessment
-92 -



WATER RELATED MICROPROJECTS
A. WATERSUPPLYMICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                 Impacts                          Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 *Degradation of soil cover          * Protection during construction; re-vegetation
or physical stabilization services
Water Resources       oContamination of water resources   * Adequate protection for livestock; minimal
*Over-exploitation of aquifers       distance from human settlements and
*Inadequate wastewater disposal      agricultural areas; regional water use planning;
*Introduction to hazardous wastes    proper drainage near pumping stations;
*Creation of stagnant water pools    community participation; link to sanitation
micro-projects
Acoustic Environment  *Noise disturbance from pumnp if near a * Siting studies
home
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats      eDisturbance of natural habitats    * Siting studies
Fauna and Flora       *Loss or degradation of vegetation  * Siting studies; protection of vegetation during
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife  construction
Social Environment
Aesthetics and        *Marred landscapes                  * Cleaning-up of construction sites
Landscape             *Debris
Human Health
*Waterbome diseases                0 Correct design and adequate training; testing
*Chemical imbalances in delivery     procedures
system
Human Communities
*Involuntary resettlement          * Compensation per OD 4.20
*Loss of buildings or property
- 93 -



WATER RELATED MICROPROJECTS
B. SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                 Impacts                          Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 *Increase of soil erosion           * Proper siting of irrigation suprojects; extension
* Soil water-logging as a result of  and training in crop selection and agricultural
improper drainage                   technology; careful design and appropriate
*Increased salinization              selection of irrigation systems; adequate
drainage
Water Resources       *Water quality degradation in ponds  * Control of agrochemical use; proper design of
and reservoirs                      canals; monitoring of water quality; operation
eDeoxygenation of receiving water    and maintenance plan; regional water use
*Clogging of canals from weeds       plans
olnefficient water flow because of heavy
sedimentation
*Degradation of water systems
receiving irrigation waters by
nutrients, agrochemicals and salts
*Depletion of aquifers from
over-exploitation
*Disturbances to flow regimes
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats      *Disturbance of natural habitats    * Consideration of altemative sites; select
*Disturbance of protected areas      appropriate design and crops
Fauna and Flora       *Algae blooms, proliferation of aquatic  * Provision of corridors of habitat for movement
weeds                               of animals
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment
Human Health          *Risk of waterborne diseases from   * Education in proper sanitation and health
artificial water flows              practices; avoidance of stagnant waters;
* Disease transmission from human and  adequate treatment of irrigation waters; careful
animal waste deposits in irrigation  management of pesticides; integrated pest
waters used on agriculture          management (IPM) programs; protection of
*Toxicity of pesticides              canals from livestock
Human Communities     *lnvoluntary resettlement           * Adequate compensation as per OD 4.20; good
*Loss of property                    consultation and participation with affected
*Conflicts over water use rights     communities; consideration of cumulative
* Multiple land use demands on       impacts
restricted water sources          * Political and social problems associated with
upstream land use and pollutant discharges
- 94 -



WATER RELATED MICROPROJECTS
C. DOMESTIC WASTE WA TER SEWAGE MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                 Impacts                          Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 *Degradation of soil cover          * Erosion control during construction
Water Resources       *Point soil pollution at discharge of pipe * Select appropriate technology for wastewater
*Water quality degradation          treatment; settling pond, screens, or aeration
(Deoxygenation) in receiving surface  systems; siting studies; incorporation into
waters                             larger wastewater systems; adequate training
*Contamination of subsurface water   in maintenance of latrines or disposal systems;
resources                           alternative siting; monitoring programs
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats      *Disturbance of natural habitats    * Altemative site
Fauna and Flora       *Loss or degradation of vegetation  0 Alternative site
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment
Aesthetics and        *Unpleasant odors                   * Include odor-control technology in design
Landscape
Human Health          eDisease transmission               * Select appropriate technology; training and
*Accident risk during construction   monitoring programs, community
* Sewer gas leaks                    participation, operation and maintenance plans
*Improper use of night soil from
composting toilets
Human Communities     *lmpacts may be concentrated        * Adequate consultation and participation of all
downstream in other communities     potentially affected communities
-95 -



SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT MICROPROJECTS
Environmental and                Impacts                          Mitigation Measures
Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                 *Point-source pollution from landfill  * Adequate siting studies; good design
*Seepage of contaminants into aquifers  standards; consideration of alternative sites;
eContamination from clandestine     ensure adequate drainage; community
dumping                            participation; training
Air Quality           * Particulate contamination from   0 Spread and cover garbage at landfill site;
burning garbage                    prohibit or minimize burning design and siting
*Increase in haze and smog          subproject
Biological Environment
Natural Habitats      *Disturbance or loss of natural habitats * Adequate siting studies
Fauna and Flora       *Loss or degradation of vegetation  * Adequate siting studies
*Disruption or destruction of wildlife
Social Environment
Aesthetics and        *Unpleasant odors                  0 Provide complete collection and disposal
Landscape             *Marred landscapes near landfill site  service; pilot collection systems; cost
*Garbage littered about in towns from  recuperation; proper design of collection or
inefficient collection services    disposal systems; recycling programs;
community participation
Human Health          oMethane and other noxious chemicals  * Separate disposal system for medical or
emitted                            hazardous wastes; gas recovery systems;
*Disease transmission from animal and  safety procedures implemented; training of
insect vectors                     workers and beneficiaries; operation and
*Hazardous particulates emitted during  maintenance plans
burning
* Safety and health hazard from medical
and industrial wastes
Human Conmmunities    *Involuntary resettlement          * Compensation as per OD 4.20; control of
*Unpleasant living conditions adjacent  zoning; attention to route selection for waste
to site (e.g., frequent movement of  transfer vehicles
trucks)
- 96 -



ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW CHECKLIST
Microproject                                   Microproject #
Community
Municipality
Does the microproject
Present                           Necessary mitigation     contain the necessary
Environmental            Impacts   Description of impacts  measures                 mitigation measures?
Component
1. Soil Implementation   Yes_                                                       Yes_
phase                    No _                                                        No _
Exploitation phase       Yes_                                                        Yes_
No_                                                        No   -
2. Water Implementation  Yes_                                                        Yes___
phase                    No _                                                        No _
Exploitation phase       Yes_                                                        Yes___
N o  -      _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _ N o _
3. Air Implementation    Yes_                                                        Yes_
phase                    No _                                                        No _
Exploitation phase       Yes_                                                        Yes_
N o       __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ N o _ _
4. Flora and Fauna       Yes_                                                        Yes_
Implementation phase     No   -                                                      No _
Exploitation phase       Yes _                                                       Yes=_
N o   -    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ N o _ _
5. Esthetics and landscape Yes_                                                      Yes_
Implementation phase     No _                                                        No _
Exploitation phase       Yes_                                                        Yes_
No   -No_
6. Human health          Yes_                                                        Yes_
Implementation phase     No   -                                                      No _
Exploitation phase       Yes_                                                        Yes__
N o  -     _ _ _  __ _ _ __ _ _ _N                           o _ _
7. Human settlements     Yes_                                                        Yes_
Implementation phase     No                                                          No  -
Exploitation phase       Yes_                                                        Yes__
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ N o __                     _  _   _ _ _   _  _   N o
CONCLUSIONS OF THE APPRAISAL ENGINEER with regard to:
1. Scale of impacts on the enviromnent caused by the proposed
microproject;
2. Incorporation of obligatory mitigation measures, which were not
primarily included in the proposed microproject;
3. Realistic possibility of mitigating the negative impacts;
4. Necessity of applying Limited Environmental Assessment for the
microproject;
5. Transfer of microproject to the second phase of appraisal.
- 97 -



Appraisal engineer
Date
Signature
- 98 -



Additional Annex 16: Donor Activities In FYR Macedonia
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Donor          Sector        Program                          Description
ECHO        Institutional   Capacity       Building the capacity of the Social institutions.
Strengthening   Building       Budget: E2.8 million
Program of
Social
Institutions
ECHO        Social          Confidence     The Program will support eight multiethnic youth centers with
Building       the objective of promoting confidence building among youth
Program for    groups.
Youth_
Government Social           Local          The German Government in collaboration with the EU
Germany     Infrastructure  Infrastructure  Reconstruction Agency is providing support to the Goverment
Program        of Macedonian in the reconstruction and rehabilitation of large
scale works projects covering water and waste water
management, and bridges. This program of 13 million EURO is
managed by KfW.
Government Social                          Netherlands is donating E7.8 m for housing reconstruction in
Netherlands  Infrastructure                Lipkovo and Radusa area and El m for reconstruction of three
schools in the conflict areas.
Government Social           Local Initiatives The Program is financing a wide range of projects that address
of Canada                   Program        confidence building. Applicants could be NGOs or Municipal
authorities. Grants are up to US$33,000 and the total amount for
the project is US$800,000 for the next two years.
Govermment Social           Crisis Assistance The Project will support the independent media by providing
Switzerland                 Project       training courses for journalists and funds for covering runnng
costs.
International Social        Confidence    IOM will distribute 250 grants to NGOs, media houses and local
Organization                Building       Communities with a purpose of bringing together diverse groups
for Migration              Initiative      of FYR Macedonian citizens to engage in constructive
(IOM)                                      community identified and prioritized projects. Budget for this
year (until October): US$7 million. Until now, 40 grants have
been disbursed.
SIDA        Institutional   Management     The program focuses on management development needs of the
Strengthening   Development    local self government units, on citizens' initiatives and
Program for    mobilization for community development and on potentials for
Local          agriculture and SME development. Special attention is given to
Governments    environment, human rights and democracy and gender.
Possibilities for cross border activities will be thoroughly
examined after (NRF, Dec 2000-Dec 2003+)
Type: Grant, open ended-with program components decided on a
current basis. To date, seven components are estimated to cost a
total of 2,500,000 EURO for the period 2000-2003.
- 99 -



Duration: 2000-2002.
UNDP        Social         Youth          Through the generation of employment opportunities for youth
mployment     between the ages of 18 to 30, the project will provide productive
Sumploymet     alternatives to hostility and conflict and contribute to the
Support        alleviation of the socio-economic pressures related to the root
causes of the conflict.
Budget: US$300,000
UNDP        Institutional  Municipal      The program will assist up to 40 municipalities of varied sizes to
Strengthening  Development    improve local governments' institutional capacities, to ensure
Program        public participation and information and to initiate
inter-municipal cooperation. It will also establish up to four
Regional Centers for Local Governance, which will provide
support services to municipalities.
UNHCR       Social         Quick Impact   The Quick Impact Community Projects will address relatively
Community      modest community based investments regarding the basic needs
Projects       of the people with average of US$30,000 per project.
UNICEF      Social         Psycho-social  Psycho-social support for IDPs, refugees and people in the
Support Program conflict areas.
USAID        Social        Community      The Initiative will assist communities to plan and implement
Self-Help      projects that promote democracy and ethnic harmony and
Initiative     provide sustainable benefits to their inhabitants. Specifically, it
will help foster self-determination at the community level and
promote ethnic collaboration by achieving a number of
objectives related to economic development and participatory
community planning and implementation processes. The key
objectives are to:
- Mobilize project funding and technical assistance to address
priority community economic, community service and small
infrastructure needs.
- Establish open and collaborative planning, implementation,
and monitoring approaches in partner communities to prioritize,
address, and resolve community needs.
- Generate local employment and economic growth through
labor-intensive service and infrastructure projects, primarily by
creating opportunities for local contractors.
- Promote ethnic harmony by encouraging collaboration and
cooperation among diverse ethnic groups in the planning and
implementation of project activities.
- 100-



MAP SECTION






9   FED. REP. OF        <   j                            "scg    0    X                        FORMER YUGOSLAV
YUGOSLAVIA             0                          A                                                REPUBLIC
I                    Ifs.     -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~KRIV4
9'\~                       -F -,' , -\f '~     *c   ----.r.   -- _                            /            OF MACEDONIA
PALANKA                    B U L G A R I A
9>      ?Nyettne -f   r ,                 -- '       K 51.0R)  ' - \>  5V NICOLE _ * 7   2  \   254mOSpo Elevations in Meters:
(   2  GASTIVAR ,,  _   I  v   C J  ',-         I ...!  -  1 -2,000
C\         tk                             , ^ X BROD}                    0 -Tlr  t V-S, KOAN/ >  -_ , \ uPROBIS  1,001-2,000
.'o't-TErdv  '          7               PROBIS TI    -      D EiEhVO                              201-1,000
(I             SKQPJE         S~~~~~~~    ~     ~~V NKCOLE  .           HA                      0-200 inMtr
8*,, .1 --                       1       -;-. ,. ~, '  V/N/CA l   .o                   254C.A  Spat Elevations ireses
AGASTP/AR  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I  I  i,p        )~~~~~~~~~~~~-t-  \,~~~~~~~~~   0    Selected Cities~~~~~~~~~elctd  ite
cckg  __P.nnEL-a.(  A,..,,  ;  -  tu.  t'  r  r I  45 A  -   -- q                                 Major Cities
I$ I'l  \  ;   -   ,    ,,. .1/P . .,  .   < 'iFF'   '  _-  I 0u,   J   '_-~'              _ --BEROVO  Notional Capital
tnt            BROO| 7                  *l                                r                      4.r LRD  Airpo,rts
T/TOV  /ELES,              -1          RI                            _________-  BlrOLA i  3  AUSecodary Roads
-'> LaLc I  -  -t                ,.em        RADO V/S  I          )                          Primary Road,
K4CEV*,                                                                                           Other Railroads
;oba                 -c |             \ ir - I  '      ~> ooia ;t, ,s_
DEBAR                                                                                                      Le. -.i- ;.  .d --   l   s
Se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         nO.- r                                            -.  Riners.
$ ewt fjo Sp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  r .4-                                  0 j%     --- ----- -  Opiln  roondaries
n'      -  KRUSEVO                      a a  i ,;,  -       ISTRL,Ai4CA  i
CiO                               Bou.d. i_n
-1                                       -                                                 -Ineraiona  Bonodanios
I TROGA ~ ~     I     N,                            EGEIA      ii r
6HRID    /SA           PKAVADARCI                       )- 
B1ITOLA                                ~LV
h  ~~~~~~tJAUSTRIA J7-                                                                             -
ALBANIA     t.  tLc-,GREC                                                    -HUNGARYf
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    '                                      ,           tlc
coe.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sj  'A  corer.  A  2  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
C  Ip *- -Es   Koroaia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oi



