Report No. PID10961
Project Name             Macedonia, Former Yugoslav Republic of-(@) ...
Community Development Project
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Community Action Program
Project ID               MKPE76712
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF MACEDONIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address: 6 Dame Gruev St, 1000 Skopje,
Macedonia
Contact Person: Mr. Nikola Gruevski
Tel: (389-2) 116-012
Fax: (389-2) 117-280
Email: gordana@finance.gov.mk
Environment Category     F
Date PID Prepared        February 5, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                     March 18, 2002
Projected Board Date     May 30, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Notwithstanding FYR Macedonia's GNP per capita of US$1710 -- which is 20
percent below the ECA regional average -- the country has, on average,
social indicators that are more favorable than other countries in the
Region. Macedonia's life expectancy is 73 years compared to 69 in the
Region and infant mortality is 16 (per 1,000 live births) compared to 22
in the Region. The gross primary enrollment rate of 99t is significantly
high, although it is slightly below the average rate of 100w for the
Region. These averages however, mask the underlying social problems and
serious constraints to development -- which have intensified as a result
of the conflict which began in mid- February 2001. The aftermath of the
conflict has brought into sharp focus the need to address the key
development challenges of poverty, unemployment, disparities in living
standards, the poor state of social and economic services, and limited
public service capacity at the local level. Seeking and implementing
solutions to these problems are crucially important for fostering social
cohesion in Macedonia's multi-ethnic community, in the present
post-conflict phase.The Former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) of Macedonia
suffered major economic losses and social disruptions following the
breakup of the Yugoslav Federation in 1991, and the ensuing regional
conflicts. In the process, the country lost a large protected market for
its industrial products, key transport routes, large transfers from the
federal government, and foreign currency savings. Consequently, FYR
Macedonia emerged as a country with high levels of poverty and
unemployment among its population of around 2 million. Poverty. According
to the official poverty line, approximately 20 percent of the population
is poor, and two thirds of the poor live in the rural areas. Poverty is
also multi-dimensional in character. The poor include: the traditional



poor (mainly the rural poor), the new poor (those affected by the
transition, mainly comprising nonagricultural households), and the chronic
poor comprising the elderly, the disabled, the aged non-pensioners,
orphans, and other disadvantaged groups.    Characteristics of poverty
include: limited asset ownership, large household size, and low access to
education, health and social services. Improvement of living conditions
of the poor is constrained by the run-down state of the country's social
and economic services. Schools and health facilities built over 20-30
years ago have not been adequately maintained and are in a state of
disrepair. In many areas, more so in the rural areas, water supply systems
are not satisfactory; lack of drinking water and sewage disposal are major
problems in some rural areas. The lack of adequately maintained
neighborhood access roads is also a major impediment for the poor to have
ready access to service centers.       Unemployment.    The high level of
unemployment of about 32t is one of the most pressing social problems
facing Macedonia.  Unemployment has remained at around 30t over the past
decade due to the downturn in economic activity after the separation from
the former Yugoslav Republic in 1991, the lack of adequate economic growth
since then, and the rigidities in the labor market. Since 1991, a large
number of factories had been shut down, or forced to operate at low
capacity, and a number of major public enterprises had been privatized.
Consequently, large numbers of employees suffered layoffs exacerbating
unemployment. The unemployment situation has worsened with new entrants
to the labor market who cannot find jobs. Capacity for Service Delivery at
the Local Level: The Government of Macedonia is committed to the
decentralization of its public administration, and has made clear
provisions to this effect in the country's Constitution. Furthermore, the
Law on Local Government presented to Parliament in March 2001 has a number
of important provisions that will impact local government finance and
service delivery. The provisions are designed to enhance competencies,
particularly relating to public services, health, education, social
assistance to poor families, care for the disabled, care for children and
youth with mental illness and learning disabilities and
transport/accommodation of students. Notwithstanding the Government's
commitment, the country's public service is highly centralized; compared
to countries in Europe. Social Cohesion: The recent conflict exacerbated
the differences between the ethnic Macedonian and ethnic Albanian
communities. Thus, a key challenge faced by the Government is to build
social cohesion through safeguards for minority rights, greater inclusion
of minority groups in the country's administrative and development
activities, and providing equity in access to economic and social
services. The immediate challenge is to facilitate the return of a large
number of ethnic Macedonians and ethnic Albanians who were displaced, as a
result of the recent conflict, in their former communities. Beyond the
short-term, progressive reduction of the perceived inequalities in civil
society would be crucial to the improvement of inter-ethnic relations.
2. Objectives
The main rationale of the project is to provide support to the Government
of Macedonia in its post-conflict development efforts aimed at reducing
poverty, restoring normalcy in areas of conflict, and fostering social
cohesion amongst its people. The focus of the project will be to help
attain this objective at the local level through self-development
interventions designed to restore confidence and strengthen the
community's trust in development programs supported by the Government.
- 2 -



The project will help build a development process at the local level that
is based on participatory approaches and community-based schemes, which
will be particularly valuable in helping to restore local capacity and in
bringing the two major ethnic groups in the country together through
common activities to provide shared opportunities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed community-based project will support an integrated
development  program designed to facilitate the transition from conflict
to peace, in keeping with the Government's post conflict priorities. In
this regard, the Bank has a comparative advantage in Macedonia because it
can assist the peace process through combining its development mandate
with its international experience in post-conflict reconstruction.
Furthermore, the Bank's assistance in this intervention can have a wide
ranging development impact in Macedonia, because of its intermediation
role between the Government's development policies and community-based
change.
4. Description
I. Community Investment Projects
1. Community Infrastructure
2. Community Services
II. Employment Promotion Services
1. Employment Surveys at the local level.
2. Employment Support Services at local level.
III. Local Level Institutional Strengthening
1. Capacity building and TA at the Microproject Level
2. Capacity building and TA at the Local Government Level
IV. Community Outreach, Information Dissemination and Impact Monitoring
1. Technical assistance and training
2. Information materials and promotional literature
3. Workshops and surveys
V. Institutional Support to the CDP PIU
1. Support to the general administration and management of project
2. Capacity building and TA to staff in CDP PIU
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                         0.5
IDA                              5
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                0.5
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL
INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED)      4
Total Project Cost               10
6. Implementation
During the project identification mission, it was agreed that the
counterpart ministry for the CDP will be the Ministry of Finance and that
the implementation of the project will be carried out through a Project
-3 -



Implementation Unit. The legal status of this unit would be one of an
autonomous agency reporting to the Ministry of Finance with a Board which
will have wide representation from all relevant ministries and
participating donors. The Organizational Structure of CDP will be
designed during Appraisal to meet the institutional challenges and
evolving needs under the project. It was also agreed that initially,
funds from a Post Conflict Fund (PCF), if approved, will help set up an
interim project implementation unit for the CDP to administer key project
preparation activities which have been identified in a Project Preparation
Activity Matrix developed following the project Identification mission.
The first step in this process will be to reach formal agreement on the
selection of an interim administrative unit (i.e. already existing Project
Implementation Unit) to provide assistance with initial project
preparation activities. The next step will be to hire key staff in the
CDP PIU and set-up an office for the Unit. Initially, an intensified
training program, to be financed under the PCF, will be carried out to
build the capacity CDP technical staff. The training will focus
specifically on building the required capacity of staff in each department
to manage their functions and responsibilities in community outreach and
promotion activities, management, coordination and monitoring of the
different component activities under the project; training and technical
coordination, and monitoring and evaluation. On-the job training will also
be provided to the PIU to assist them in formulating strategies for each
of the department to be created. Technical assistance will be provided to
assist the PIU in the development of guidelines and procedures for project
activities to be incorporated in the CDP Operational Manual.     A
Management Information system will be developed during project
preparation, with the assistance of an MIS specialist, for maintaining
data relevant to poverty targeting, and facilitating contracting and
payment by storing information on contractors, unit prices, an field
progress. In broad terms, the MIS will integrate general information on
community activities with the financial management and cost accounting
systems. An integrated financial management system will be developed
comprising of a financial accounting module, suitable to meet the CDP
statutory reporting requirements according to the Macedonian accounting
regulation and to project reporting requirements (quarterly PMRs).
7. Sustainability
The CDP will focus on building capacity at the local level, which, inter
alia, are designed to ensure the sustainability of the microprojects and
services carried out under the project. Capacity building envisaged under
the project will be comprehensive, and will cover the wider process of
developing, managing, operating, and maintaining infrastructure
facilities. Under this approach sustainability will be achieved through
the provision of the following incentives at the local level: (a) quality
of works through adherence to standards, use of qualified staff, and
periodic assessment; (b) economic efficiency - demonstration of benefits
to local communities in excess of direct and indirect costs; (c)
generation of employment at the local level; (d) accountability of local
governments in the development, use, operation, and maintenance of public
facilities constructed under the project, and (e) the development of
effective partnerships at the local level between local governments and
local community groups.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
- 4 -



Reconciliation and Social Cohesion: Positive experience documented under
the Kosovo Community Development Project has demonstrated the importance
having a community-based project serve as a catalyst for a process in
which citizens in the targeted communities, especially in mixed and
minority communities, gradually come together over time and participate in
the design, implementation and monitoring of projects which respond to the
common good of the community. The project has shown that one of the key
ingredients for implementing projects in mixed communities yielding
positive results is to allow the time that is needed for community
interaction to evolve. Thus, an incremental, progressive and flexible
approach must be built into the participatory mechanisms and procedures
developed under the project. Equally important is the creation of a
setting for the participation of community members where there is a common
interest and a common goal and where, over time, community residents come
to appreciate that their interaction is mutually beneficial.Sectoral
Policies and Investment Priorities: Experience under social funds have
shown that there is a critical need for ensuring that social fund
activities are consistent with social sector strategy priorities,
government reform programs, and activities of municipal, NGO, UN, and
donor agencies. It is therefore important to ensure that projects focus on
greater coordination of social fund type of activities with relevant
sectoral policies (i.e. health and education) and investment priorities.
This can be achieved through: (i) the development of a more effective
information, outreach, and communications strategy, and its implementation
through a special community, outreach and promotion unit as part of the
institutional structure of the PIU; (ii) development of mechanisms to
carry out effective community outreach, information dissemination, and
impact monitoring under the project; and (iii) regular working level
contacts among line ministries, NGOs, donor agencies, and Bank project
implementation units.Project Sustainability: Experience under the
implementation of several social fund operations in the Region has clearly
demonstrated the critical need to improve project sustainability. To
improve project sustainability, lessons learned have pointed to the
development of a comprehensive framework encompassing strong institutional
support from the project PIU, effective systems and procedures, and
greater involvement of key stakeholders. Specifically, PIUs need to focus
on strengthening their organizational structure and institutional
mechanisms to: (i) improve the quality of works through compliance with
technical standards and closer supervision; (ii) develop the capacity of
local authorities through training and technical assistance to help
formulate budgets which provide adequate financing for operation and
maintenance of completed community-based microprojects; and (iii)
strengthen local government and community involvement in the design,
implementation, and maintenance of microprojects. Poverty Targeting: Some
of the lessons learned under social funds carried out in the Bank related
to poverty targeting are: (i) a clearly formulated poverty targeting
strategy and an allocation mechanism based on objective criteria and
poverty data ensures the flow of project benefits to the neediest segments
of the population; (ii) the use of a well developed poverty targeting
strategy and an allocation mechanism will mitigate political pressures in
the allocation of funds; and (iii) a well developed poverty targeting
strategy should have sufficient flexibility, within the overall
allocations, to target specific needs on a demand-driven basis.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
- 5 -



10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No major environmental issues are anticipated under
the proposed project, given the relatively small size and rehabilitation
nature of most community infrastructure projects. However, certain
project types such as water supply rehabilitation schemes to be funded
under the project may require special environmental mitigation measures to
protect quality of the water source (in-situ and upstream). Environmental
mitigation measures may also be needed in the case of sewage, sanitation
systems and irrigation rehabilitation works sub-projects. Environmental
concerns will be mitigated in the selection and implementation of
sub-projects. The Operational Manual of the project will lay out
procedures and implementation arrangements for ensuring full consideration
of environmental safeguards, in accordance with the Bank environmental
assessment guidelines. Each microproject will be individually screened
and reviewed by the CDP - by specific type - for any negative impacts, and
mitigation measures will be proposed where necessary. The community
proposal will incorporate an environmental review checklist, and the
microproject appraisal document will adapt type-specific analysis, costs,
and mitigation measures. Training will be provided to technical
specialists in the CDP to carry out implementation of sub-projects
according to agreed environmental standards.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Caroline Mascarell
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-0059
Fax: 202-477-3387
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 22, 2002.
-6-



