Report No. 23649
Report No: I076712 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/13/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF Project ID: P076712
Project: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT Task Team Leader: Caroline Mascarell
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 26, 2002       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 30, 2002      IDA Amount ($m): 5.00
Managing Unit: ECSHD     Sector: MC - Community Action Program
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The main objective of the Community Development Project (CDP) is to
provide support to the Government of Macedonia in its post-conflict
development efforts aimed at building local social capital, fostering
reconciliation amongst its people, and minimizing the likelihood of
further conflict. To attain this objective, the focus of the project will
be on piloting small-scale community-based initiatives in selected
demonstration communities under an integrated development framework
designed to respond to urgent needs and facilitate the transition from
conflict to peace in support of the Government's post-conflict
priorities. The project will help build a development process at the
local level that is based on participatory approaches, community-based
schemes and gender-responsive actions that respond to priority
infrastructure and service needs, and that will build the required
capacity at the local level. The project will also support the
Government's decentralization initiatives designed to increase the
competencies and accountability of municipal administration, increase the
participation of citizens in decision-making and ultimately, enhance
empowerment at the local level. While the primary impact of the project
will be felt at the local level, the ultimate impact of this investment
will be to help fashion a climate of reconciliation which will bring
different ethnic groups together through common activities and shared
opportunities.
The specific outcomes of the project will be to:
(i)    Improve the quality, access and availability of community
infrastructure and services in poor, conflict-affected, mixed and
vulnerable communities.
(ii) Promote institution building at the grassroots level focusing on
assisting local governments and communities to plan and manage their
investments and improve the decentralized management of service delivery.
(iii) Support inter-community integration and empowerment through
effective outreach programs and partnership building at the local level.
(iv) Promote gender equality and empower women through their active
participation in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of
community-based development activities.



(v) Enhance national level development planning and policy formulation
through impact monitoring and evaluation of outputs generated by the local
development initiatives supported by the project.
The above outcomes are closely interwoven, and reinforce each other.
First, construction activities connected with community infrastructure and
services in a particular local area will create output across sectors and
short-term employment in a number of fields. Second, institutional
building and partnership formation activities will provide support to
carry out more effectively the community infrastructure and services
activities. Third, the active involvement of women in all phases of the
project will increase their employment, role in decision-making, and
participation in local activities. Fourth, the experience gained through
local level development, impact monitoring and evaluation surveys will
help enhance the quality of development planning and policy formulation at
the national level.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
I. Community Investment Projects (US$3.69 million)
1. Community Infrastructure
1.1 Financing microprojects for the rehabilitation of small-scale social
infrastructure and priority economic infrastructure.
1.2 Financing microprojects for the rehabilitation of school heating
systems.
1.3 Financing of school furniture (desks, chairs, blackboards, etc.).
1.4 Financing of consultant services for microproject design and
supervision
2. Community Services
2.1 Financing small grants programs.
2.2 Financing of conference, seminar, and workshop activities designed to
enhance inter-ethnic relations.
II. Local Level Institutional Strengthening (US$0.24 million)
1. Capacity building and TA at the Microproject Level
2. Capacity building and TA at the Local Government Level
3. Employment surveys to strengthen local development plans
III. Community Outreach, Information Dissemination and Impact Monitoring
(US$0.3 million)
1. Information materials and promotional literature
2. Workshops, surveys and beneficiary assessments
3. Financing of special studies and reviews.
IV. Institutional Support to the CDP PIU (US$0.77 million)
1. Support to the general administration and management of project
2. Capacity building and TA to staff in CDP PIU
3. Financing of annual financial audits
4. Financing of annual procurement and technical reviews
-2 -



I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be implemented in several regions of Macedonia. As
infrastructure microprojects are demand driven, it is not know ex-ante the
exact location of the community works. However, according to the
envisaged poverty targeting, it is expected that some microprojects would
be located in areas affected by the recent conflict and in areas with
mixed communities and vulnerable groups.
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary
Assessment)
Comments: The proposed project was given the environmental category rating
FI (Financial Intermediary) given that the community infrastructure
component is designed as a social fund type activity. The demand-driven
nature of investments under this component will be known only after
project implementation begins. The Project Implementing Unit (PIU) will
have the responsibility for monitoring sub-project implementation
including ensuring that the sub-projects meet the environmental
requirements of the country and are consistent with Bank's guidelines.
The environmental section of the project's Operational Manual has been
cleared by ECSSD and was submitted to the InfoShop on March 11, 2002.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No major environmental issues are anticipated under the proposed
project, given the relatively small size and rehabilitation nature of most
community infrastructure projects. However, certain project types such as
water supply rehabilitation schemes to be funded under the project may
require special environmental mitigation measures to protect quality of
the water source (in-situ and upstream). Environmental mitigation
measures may also be needed in the case of sewage, sanitation systems and
irrigation rehabilitation works sub-projects.
-3 -



II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
NA
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
NA
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
NA
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Regarding environmental safeguards, this is covered in section 5.1
Environment.
Environmental concerns will be mitigated in the selection and
implementation of sub-projects. The Operational Manual of the project
lays out procedures and implementation arrangements for ensuring full
consideration of environmental safeguards, in accordance with the Bank
environmental assessment guidelines.    It describes existing environmental
regulations and standards relevant to the project and make reference to
institutions at local and central level responsible for issuing permits,
licenses and enforcing environmental standards compliance. It also
provides detailed guidelines for the PIU and the project proposers on
environmental screening, appraisal and monitoring applied to the
microprojects. Each microproject will be individually screened and
reviewed by the CDP - by specific type - for any negative impacts, and
mitigation measures (a sample EMP is included in the OM for those projects
with more complex environmental impacts). The community proposal will
incorporate an environmental review checklist, and the microproject
appraisal document will adapt type-specific analysis, costs, and
mitigation measures. Training will be provided to technical specialists
in the CDP to carry out the evaluation and monitoring of sub-projects
according to agreed environmental standards.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Community Implementation Committees (i.e. local government officials and
citizens of communities) and municipal governments will be the key
stakeholders of the community infrastructure projects. Stakeholders will
be consulted on a case-by-case basis, depending upon the nature of the
proposed project, during the screening process, during the development of
plans to address potential environmental impact, and during microproject
supervision to assess environmental aspects of microprojects. Typically,
CDP promotion staff and appraisal engineers will hold discussions on-site
with the community during screening and with both the community and the
municipality in preparing and reviewing environmental assessments and
environmental management plans if and when required. When possible,
experts within the municipality will participate directly in the
preparation of environmental assessments and plans. Communities must
obtain all necessary permits and clearances from the municipality before
final approval by CDP of any project proposal. During project
implementation, follow-up engineers will monitor and supervise the quality
- 4 -



of works, which includes an assessment of the environmental standards of
the microprojects. In addition, annual technical reviews will be carried
out by independent consultants to assess the quality of works, including
environmental standards, of a number of selected projects of different
typology.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
[XI SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
Insert page break here
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
The need for an EMP will be determined on a case-by-case basis depending
on the typology of infrastructure microprojects selected by the
community. A draft chapter of the Operational Manual (OM) on
Environmental guidelines was prepared, cleared and submitted to the
Info-Shop. This section of the OM lays out procedures and implementation
arrangements for ensuring full consideration of environmental safeguards,
in accordance with the Bank environmental guidelines. A sample EMP is
- 5 -



included in the OM for those projects with more complex environmental
impacts. The environmental guidelines will be discussed with the
project's counterpart during Appraisal.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Caroline Mascarell      03/12/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name     Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz  03/13/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Michal Rutkowski        03/12/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



