Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY  
April 15, 2004 
Mr. Nikola Popovski 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Dame Gruev 7, Skopje 
 
Re:  Dutch Grant for the Community Development Project 
Grant No. TF052503
Dear Sir: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the 
Government of Netherlands, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million five hundred  
thousand US dollars ($1,500,000) (the Grant) to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (the 
Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is the Bank’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement 
and any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank 
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
/s/: Nancy Cooke 
Acting Country Director 
South East Europe  
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
BORROWER 
 
By: /s/ 
Nikola 
Popovski 
Title: 
Minister of Finance 
Date:  
May 7, 2004
Page  2
2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purposes of the Grant are to co-
finance the Recipient’s Community Development 
Project (the Project), which has as its main objectives to support the Recipient in its post-conflict 
development efforts aimed at fostering reconciliation amongst its people, reducing social tensions 
and building local social capital.  
 
1.2 
The components and activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a) 
Community Investment Projects 
 
Provision of grants to support small-scale community investment projects that are 
designed and implemented by the communities. 
 
(b) Local 
Level 
Institutional 
Strengthening 
 
Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen local level institutions and 
community groups through a capacity building program aimed at improving the municipal 
administration and increase citizen participation in decision-making. 
 
(c) 
Community Outreach, Information Dissemination and Project Impact Monitoring 
and Evaluation 
 
Provision of technical assistance and training to: (i) hold workshops and meetings with 
central government, local communities and donors; (ii) carry out the community mapping/profiling 
exercise; (iii) establish community citizen information networks in a few selected municipalities; and 
(iv) organize public hearings, referendums and surveys. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services, goods 
and works required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Page  3
3
Amount of the Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated Expenditures 
to 
 Category
(in US Dollars)
be Financed
(1) Grants 
for 
Community 1,200,000 
100% 
 Investment 
Projects 
 
 
 
(2) Consultants 
Services 
200,000 
100% 
 
(3) Training 
 
100,000 
100% 
 
________ 
 
TOTAL 1,500,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “training” means any expenditure incurred by 
the Recipient on account of training activities under the Project, including reasonable and 
necessary travel expenses for trainees and trainers, per diem allowances for trainees and trainers, 
registration fees of participants to training activities, cost of training materials, cost of study tours 
and translation, seminars, workshops, rental of facilities, and other expenses for Project related 
training activities as may be agreed by the Bank. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or services supplied 
from such territories; or (iii) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such payment, 
to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 2005 or 
such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).   However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date 
if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by the Bank within four months after the 
Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories 
in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such 
Category, the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of 
the Grant then allocated to another Category which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to 
meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by Minister of Finance 
or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
Page  4
4
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the 
Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than 
US$25,000 equivalent; and (c) goods, works, training and payments for grants, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain a special 
deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment 
II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect  the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the  financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) 
above for each such fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards, acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year (or such other  period 
agreed to by the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in 
scope and  detail satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning such records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:  (i) retain, until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the audit report for or covering the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (ii) enable the Bank’s representatives to 
examine such records; and (iii) ensure that such  statements of expenditure are included in the audit 
for each fiscal year, or other period agreed to by the Bank, referred to in subparagraph (b) above. 
 
Page  5
5
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient 
to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred 
and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein 
specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development 
credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended. 
 
6.2. 
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities. 
 
Page  6
6
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of 
consultants for services, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for design and setting up of citizen information centers under paragraph 1.2 (c) 
of the Annex and audit estimated to cost less than US$10,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  7
7
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Goods, works and related services required for 
community investment projects under 
paragraph 1.2 (a) of the Annex
 may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.15 of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999,
 and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association and specified in the Operational Manual. 
 
Page  8
8
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $150,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 
4
of this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Grant Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  9
9
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
