Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3649-MK 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Community Development Project) 
 
between 
 
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 
(the Borrower) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) 
 
Dated January 9, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3649-MK 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 2003, between the Borrower and the 
Association. 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means any community group or association, or an 
individual, which is a recipient or proposed to be a recipient of a grant under Part A.2 of 
the Project; 
(b) 
“Community Implementing Committee” means a community-based 
organization, including representatives of local government, responsible for carrying out 
of a Microproject; 
Page  3
2
-
-
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(d)  
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the PIU out of 
the proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary for a Grant Program (as defined hereafter); 
(e) 
“Grant Program” means a community social services program financed 
or proposed to be financed from the grant facility under Part A.2 of the Project, and 
selected in accordance with the principles and procedures, and eligibility criteria set forth 
in the Operational Manual (as defined hereafter); 
 (f) 
“Microproject” means a community-based investment project selected 
for implementation under Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with the principles and 
procedures, and eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as defined 
hereafter); 
 (g) 
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual to be adopted by 
[PIU], setting forth principles, procedures and criteria for the implementation of the 
Project, satisfactory to the Association; 
 (h) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established by the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower for the purposes of Project management and 
implementation and referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, or any successor 
thereto; 
 (i) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(j) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 4,100,000). 
Page  4
3
-
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) by the PIU on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary 
under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for a 
Grant Program under Part A.2 of the Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its National Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set 
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Page  5
4
-
-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing 
November 15, 2012 and ending May 15, 2022.  Each installment shall be five percent 
(5%) of such principal amount. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, environmental, social and cultural practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) open the Project Account in a bank acceptable to 
the Association and deposit into said Account an initial amount equivalent to US$100,000; 
(b) thereafter maintain the Project Account, and replenish it semi-annually with funds 
sufficient to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement for such period; (c) use the amount in the Project Account exclusively for 
financing the Borrower’s contribution to Project expenditures; and (d) ensure that sufficient 
annual allocations will be made in the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart 
contribution to the costs of the Project during its implementation. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  6
5
-
-
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said
 report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
Page  7
6
-
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
Page  8
7
-
-
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the reporting obligations set forth in 
Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of this Agreement,  the Borrower shall prepare and furnish  to the 
Association financial monitoring reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
 
(i)  
set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
set forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
PIU has been established and is operational with structure, functions and 
staffing necessary to start the Project implementation and satisfactory to the Association;  
and 
Page  9
8
-
-
(b) 
the Project Account referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement has 
been opened with the initial deposit equivalent to $100,000. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance 
Dame Gruev 14 
1000 Skopje 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
51119 
  (389-2) 
117280 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
9
-
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
BORROWER 
 
By 
/s/ Nikola Dimitrov 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/  Christiaan J. Poortman 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
10
-
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Grants 
under 
 
 
 
Part A.2 of the Project 
400,000 
 
100% 
 
(2) 
Works under 
2,000,000 
  
84% 
 
Part A.1 of the Project 
 
 
 
(3) 
Goods 
 
100% of foreign 
 
(a) under Part  A.1 
280,000 
 
expenditures, 
 
of the Project 
 
100% of local 
 
expenditures  
 
(b) under Part D 
70,000 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
of the Project 
 
and 80% of local  
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally  
 
(4) 
Consultants’ 
 
100% of expenditures 
 
services 
 
of foreign consultants; 
 
87%
of expenditures 
 
(a) under Part  A.1 
175,000 
 
of local firms; 85% of 
 
of the Project 
 
expenditures of local  
 
individual consultants 
 
(b) under Parts B, C 
600,000 
 
 
and D of the Project 
 
 
 
(5) Training 
95,000 
 
100% 
 
Page  12
11
-
-
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(6) 
Incremental  
80,000 
 
100% of expenditures 
 
operating costs 
 
incurred through  
 
June 30, 2003; 
 
90%
of expenditures 
 
incurred through 
 
June 30, 2004; and 
 
70%
of expenditures 
 
thereafter 
(7) Unallocated 
400,000 
 
 
TOTAL
 4,100,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “training” means training activities (other than consultants’ 
services) to be carried out under the Project, including the cost of study tours, cost of 
workshops, training materials, and related travel expenditures, and boarding, lodging and 
per diem allowances; and 
(d) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means the operating costs 
incurred by the PIU on account of Project implementation for communications, utilities, 
office supplies and maintenance, fuel and vehicle operation and maintenance, and other 
reasonable and necessary activities directly related to Project implementation, 
management, monitoring and evaluation as may be agreed upon by the Association. 
Page  13
12
-
-
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals in respect of payments under categories (3)(b), (4), 
(5) and (6), in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 300,000, may 
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 
2002; and (b) payments under Categories (1), (2) and (3)(a) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 above unless the Operational Manual referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of  this 
Agreement has been adopted by the Borrower. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for (i) goods and works under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of  individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than $25,000 equivalent each; and (iv) payments for grants, training and 
incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
13
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower in its post-conflict 
development efforts aimed at fostering reconciliation amongst its people, reducing social 
tensions and building local social capital.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:  
Part A
:
Community Investment Projects
1. Community 
Infrastructure 
Microprojects 
Rehabilitation of education and health care facilities, local access roads, small-
scale water supply, sanitation and irrigation systems, and other priority social and 
economic infrastructure at the community level through provision of goods, services and 
carrying out of works. 
2. 
Community Social Services Grant Facility 
 
Provision of small grants to Beneficiaries for the implementation of selected 
Grant Programs in conflict-affected and other economically or socially vulnerable 
communities. 
Part B
:
Local Level Institutional Strengthening
1. Microproject 
Level 
 
Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the capacity of local 
governments, Community Implementing Committees and Grant Beneficiaries to identify, 
design, implement and monitor the activities under Part A of the Project. 
2. 
Local Government Level 
 
Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the capacity of local 
governments at the municipal level in the area of development planning, finance 
administration, asset management and information dissemination. 
Page  15
14
-
-
Part C
:
Community Outreach, Information Dissemination and Project Impact Monitoring     
and Evaluation
Provision of technical assistance and training for carrying out information 
dissemination, outreach programs, surveys, beneficiary assessments, workshops for 
Project impact monitoring, and special studies and reviews. 
 
Part D
:
Project Management and Implementation
Provision of technical assistance in Project management, implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation, including procurement and financial management related 
activities, training, and financing of Incremental Operating Costs. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005. 
Page  16
15
-
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
School furniture estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $420,000 equivalent, and works under Part A.1 of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,720,000 equivalent,  may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  17
16
-
-
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 4. 
Community Participation
Goods, works and related services required for Part A of the Project may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and specified in the 
Operational Manual.  
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Part A.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,720,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including 
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable 
to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
Page  18
17
-
-
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part B above, and the first two contracts procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in  Part C.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in  Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 above, the following procedures shall 
apply: 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received and a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(ii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II. 
Page  19
18
-
-
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for design and supervision of Microprojects under Part A.1 of the 
Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $253,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for auditing and other services of routine or standard nature estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $480,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services for design and setting up of citizen information centers, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $65,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  20
19
-
-
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $323,000 equivalent, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(c) 
Terms of reference for all consulting assignments shall be subject to the 
Association’s prior review. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  21
20
-
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain the PIU and 
shall ensure that it is staffed by personnel with qualifications and under terms of 
reference, and functions at all times in accordance with procedures necessary and 
appropriate for the carrying out of the Project, and satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause PIU to prepare regularly and furnish to the Association 
quarter and annual reports on Project implementation, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content 
satisfactory to the Association and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Operational Manual without obtaining the prior approval of the Association.  The 
Operational Manual shall cover, among others, the following matters: (a) eligibility 
criteria for Microprojects and Grant Programs; (b) the principles and procedures to be 
followed for the approval of Microprojects and Grant Programs; (c) regional allocation of 
Project funds; (d) community contribution requirements for Microprojects and Grant 
Programs; (e) the terms and conditions to be included in grant agreements with 
Beneficiaries; and (f) the indicators to be utilized by the PIU in monitoring the progress 
of the Project. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that Microprojects and Grant Programs are designed 
and implemented in compliance with environmental standards satisfactory to the 
Association and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower 
relating to health, safety and environmental protection, and in compliance with the 
Operational Manual. 
 
5. 
Grants under Part A.2 of the Project shall be made on terms and conditions 
whereby the PIU shall obtain, through a standard grant agreement, rights adequate to 
protect its interest and those of the Association, including the right to: 
 
(a) 
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Grant Program with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economic, financial, 
environmental and cultural practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, 
promptly as needed the funds, facilities and other resources required for the Project; 
(b) 
require that a portion of the cost of the Grant Program be provided by the 
Beneficiary, in accordance with the principles set forth in the Operational Manual; 
Page  22
21
-
-
(c) 
require that (i) the works , goods and consultant’s services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual; and (ii) such works, goods and services be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Grant Program; 
(d) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods and the sites, works, plans and construction 
related to the Grant Program, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents; 
(e) 
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity hereunder to be made payable in a currency 
freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; 
 
(f) 
obtain all such information as the Association shall reasonably request 
relating to the Grant Program and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; and 
(g) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit and require the refund of the disbursed amounts of the grant, upon 
failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under the grant agreement. 
Page  23
22
-
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1-6 set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $200,000 until  the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 800,000.  
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  24
23
-
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  25
24
-
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
