Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4074-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN A?? AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$312.0 MILLION
TO
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
SOUTHEAST POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
May 15, 1985
This dxocunent has a  n;1 'cted disbikitio md zmay be used by recipients may in the performnnc of
heir official dutes. Rs ctents my not othrwise be disclosed wntbout World Bank sahrintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
As of December 31, 1984
US$l = CrS2,720.00
CR$1 = US$.00037
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CELPE           -  Companhia Eletrica de Pernambuco
CESP            -  Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo
CRESF           -  Companhia Hidro Eletrica de Sao Francisco
CIER            -  Comissao de Integracao Eletrica Regional
(Southamerican Electric Integration Commission)
CPFL           -  Companhia Paulista de Forca e Luz
(state utility in the North of Sao Paulo state)
DNAEE           -  Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
(electric sector regulatory agency)
ELETROBRAS     -  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
(federally-owned electric utility holding company)
ELETROPAULO    -  Eletricidade de Sao Paulo S.A.
(state utility in the metropolitan area of the city of
Sao Paulo)
FURNAS          -  Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A.
(federal utility in charge of generation and transmission
in the Southeast)
LIGHT           - Light Servicos de Eletricidade S.A.
(federal utility in the metropolitan area of Rio de
Janeiro)



BRAZIL               FOR OFFICIAL usE ONLY
SOUTHEAST POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS)
Guarantor:          Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries:      - Eletricidade de Sao Paulo S.A. (ELETROPAULO)
- Servicos de Eletricidade S.A. (LIGHT)
- Companhia Paulista de Forca e Luz (CPFL)
- Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS)
Amount:             US$312.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Relending Terms:   ELETROBRAS will relend US$310.0 million of the proceeds of
the loan to the beneficiaries on the-same terms and
conditions as those of the loan. Interest and foreign
exchange risks will be borne by the beneficiaries. The
balance will be used by ELETROBRAS to finance studies for the
preparation of energy conservation programs and training for
power distribution planning.
Project             The proposed project would support Government efforts to
Description:      reverse the financial deterioration of the sector.  It is a
priority project within the Government's 1984-88 Sector
Development Plan which the Bank has analyzed and approved.
The proposed loan would finance the expansion of power
distribution systems in highly industrialized areas; studies
and training for power distribution planning; and studies for
the preparation of energy conservation programs. The
proposed project consists of portions of the investment
programs in distribution of the three beneficiaries.
Benefits            The proposed project would allow the beneficiaries to
and Risks:        distribute the energy generated at hydroelectric plants
nearing completion to meet projected demand in the most
populated and industrialized areas in the country; to restore
or maintain the reliability of service to key consumer
groups; and, to start with the preparation of electric energy
conservation programs. The project itself does not present
any special technical risk. The main risk derives from the
financial difficulties currently faced by the Brazilian power
sector.  These are being addressed through a number of
measures to be agreed between the Government and the Bank
that will progressively improve the financial condition of
the power sector (para. 54).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                          --Us$ million
Local   Foreign    Total        X
ELETROPAULO subproject              257.6    180.9      438.5      40.5
LIGHT subproject                    107.1      63.6     170.7      15.8
CPFL subproject                      89.4     44.3      133.7      12.4
ELETROBRAS studies                    1.5       1.5       3.0       0.3
Base cost a/                        455.6    290.3      745.9      69.0
Physical contingencies               26.8     17.1       43.9       4.1
Price contingencies                 147.6      93.6     241.2      22.3
Total Cost                          630.0    401.0   1,031.0       95.4
Interest during construction          -       50.0       50.0       4.6
Total Financing required            630.0    451.0   1,081.0      100.0
Financing Plan:                          -           US$ million
Local   Foreign    Total        Z
ELETROPAUJLO                        357.0     55.0      412.0      38.0
LIGHT                               147.0     29.0      176.0      16.0
CPFL                                124.0     11.0      135.0      13.0
ELETROBRAS                            2.0      -          2.0       -
IBRD                                  -      312.0      312.0      29.0
Other Borrowings                              44.0       44.0       4.0
Total                               630.0    451.0   1,081.0      100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY   1986 b/ 1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Annual      19      38    65    84    61    29    13       3
Cumulative  19      57   122   206   267   296   309   312
Rate of Return:  ELETROPAIJLO:       8.7%
LIGHT:             5.4%
CPFL:             17.0%
The rates of return were calculated using agreed retail
tariffs as a proxy for benefits and costing electricity
purchases at the long-run marginal generation cost.c/
a! December 1984 price level.
bI Includes an initial deposit of US$10.0 million to the Special Account.
c; Reflect tariff increases based on Bank-Government agreement of November
1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPO1t AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$312.0 MILLION
TO CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE SOUTHEAST POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to ELETROBRAS with the guarantee of the Federative Republic of Brazil
for the equivalent of US$312.0 million to help finance the Southeast Power
Distribution project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3
years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. US$310
million of the proceeds of the loan would be made available by ELETROBRAS
on the same terms as the Bank loan to the beneficiaries-Eletricidade de
Sao Paulo S.A. (ELETROPAULO), Servicos de Eletricidade S.A. (LIGHT), and
Companhia Paulista de Forca e Luz (CPFL)-to finance priority distribution
facilities included in their 1985 to 1989 investment programs. The balance
will be used by ELETROBRAS to finance the preparation of energy
conservation programs and training for power distribution planning.
The beneficiaries will assume the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1Y
2.        An economic report entitled -Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 when President Joao
Figueiredo completed his six-year term in office. Its main economic
priorities have included the growth of agriculture, the expansion of
manufactured exports and reduced dependence on imported oil, and at the
same time an improvement in the situation and prospects of the most
economically disadvantaged people and regions, especially in the
Northeast. The prime political concern had been the return to a fully
democratic system of government. Much of the Government's attention, since
1980, bad to be diverted froL longer-term political and economic change
because of the stabilization problems confronting Brazil. In spite of the
economic recession and consequent social pressures, however, substantial
progress has been made towards the structural changes needed for Brazil's
next stage of development.
1/ Parts I and II of this report are similar to the corresponding sections
of the President's Repo:t for the Federal Railway - Export Corridor
Project (No. P-4067-BR) dated May 9, 1985.



- 2 -
4.        The presidential elections held in January 1985 resulted in the
election of Tancredo Neves, whose subsequent inability to take office on
schedule presented a crisis for the new Government. Dr. Neves died on
April 21 and Vice-President Jose Sarney became President in his stead, with
the task of pursuing the objectives stated by Dr. Neves and eliciting broad
popular support. The new Government has indicated that its primary
economic goal will be to restore the country's economic growth in order to
expand employment opportunities, improve the remuneration of the labor
force, and bring about a more equitable distribution of income. It is
recognized that for this growth to be solidly based, it is necessary to
control inflation, put the finances of the public sector on a sound
footing, and overcome constraints on growth imposed by the balance of
payments.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances.  Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.3
billion to US$54.9 billion. The efforts to redress the external imbalance
after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases
in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates
increased, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4
billion, or 5.0% of GDP. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline in GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth.  Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems among some major trading partners, and regional events leading to
the debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified
adjustment program. In February 1983 the IMF pledged financial assistance
of the order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and through the
Extended Fund Facility for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loans due in 1983, and other measures of
financial support, which were later extended into 1984.



7.        The primary objective of the program was the reduction of the
current account deficit and external borrowirg requirements. The cruzeiro
was devalued by 30% in February 1983 and subsequently adjusted in line with
domestic inflation, import restrictions were increased, and tight fiscal
and monetary restraints were imposed. Imports fell by 21Z in 1983, and
exports increased by 8.5% in spite of adverse trading circumstances,
resulting in a trade surplus of US$6.5 billion and a reduction in the
current account deficit from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about
5% of GDP) to US$6.2 billion.  In 1984, these trends continued, with the
complete elimination of the current account deficit in the balance of
payments. Accordingly, in a period of two years Brazil achieved an
external adjustment equivalent to over 5% of GDP. At the same time, the
major source of internal disequilibrium, the public sector deficit, was
also brought under better control. Central Bank figures show that the
consolidated operational public sector deficit was reduced from 6.6Z of GDP
in 1982 to 2.5% in 1983; a small surplus was planned for 1984 but recent
information indicates that a significant deficit remains. Steps were taken
to eliminate product and interest rate subsidies, adjust relative prices
for fuel and other products, reduce public expenditures and increase
revenues. Thus, although inflation has remained high, .substantial progress
was made towards establishing a new basis for growth. In particular,
strong export expansion during 1984 resulted in earnings in excess of US$27
billion and a trade surplus amounting to over US$13 billion.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments has nevertheless been
high. Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by shortages
in the supply of tradable goods, increases in administered prices, very
high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. GDP fell by
3.2Z in 1983, with the g;e-atest reductions concentrated in the industrial
and commercial sectors.  On that basis, per capita GDP declined by over 12%
during 1981-83. For that period industrial employment fell by over 20%,
with the largest reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the
main industrial centers.
9.       Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5%, or over 2% per capita. The increase in manufacturing
exports has led an incipient industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remains
relatively small. Overall expansion is still inhibited by depressed
domestic market conditions, however, which can be expected to continue
until there is some relaxation in the present austere demand management
policies. In particular, recovery is not likely to become generalized
until real interest rates fall from their present levels of 30-40%.
Economic Outlook
10.      The short-term economic outlook for Brazil appears somewhat more
encouraging than that of a year ago, although the Government faces a
difficult initial period of political adjustment to the loss of President
Tancredo Neves. The balance-of-payments si tuation is much stronger, and
some signs of recovery from the domestic recession are apparent. In



-4-
addition, the international economic situation appears more encouraging,
with at least a temporary easing of interest rates and oil prices.2/
11.       The immediate prospects for the balance of payments appear
encouraging, following the trade surplus of over US$13 billion obtained in
1984. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much
of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US
dollars, total exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the
comparable increase for industrial exports was 37%. Reflecting the
favorable trade performance, Brazil's international reserve position also
improved markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7 billion.
Exports in the first quarter of 1985 were 12% lower than in the same period
of 1984. Reasons for chis poorer export performance appear to include
slower growth in the United States, some appreciation of the cruzeiro
against currencies other than the US dollar, the phasing out of a fiscal
subsidy for manufactured exports, the removal of credit incentives for
exports, a severe shortage of export credit, and the imposition of tighter
import restrictions in several partner countries. Nevertheless, the
Government is aware of the problem and is taking remedial measures in those
areas in which it can act. These measures include the earmarking of some
credit resources for export production and a modification in the exchange
rate rules, which, should the monthly inflation rates continue to fall (as
in April), will result in an effective depreciation of the currency.
Similarly, the recent decline of the value of the US dollar vis-a-vis
European currencies should also strengthen Brazilian international
competitiveness. Accordingly, the overall export outlook remains, on the
whole, positive.
12.       Inflation remains a critical issue, but reducing it under the
current system of indexation and in the context of very resilient
inflationary expectations is proving to be exceedingly difficult.
Indexation, while making it difficult to reduce inflation, does of course
mitigate some of the adverse economic and social effects commonly
associated with inflation. A major challenge for the new Government will
be to restore confidence and, in doing so, dampen inflationary
expectations. To accomplish this, a comprehensive and consistent
medium-term strategy and a clearly stated and credible economic program
will be essential.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are generally
encouraging, assuming the continuation of the recovery now becoming
evident. This recovery depends, however, both upon the economic policies
2/ Over three quarters of Brazil's external debt carries variable interest
rates, or is short-term, so that a change of 1% in average interest
rates means a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about US$750 million.
Similarly, a dollar per barrel change in average annual oil prices has
an impact of up to US$300 million on the trade balance.



pursued by the Government and a number of external economic factors outside
the control of Brazilian policy-mkers. The levels of international
interest rates and of oil prices, continued recovery in the OECD, the
avoidance of additional trade barriers for Brazil's exports, and the
availability of modest net amounts of external financing, are all critical
for Brazil. At the same time, much will depend upon the conduct of
national economic policies by the incoming Government. The present
situation requires a comprehensive and integrated, medium-term, strategy
for structural adjustment and economic recovery. This strategy should
focus on further export promotion, greater productive efficiency, an
improved allocation of economic resources, reduced inflation, increased
investment and savings, and a reduced reliance on external borrowing.
14.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions relating to the
international environment, and the projected domestic economic recovery,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. The
resource balance has turned positive with the large trade surpluses of 1991
and 1984. The current account deficit, which amounted to US$6.2 billion in
1983 (equal to about 3X of GDP), turned into a small surplus in 1984.
Total medium- and long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at
an annual rate of 4.3X from 1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of
international inflation. The projections assume that gross disbursements,
including amounts to be rescheduled, would rise from US$14.8 billion in
1985 to about US$20 billion in 1990, in current prices, and amortization
from US$11 billion to about US$15 billion in the same period, with net
disbursements averaging approximately US$4.5billion annually. For private
M&LT debt, the projections are consistent with reductions of total real
commercial bank exposure in Brazil and a reduced share of Brazilian loans
in total commercial bank lending portfolios. Nevertheless, continued new
lending will be required for the foreseeable future.
15.       Creditworthiness indicators for Brazil would improve
substantially over the projection period. The total debt service ratio is
projected to fall from 72% in 1982 to about 46% in 1990. In the short run,
debt service payments would reach levels threatening the present recovery,
without the debt rescheduling for which negotiations, initiated by the
previous Government, have still to be completed. The projections thus
assume rescheduling agreements which will minimize repayments of existing
principal at least in the earlier years. The total external debt as a
multiple of total goods and non-factor service exports is projected to
decline continually, after having reached a high of 3.4 in 1982. By 1990
the ratio is projected to have fallen to close to 2.0.
16.       One striking feature of the balance-of-payments projections is
the magnitude of the projected net financial medium- and long-term resource
transfers (excess of interest over net new borrowing) from Brazil to its
creditors. This transfer would amount to over US$7 billion in 1985. The
net resource transfer over the entire projection period would average 2% of
GDP annually, although declining. Even with these transfers, however,
economic growth of a reasonable magnitude could occur.



-6-
17.       Base case projections, with the component sectors of GDP
projected on the basis of assumed economic policies and individual sectoral
prospects, show a gradual recovery from 1985 on, with GDP growth increasing
from a projected 4% in 1985 to over 7% in 1990. Throughout the 1984-90
period an average increase in real per capita consumption of near 3.5X
annually is projected. Even so, it would not be until 1988 that the 1980
level of per capita income would be restored.
18.       Any projection results must be viewed cautiously because of the
uncertainties regarding future international market conditions.
Nevertheless, some conclusions may be drawn. First, the success of
Brazilian development strategy over the foreseeable future will depend upon
the country's success in expanding exports. Second, given the seriousness
of the external constraints, Brazil's economic growth over the period
1984-90 will be more modest than during the 1970s. Third, to sustain that
more modest rate of growth will require both a continued net inflow of
external financing, at least in nominal terms, and a greatly improved
savings effort from the domestic economy. Finally, despite the clear
difficulties and risks inherent in the current situation, Brazil has the
economic strength, with the support of its lenders, to work its way out of
the present liquidity situation and resume a satisfactory rate of growth
while continuing to meet its international obligations. Thus, Brazil
should remain creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
magnitudes indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
19.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government over the past decade has made substantial
efforts to relieve poverty. The educational system has been rapidly
expanded, giving rise to increased enrollment rates and reduced
illiteracy. Social security programs have been strengthened and extended
to rural areas, and upgrading and expanding health services for the poor
have received much government attention. Increased government efforts have
also been directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the
improved provision of water and sewerage services. In part as a reflection
of these and other programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary
estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standa.i
and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real
income gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains,
as reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade.
20.       Given the impact of present economic difficulties on output and
employment, however, some of these gains may have been seriously eroded in
the present crisis. Slow growth in employment opportunities, at the rates
of GDP growth currently postulated for the 1980s, emerges as a potentially
serious problem. Large unemployment and underemployment would persist well
after the recession, unless growth can be accelerated and/or strategies
favoring more labor-intensive activities or technologies pursued.



-7-
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1985 the Bank had made 136 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,866.7 million (net of cancellations), of which 64 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, and US$1,405.0 million in FY84. The undisbursed
amount as of March 31, 1985 was US$3,560.3 million. Annex II contains a
sumnmry statement of Bank loans and IFC investments
22.       Over the FY77-83 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$1,457 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. They were US$52.7 million for
a market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million
for an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural
credit and export development project, US$65.2 million for the third phase
of the Northwest region development program, US$222.8 million for a rural
electrification project, US$250.6 million for a power distribution project,
US$20.0 million for a technician training project, US$40.0 million for an
urban basic education project in the North-Centerwest regions, US$210
million for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the federal highway
network, US$55.5 million for basic health care in the State of Sao Paulo
and US$2.0 million for national health studies. In addition, a total of
US$30.5 million of supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and
rural development projects was approved in FY84. Five loans totalling
US$511.0 million have been approved so far for Brazil in FY85. They were a
US$300.0 million loan for a third development banking project, a US$72.0
million loan for a science and technology project, two loans totalling
US$122.7 million for rural development projects in the Northeast of
Brazil, and US$16.3 million for a technical assistance and pilot rural
water supply and sanitation project. Work is advanced for a railways
project, for a power transmission project, and for a land titling project
in the Northeast.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$81 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.3% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 3.5%.
24.       As of March 31, 1985, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,030.41 million, of which US$676.92 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$353.49 million, US$270.18 million
represent loans and US$83.31 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1985 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.



26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing conistraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983, are
being reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing
under the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of
project costs of recently approved projects in social sectors, supplemental
financing amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and
rural development projects, and amending existing loans where warranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursemenc rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Program. Also, greater use is being made of Project
Special Accounts into which Bank funds are depos'ted in advance in order to
reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's share of project
costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES aimed at
strengthening industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Seccor loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up loans designed to
support the next steps in this adjustment process are under preparation.
Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and
import substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing Government subsidies to the energy sector. In the electric power
sector, wich is presently in a financial crisis, the Bank's role will be to
assist the Government and sector authorities in their efforts to improve
the financial condition of the sector through realistic investment and
financial policies. In 1984, the Bank assisted the sector authorities in
preparing a Sector Development Plan for 1984 to 1988 (para. 44). The
Sectoral Plan which will be updated and reviewed by the Bank annually
serves as a basis for the proposed project as well as for other future Bank
operations in the electric power sector.
29.       A thi:d lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural



- 9 -
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and three loans for urban development in two metropolitan
areas, in medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor.  Following up on a nutrition research and development
project and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Several projects for rural and
urban development, for health and for rural water supply and sanitation,
directed to the needs of the lowest income groups in the Northeast are
under preparation.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have
been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten cofinancing
operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with
private financial institutions. Cofinancing opportunities are rather
limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of commercial
bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the framework of
the debt rescheduling package. Cofinancing could become more important in
the near future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bank
participation in a syndi ated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new cofinancing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil
with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.
PART III. THE SECTOR
Energy Resources
31.         Brazil's energy resources comprise a vast hydropotential, as
well as oil shale, coal, nuclear fuels and biomass. Proven oil and gas
reserves are limited. Of the indigenous energy resources only hydro and
biomass currently play a significant role in the country's energy supply
mix, and though domestic oil production has increased significantly in the
last three years, in 1983 it covered only about 35% of the market
requirements. The potential for hydroelectric development is estimated at
about Z13,000 MW of which about 50,000 MW are in use or under construction.



- 10 -
32.         Presently, the Government is making important efforts to increase
domestic oil production and to substitute oil with domestic alcohol, natural
gas, coal and other sources of energy. Started in 1975, production of
alcohol for use as fuel in internal combustion engines amounted in 1984 to 9
billion liters equivalent to 120,000 barrels of oil per day. The current
goal is to produce by 1993 about 20 billion liters of alcohol equivalent to
256,000 barrels of oil per day.  In 1983, coal production was 5.2 million
tons, equivalent to 29,000 barrels of oil per day or about 4% of the energy
supply. The Government expects that in 1993 coal production will be 21.8
million tons, equivalent to 104,000 barrels of oil per day, about 8% of the
total energy supply. Brazil is also developing a nuclear generating capacity
which should have an important role in electricity generation beyond the year
2010, when most of the economically exploitable hydro resources would be
utilized. Efforts are also being made for a more intensive utilization of
other domestic energy resources, including burning wood and sugarcane bagasse
for electricity generation in isolated areas.
33.         In 1983, Brazil's gross energy consumption was 152 million tons
of oil equivalent (t.o.e.), or 1.2 t.o.e. per head of population and is
expected to grow at about 5.8% per annum through 1986, reaching about 1.33
t.o.e. per capitz in 1986. Oil products, about 61% of them imported,
accounted for 35% of energy consumption and hydroelectricity for 29%; the
remaining 36% was met mainly by coal, wood products, and bagasse.
National Energy Policy
34.       National energy policy has the following main objectives:
(a) Conservation and rational use of energy to encourage maximum
efficiency in the utilization of energy resources;
(b) substitution of imported energy sources by domestic ones,
especially "renewables", wherever technically and economically
feasible, to reduce dependence on imported petroleum and coal;
and
(c) exploitation of existing domestic energy resources and
intensification of search for new sources.
While (b) and (c) are desirable objectives, it is important for Brazil to
scrutinize further development of domestic energy sources carefully. Given
the country's domestic and external resource constraints and the prospects of
relatively stable real oil prices in the next decade, only cost-effective
substitutes which require relatively modest investments should be
undertaken.  Controlling energy consumption is also important.  The
Government could be using pricing more aggressively to promote conservation.
While the domestic price of gasoline and diesel are substantially higher than
the international price, LPG, fuel oil, and naphtha do not cover c.i.f.
international prices plus local distribution costs.  Incentives for alcohol
use are still substantial; the retail alcohol price is 35% lower than the
gasoline price, although the energy differential between the two is closer to
20-25%. And, as discussed later on in this report, electric power rates are
substantially below the long-run marginal cost of production. Finally, as
long as the Government continues to regulate the energy sector, more
coordination in the development and use of the major fuels is needed in



- 11 -
order to reduce over-expansion of capacity.  The issues related to power are
being dealt with through this and other Bank loans given to the sector, while
loans for alcohol and transportation address issues related to alcohol and
other fuels.
The Electric Power Sector
35.       The electric power sector is making an important contribution in
achieving the national energy policy goals listed above.  Pricing of
electricity will be very important in encouraging conservation and promoting
efficient resource allocation. In this respect, progress has been made
through marginal cost tariff studies carried out under loans 1300-BR, 1824-BR
and 1939-BR. The results of these studies will be put into effect over
several years in the framework of currently enacted legislation and should
result in more efficient use of installed capacity (para. 54). Plans for
generating plants to be built in the remainder of this century give emphasis
to the use of indigenous primary energy resources (hydropower, coal and
uranium). As 96% of electricity generated in the existing interconnected
systems is hydro; there is little room for displacing oil in power
generation. However, to make full use of the existing hydro generation
capacity, gradual substitution of electricity for oil products in industry is
being encouraged through application of low rates for interruptible and
off-peak electricity services.
Organization
36.       The institutional development of the Brazilian power sector over
the last 50 years has been characterized by progressive nationalization and
growing centralization, resulting in the consolidation of a few large and
hundreds of small utilities into a relatively compact structure of state and
federally-owned utilities. The power sector is under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MNE) created in 1960. Since then the aim has
been towards increasing sector efficiency and coordination with the
establishment of Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS) in 1962,
(paras. 41 through 43) and the strengthening of the Departamento Nacional de
Aguas e Energia Eletrica (DNAEE), within MME, as the regulatory agency for
the sector.
37.       Though complex, and one of the largest in the world, the
electric power sector is well organized and past policies have generally been
well formulated and applied. Decree 60,824 of June 7, 1967 established the
current sector organization under which DNAEE grants licenses for generating
plants, assigns concessions, approves expansion plans and sets tariffs with
the approval by the Secretariat of Planning. ELETROBRAS, as a holding
company for the sector, administers public funds allocated to the sector and
coordinates external borrowings. ELETROBRAS also analyzes expansion plans
for major generating and transmission facilities and coordinates and
supervises the public power system.
38.       Four ELETROBRAS' subsidiaries (FURNAS, CHESF, ELETROSUL and
ELETRONORTE) are responsible primarily for regional generation and
high-voltage transmission systems. They act as bulk suppliers to state and
municipal utility companies which generally are responsible for
sub-transmission and electricity distribution. In addition to the four
regional subsidiaries, ELETROBRAS also owns ESCELSA (Espirito Santo Centrais



- 12 -
Eletricas), the power distributor for the State of Espirito Santo in the
Southeast, and LIGHT - Servicos de Eletricidade S.A., servicing the
metropolitan area of Rio de Janeiro. ELETROBRAS also holds the Government's
50% interest in the Itaipu Binacional, the binational agency set up in April
1973 by the governments of Brazil and Paraguay to build jointly the 12,600 MW
Itaipu hydroelectric facility on the Parana river.
39.       Since 1967 Government policy has been to consolidate public
electricity service in the individual states into single state-owned
utilities primarily responsible for distribution activities, although some of
them have also generation and transmission activities. This policy has
resulted in the absorption by the major state-owned companies of many
municipal and privately owned utilities and in the gradual transfer of
ELETROBRAS' ownership in distribution utilities to the state-owned
utilities. The major state-owned utilities are: Companhia Energetica de Sao
Paulo (CESP); Eletricidade de Sao Paulo S.A. (ELETROPAULO); Companhia
Energetica de Minas Gerais (CEMIG); Companhia Paranaense de Energia (COPEL);
Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica (CEEE) - Rio Grande do Sul; Companhia
Paulista de Forca e Luz (CPFL); Ceutrais Eletricas de Santa Catarina
(CELESC); Companhia de Eletricidade da Bahia (COELBA); Companhia de
Eletricidade de Pernambuco (CELPE), and Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara
(COELCE). All these utilities have been borrowers or beneficiaries under
past Bank loans. Despite this process of consolidation, the sector still
comprises 600 concessionaires, of which 25 are state companies and the rest
small municipal and private companies.
Growth of Demand
40.       In 1983, national average production of electricity was about 1,000
kWh per capita; the industrial sector used 51%, and the residential sector
22%. Due to the high industrial and urban concentration in the states of Sao
Paulo and Rio de Janeiro the geographical distribution of demand is uneven.
Though the most developed states have promoted rural electrification, access
to electricity in rural areas for the whole country is still low (about
20%). During the period of 1970 to 1980 electricity consumption rose at an
average annual growth rate of 13%, which is high when compared with other
countries. Though the annual increase in electricity consumption in the last
three years has been lower than the previous decade's, (3% in 1981; 6% in
1982; and 8% in 1983) they are still high when compared with other LDC
countries. Projections of electricity consumption, recently prepared by
ELETROBRAS, show that despite the difficult economic situation faced by the
country, demand was expected to grow 11% p.a. in 1984 and at a moderate rate
of about 8% p.a. in the period 1985-1998, which would require a certain
degree of energy management through pricing. The Government's intention
now is to increase tariffs over time to reflect long-run mLrginal costs.
Dur ag negotiations, the Government agreed to prepare and agree with the Bank
during 1985 on a plan of action to implement by 1989 the recommendations of a
long-run marginal cost study financed by the Bank (Loan 1939-BR) (para. 54).
System Expansion Planning
41.       ELETROBRAS has the primary responsibility for the coordination of
planning in the power sector and for the preparation of system generation and
transmission expansion plans. Distribution planning is the responsibility of
each individual utility company but a higher degree of participation of



- 13 -
ELETROBRAS in the global assessment of the adequacy of the level of
investments of the individual utilities is needed, to ensure a consistent
approach. During negotiations, ELETROBRAS agreed to implement by December
31, 1987, a medium term program satisfactory to the Bank, designed to
strengthen ELETROBRAS' role in the sector distribution planning and in the
provision of technical assistance in power distribution planning to less
developed electric power sector utilities (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
42.       ELETROBRAS is subject to the supervision of DNAEE in the
preparation of the plans for the sector, which are subject to the formal
approval of MME. However, in practice, DNAEE tends to concentrate on tariff
planning and on sector budgeting, which provides financial projections for
the ensuing three years. Since 1981 the responsibility for approving the
investment programs and tariff levels of public utilities has been exercised
by the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN). The compositioa of Brazil's current
generation expansion program for the 1980's was based, by and large, on
ELETROBRAS' demand forecasts prepared in the 1970s which are now seen to have
been too optimistic and to have assumed an availability of financial
resources which failed to materialize fully. This program resulted in
commitments for large generating plants (Itaipu, Tucurui and the nuclear
generating program) which are now nearing completion but which caused a
significant financial burden to the sector.
43.       ELETROBRAS has developed a set of mathematical planning models and
programs, specially suited to the size and complexity of the Brazilian power
sector, for preparing a comprehensive Master Development Plan every three or
four years. The latest generation and transmission development plan to meet
demand through the year 2000 (Plano 2000) was prepared in 1982. Plano 2000
is the result of a comprehensive planning process which includes evaluation
of energy resources and inter and intra sectoral coordination. The country's
major energy problem-its heavy dependence on oil imports-is reflected in
sector planning: Plano 2000 taps only indigenous resources-hydro, uranium
and coal-for expanding the generation system. A complete revision of Plano
2000 is scheduled for 1986; however, partial revisions are made annually to
adjust the expansion program to take into account changes in demand, peak
reduction through application of time-of-day tariffs, the effect of energy
substitution program, the progress of projects under construction, and
financial considerations.
The Power Sector Development Plan
44.       On the basis of the methodology of the Plan 2000 and in order to
address more effectively the urgent financial needs of the sector in the
medium term, ELETROBRAS with support from the federal and state utilities, in
consultation with SEPLAN, and with input from the Bank, prepared in 1984 a
general Power Sector Development Plan for the 1984 to 1988 period. This plan
serves as the basis for the proposed project and for other Bank operations in
the sector presently under consideration. For the preparation of the
Development Plan it was agreed that:
(i) the demand scenario would be based upon moderate targets on
expanding electricity coverage to the population; realistic
assumptions in relation to the possibility of implementing large
industrial projects; and, modest increases in electricity
consumption due to energy substitution;



- 14 -
(ii) the expansion plan would consider the minimum investments required
to provide electricity to the final user with levels of reliability
which, even though lower than the reliability levels traditionally
used in the sector for planning purposes, are still considered
acceptable;
(iii) investments in generation would be directed toward completing
ongoing construction and starting additional works to provide
energy needed after 1990;
(iv) investments in transmission would be directed toward completing
transmission networks required for transfering the energy generated
by projects nearing completion and constructing high priority
lines;
(v) investments in distribution would include increases in the level of
investment over those in the last few years which are considered
low in relation to the needs; and
(vi) the Government would take or allow to be taken measures to
strengthen the financial condition of the sector so that it may be
in a position to carry out the investment program.
45.       Sector investment needs in the 1984-1988 period would be about
US$4.5 billion per year. This level of investment is low considering that it
is equal in nominal terms to the average sector investment realized in the
period 1979-1983, when the demand was considerably lower. However, it is
reasonable because of the heavy investment in generation made in the past and
the current scarcity of resources.
46.       The proposed project has been identified as a priority investment
in the 1984-88 Development Plan. It is essential for distributing the energy
generated by projects nearing completion to the major load centers. Bank
financing for this project would support the financial rehabilitation of
the power sector by monitoring through annual reviews the sectoral investment
program and the measures that would be taken by the Government for this
purpose (para. 54).
Sector Finances
47.       The restructuring of the organization of the sector in the early
1960 's, with ELETROBRAS as the federally-owned holding company, ELETROBRAS'
subsidiaries as entities primarily responsible for regional generation and
transmission, and state utilities as entities primarily responsible for
distribution, was part of a general plan to make the power sector an
important contributing factor to Brazil's economic development. The
corresponding policies included the setting of realistic tariff levels and
adequate equity contributions in face of an ambitious investment program
which would satisfy the national electricity requirements.
48.       As a result of these tariff policies, the consumer based fund
generation and its contribution to the growing investment program increased
steadily through the mid-1970's, at which time the sector reached a financial
soundness. In 1973, the net (after debt service) consumer based fund
generation had a share of 56% in the sector's funding mix whereas borrowings



- 15 -
had a share of only 30%; the rest being equity contributions. Coincidentally
with such sector financial soundness the sector initiated an even more
ambitious investment program which included three major generating schemes:
the Itaipu (12,600 MW) and Tucurui (7,600 MW) hydroelectric projects, and the
nuclear program. The heavy investment program in non-oil-fueled generating
schemes became more justifiable because of the oil crisis and the
proportionately large increases in oil prices. The oil crisis of the mid
1970's, however, also created a different set of financial conditions for the
Brazilian power sector as inflation affected substantially the cost of the
investment program and the Government's fight against inflation resulted in a
deterioration of real tariff levels and of the consumer-based contribution to
the investment program. As a consequence, the sector became increasingly
dependent on borrowings.
49.       The increasing dependency on borrowings, compounded by increasingly
harder lending terms, created a heavy debt service burden for sector finances
in the late 1970's and early 1980's. In 1983, the sector's debt service was,
for the first time, greater than the consumer based fund generation, thus
resulting in a negative self-finance ratio for the sector investment program.
50.       After a review of sector 'inances with the Bank, the Federal
Government agreed in September 1981, to increase power rates in real terms by
at least 3% in 1982 and by at least 5% in 1983 and thereafter, until the
annual 10% rate of return for the power sector as a whole has been
attained--which is required by Brazilian law -and shortfalls occurring since
1978 have been recovered. However, because of slippage in the dates of rate
increases in 1982, and slow growth in demand, sector revenues had not
expanded as expected. Consequently, in December 1983 the Government and the
Bank agreed on a series of measures aimed at improving the financial
situation of the sector. Such measures include a commitment from the
Government that the electric power sector will reach a 10% financial rate of
return in 1989, to be achieved by improving the rate of return by one point
each year. It is to be achieved through tariff increases and other measures
aimed at reducing operating costs. To achieve the agreed rate of return in
1984 and 1985 the Government agreed to increase tariffs by 5% in real terms
each year.  Beyond 1985, the Government agreed to review with the Bank by
January 1986, the financial performance of the power sector and to agree on a
program of tariff increases and other measures required to achieve the agreed
rates of return targets in future years. Failure to achieve the agreed rates
of return and to reach agreement on the program of tariff increases for 1986
and thereafter by January 15, 1986, shall entitle the Bank to suspend
disbursements under all loans to the power sector in Brazil. The tariff
increases are to be achieved through a series of quarterly tariff
adjustments. The increases are to be made effective no later than February
1, May 1, August 1, and November 1, each year. The increases of February 1
and May 1 are to include one-half each of the real increase that has been
agreed for the year. So far the Government has complied with the 1983
agreement. Tariff-increases have been introduced on the dates agreed with
the Bank. In fact in 1985, the Government has already increased tariffs by
5% in real terms. The increases were introduced in February and March
instead of February and May as provided by the agreement with the Bank.
Also, as provided in the 1983 agreement, the sector reached the agreed 5%
rate of return in 1984. Although the success of the sector's financial
rehabilitation depends basically on increasing the consumer based fund
generation, two other conditions are quite important to ensure such success:



- 16 -
(i)  rationalization of the sector investment program through a greater
emphasis on transmission/distribution development in order to
balance the heavy generation investments made in the past, with no
growth in investments until 1988; and
(ii)  reduction in the high debt pressure on sector finances through an
improvement in the sector's debt profile and a decreasing reliance
on borrowings as a source of financing.
51.       As provided by the 1983 agreement, the Brazilian Government and the
Bank will hold a meeting in January 1986, to agree on the measures that are
necessary to achieve the annual rate of return targets beyond 1985. As
indicated above, such measures will most likely include actions to increase
the level and to modify the structure of electricity tariffs. The average
electricity price level in Brazil is still low, both on financial and
economic grounds, and needs to be increased to improve the sector's finances
BRAZIL - POWER SECTOR
Investment Program and Financing Plan Summary
(in billions of December 1984 US$)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1984-88    %
Requirement of Funds
Construction program    3.1    4.2    3.9    4.0    4.2      19.4    78.6
Loans to Itaipu         0.5    0.5    0.6    0.7    0.6       2.9    11.7
Sub-total            3.6    4.7    4.5    4.7    4.8      22.3    90.3
Increase in working
capital                1.2    0.2    0.3    0.4    0.3       2.4      9.7
Total requirements   4.8    4.9    4.8    5.1    5.1      24.7   100.0
Sources of Funds
Gross consumer-based
generation             3.5    4.2    5.3    6.7    7.7      27.4   111.0
Debt service and
dividend payments     (4.3)  (3.6)  (4.4)  (4.8)  (5.0)   (22.2)  (89.6)
Net consumer-based
generation            (0.8)   0.6    0.9    1.9    2.7       5.2    21.4
Equity contributions      1.6    0.9    0.3    0.2    0.2      3.2    13.0
Borrowings               4.0    3.4    3.6    3.0    2.2      16.2    65.6
Total sources        4.8    4.9    4.8    5.1    5.1      24.7   100.0



- 17 -
and the country's internal savings. The tariff structure has been disrupted
in the last few years through a series of special tariffs, basically for oil
substitution and export promotion, which are a fraction of the already low
normal industrial tariffs. Under these conditions, neither the tariff level
nor the tariff structure are conducive to electricity conservation. As a
result of this tariff scheme, during the last few years, electricity
consumption grew at fairly high rates despite a negative or low rate of
growth in the country's economy. Ia line with its policy for energy
conservation and its intention to rehabilitate the finances of the sector,
the Government's strategy now is to increase tariffs over a reasonable period
of time to be in line with long-run marginal costs (para. 54).
52.       Under the 1984-88 Sectoral Development plan, the Government with
assistance from the Bank, prepared during 1984 a financial plan to enable the
sector to finance the 1984-88 investment program and to rehabilitate the
financial condition of the -ector.
53.       This plan shows that the financial rehabilitation of the power
sector will be attained during the projection period (1984-1988) as the
deteriorating trend in sector finances will be reversed. Even though the
level of sector finances is not expected to be satisfactory during the first
two years of the projection period, an improvement in the sector's funding
mix will start during these years as the consumer-based contribution will
increase steadily whereas the reliance on borrowings will decrease and the
sector is expected to reach an adequate level of financial soundness before
the end of the projection period.
54.       The main assumptions on which the sector's financial rehabilitation
is based under the 1984-88 Sectoral Development Plan, and the corresponding
agreements that were reached with the Government during negotiations are
shown below:
(a)  The Federal Investment Program and Financial Plan (Paras. 44, 45
and 46): Prior to loan negotiations the Government informed the
Bank of its intentions to carry out the 1984-1988 investment
program and financial plan prepared by ELETROBRAS and found to be
acceptable by the Bank. The Government is now reviewing the Plan
to ensure that it is in line with the national economic program.
It has informed the Bank that by July 31, 1985 it will send to the
Bank an approved 1984-1988 Investment Program and Financial Plan.
Consequently, the following agreements were reached with the
Government during negotiations:
(i)    as a condition of loan effectiveness the Government will
presen: to the Bank its 1984-1988 investment program and
financial plan, formally approved by the Government and
satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 1.01 (i) and 8.01 (e) of
the draft Loan Agreement);
(ii)    the Government will submit to the Bank by November 30 of
each year an updated five-year investment program and
financial plan, both to be satisfactory to the Bank
(Sections 3.01(e) of the draft Guarantee Agreement);



- 18 -
(iii)    the Government will carry out the five-year investment
program in accordance with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices and
sbaU provide or cause to be provided to the sector the
funds and other resources required in accordance with the
provisions in the five-year financial plan (Section 3.01(c)
of the draft Guarantee Agreement); and
(iv)    the Goverment will take all actions expected to enable the
electric power sector companies to carry out a program
satisfactory to the Bank aimed at reducing over a resonable
period, the sector's reliance on borrowings (Section 3.02 of
the draft Guarantee Agreement).
(b)  Lon3 Run Marginal Cost Study:  During negotiations the Government
agreed to prepare, and agree with the Bank during 1985, a plan of
action to complete implementation by December 1989 of the
recommendations of the long-run marginal cost study that is being
financed by the Bank (Loan 1939-BR) (Section 3.03 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
(c)  Itaipu Tariffs:  During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Government that if tariffs for bulk sale of electricity
generated at Itaipu were to exceed the levels now charged by
Brazilian power suppliers in the South, Southeast and Central-
Western regions of Brazil, the Federal Government will promptly
take measures required to offset cost increases arising from high
Itaipu tariffs and to ensure that the rates of return agreed with
the Bank are met (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Financial Information and Financial Planning System
55.       The procedures used to consolidate the financial information for
the sector as a whole are not adequate. While the ELETROBRAS Group issues
yearly consolidated financial statements for its subsidiaries, the sector's
historic financial information originates from different sources (several
departments of ELETROBRAS or DNAEE). This financial information is prepared
under different criteria; the final versions of each statement are completed
at different times, and the coverage is not always comprehensive for all the
utilities in the sector. The present procedures need substantial improvement
to allow a better analysis of sector finances.
56.       Similarly, the financial planning system of the Brazilian power
sector has not yet been able to consolidate in a timely fashion the financial
projections of the utilities to arrive at sector aggregates. Therefore,
projections used for sector analysis do not contain details of each utility's
finances and are prepared using a computer model which is not compatible with
the computer models used for financial projections by the individual
utilities. The process is slow as several months are needed to obtain
projections of individual utilities, consistent with the sector projections.
In the case of Brazil such slowness is critical as conditions change rapidly
and frequently, especially because of high inflation. Thus the sector's
financial planning system should be improved to allow more reliable and
timely analyses of financial forecasts.



- 19 -
57.       During negotiations, ELETROBRAS agreed to carry out a study to
consolidate, in a timely and consistent fashion, the historical financial
information and financial planning systems for the power sector, with a view
to, inter alia, avoiding duplication of systems. This study would be
completed by December 31, 1986 and its conclusions would be implemented
taking into account the Bank's comments in accordance with a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
58.       Since 1949, the Bank's loans to the Brazilian power sector  have
amounted to about US$2.4 billion. Most of the loans have been for
hydroelectric plants and associated transmission facilities in the
Southeastern and Southern regions, but the most recent loans have been mainly
for transmission and distribution projects, and included beneficiaries
outside these two regions. The Bank's lending strategy in the sector has
been, besides financing high priority projects, to promote rational tariff
policies, monitor sector finances and keep continuous dialogue on measures
required for their progressive improvement, act as catalyst for the
mobilization of funding from other sources, and help strengthen sector
coordination and planning- Given the country and the sector's present
financial crisis, the Bank's role in the future would be to assist the
Government and sector authorities in their efforts to improve the financial
condition of the sector through realistic investment and financial policies.
The Bank began to assist the Government's efforts to improve the financial
situation of the sector with the tariff agreement of September 1981,
supplemented with the rate of remuneration agreement of November 1983 (para
50). Since then, sector authorities and the Bank collaborated in preparing
the 1984-88 sector Development Plan which will be the general framework for
future Bank sector operations. Because the sector's present financial
constraints are so stringent the Bank would further assist the sector by
financing interest on the Bank loan during the first four and one half years
of the construction period of this project. Nine project performance audit
reports3  have been distributed to the Executive Directors. These reports
conclude that, despite construction-delays, cost overruns in some cases, and
the beginning of a deteriorating financial trend in the late 1970s Bank
financing had been substantially successful. In general, such reports
emphasized the useful role played by the Bank in the Brazilian Power Sector.
3/ SecM 75-646 of September 4, 1975; SecM 77-532 of June 28, 1977;
SecH 78- 34 of January 16, 1978; SecM 79- 82 of February 12, 1979;
SecM 79-756 of October 23, 1979; SecM 79-757 of October 23, 1979;
SecM 79-905 of December 29, 1979; SecM 81-532 of June 22, 1981; and
SecM 84-632 of July 9, 1984.



- 20 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
59.       The project is a priority project within the National Power
Rehabilitation Plan which has been analysed and approved by the Bank. It was
prepared by ELETROPAULO, CPFL, LIGHT and ELETROBRAS and it was appraised in
January 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1985.
Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1985. The Brazilian Delegation
was led by Mr. Carlos Roberto Cristalli, Coordinator of the World Bank
Lending Program in the Secretariat of Planning. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Southeast Power Distribution Project' (No. 5578a-BR) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project
information is shown in Annex III.
Project Objective
60.       The proposed project would support the expansion of the power
distribution systems in the most industrialized areas of Brazil, the states
of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. It would result in institutional
improvements of the beneficiaries and ELETROBRAS by strengthening their
planning capabilities to analyze and coordinate investments for power
distribution with investments in power generation and transmission; and it
would support through studies the preparation of electric energy conservation
programs.
Project Description
61.       The project consists of portions of the 1986-89 investment programs
of the beneficiaries that are urgently needed to meet future demand in their
concession areas with minimum but acceptable levels of quality and
reliability.
Part A: ELETROPAULO
(a)  Construction of about 20,000 conductor-Kms of subtransmission and
distribution lines, and 6,800 MVA of distribution substations, and
installation of about 1,400 MVA of distribution transformers, and
related ancillary equipment.
(b) Implementation of training program of about 210 staff-months to
upgrade and develop staff skills in distribution planning,
operational aspects, and energy conservation. The training program
will be implemented during the 1986-1989 period.
Part B: LIGHT
(a) Construction of about 13,500 conductor-Kms of subtransmission and
distribution lines, and 830 MVA of distribution substations, and
connection of about 230,000 consumers, and related ancillary
equipment.



- 21 -
(b)  Implementation of training program of about 60 staff-months to
upgrade and develop staff skills in distribution planning,
operational aspects, and energy conservation. The training program
will be implemented during the 1986-1989 period.
Part C: CPFL
(a) Construction of about 5,300 circuit-Kms of subtransmission and
distribution lines, and 1,000 MVA of distribution substations, and
installation of about 142 MVA of distribution transformers, and
related ancillary equipment.
(b)  Implementation of training program of about 70 staff-months to
upgrade and develop staff skills in distribution planning,
operational aspects, and energy conservation. The training program
will be implemented during the 1986-1989 period.
Part D: ELETROBRAS
(a) Execution by ELETROBRAS with the assistance of consultants of an
electric energy conservation study required for the preparation of
sectoral energy conservation programs.
(b) Execution, with the assistance of consultants, of a distribution
planning study.
The Borrower and the Beneficiaries
62.       The Borrower would be ELETROBRAS and would onlend US$310 million of
the proceeds of the loan to ELETROPAULO, LIGHT and CPFL, on the same terms
and conditions as those of the Bank loan, to finance the projects of the
beneficiaries. ELETROBRAS will use the remaining US$2 million of the loan to
finance studies for distribution planning and studies for the preparation of
an electric energy conservation program. The execution by ELETROBRAS of at
least one subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms satisfactory to the Bank, will
be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 8.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The execution of satisfactory Loan Agreements with each of the
other beneficiaries will be a condition of disbursement for each of the other
sub-loans (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The beneficiaries
would bear the interest and foreign exchange risks of the loan. All four
entities are former Bank borrowers.
63.       The Federal Government holds 99.82 of ELETROBRAS shares and 100Z of
its voting stock. The President is appointed by the President of the
Republic. He chairs the meetings of the Administrative Board, which is also
comprised of five Directors and four Counselors elected by the shareholders.
One of the Counselors represents the private shareholders. The
Administrative Board sets policy, approves the annual budget, decides on



- 22 -
borrowings, and bears responsibility for investment, and its financing of
power utilities. The President and the five Directors, who head the five
directorates or ELETROBRAS, run the day-to-day operations and may make policy
recommendations to the Administrative Board. ELETROBRAS is not a shareholder
of ELETROPAllLO. It holds 82.22 of LIGHT's shares and 13.4% of CPFL's shares.
64.       ELETROPAIJLO is a power distribution company which serves a
relatively small but highly populated and industrialized area (the city of
Sao Paulo and its surrounding areas). The state of Sao Paulo holds 99.72 of
common stock in ELETROPAULO.  In 1984 it served about four million consumers
and sold about 36,000 GWh (24% of total electric energy sales in Brazil) of
which 552 was purchased by the industrial sector. It generates about 72 of
its energy requirements and purchases the rest from the interconnected system
of FIJRNAS and CESP. The rate of growth in electricity sales of ELETROPAIULO
slowed down sharply in the period 1981-1983, to about 2%, from previous rates
in the 1970s of about 92, mainly owing to the economic recession.
Electricity sales are expected to grow at a rate of about 9% p.a. during the
period 1984-1987 and drop to 5% in the 1987 to 1990 period, which is
realistic, assuming that energy conservation measures including real tariff
increases supported by the Power Sector Development Plan (para. 44) will be
taken.
65.       LIGHT is a power distribution company which serves a small but
highly populated and industrialized area in the state of Rio de Janeiro, with
about 2.2 million consumers, and total sales in 1984 of 16,600 GWh, of which
43% was purchased by the industrial sector. It generates about 22% of its
energy requirements and purchases the rest from the FURNAS system.
Electricity sales were growing at an average annual rate of 72 during the
last four years, and are projected at a rate of 5.5% p.a. for 1985-1990,
which is realistic assuming that energy conservation measures, including real
tariff increases, will be taken.
66.        CPFL is a power distribution company which serves a large area in
the state of Sao Paulo, consisting of well developed rural areas and some
relatively important industrial centers, with about 1.4 million consumers,
and total sales in 1984 of about 9,200 GWh, of which 49% was sold to the
industrial sector. Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo (CESP) is the major
stockholder of CPFL. CESP holds 73.3% of CPFL's shares and ELETROBRAS holds
13.42. It generates about 4% of its energy requirements and purchases the
rest from the FURNAS-CESP interconnected system. Electricity sales were
growing at an average annual rate of 7% during the last four years, and are
projected at a rate of 7% p.a. for 1985-1990, which is again realistic on the
assumptions mentioned in paras. 64 and 65 above.
67.       ELETROPAIJLO, LIGHT and CPFL are well-managed companies.  Their
organization is well structured and follows the general pattern of Brazilian
electric power utilities. The shareholders appoint the President and
Executive Directors to run the companies. All three beneficiaries have



- 23 -
efficient financial systems for budgeting, accounting, billing, and
collecting; well-defined policies for human resource management and
development, and adequate local training programs. Distribution planning of
the beneficiaries needs to be improved however, especially regarding the
definition of planning and design criteria and reliability of service
indicators. The required studies and training for this purpose will be
financed by the proposed loan.
68.       The circumstances in which the finances of the power sector have
developed since the late 1970's have also determined the financial
performance of the three beneficiaries. ELETROPAULO is experiencing some
debt problems originated by the scheme used by the state of Sao Paulo to
acquire ELETROPAIJLO's distribution system from LIGHT in 1981. It was a
substantially leveraged operation, with the state contributing only 10% of
the capital. This resulted in a heavy burden of dividend and debt service
payments for the company which it has not been able to cover with internally
generated resources. This critical condition coincided with financial
problems in the sector, and during 1983 and 1984 the company was unable to
make payments to the global guarantee fund--a mechanism used to assist in the
equalization of electricity charges throughout the country-"and the reversion
funds--which is used to finance electric utility expansion programs through
Brazil. This resulted in a cumulative debt to the Federal Government of
about US$80.0 million in late 1984, and fines fe; US$130.0 million have been
imposed for this debt to the company. A solution to this problem is being
discussed by the Federal and State Governments, ELETROBRAS and ELETROPAULO.
It has been agreed during negotiations that a satisfactory solution to this
problem will be addressed by the sectoral financial rehabilitation measures
included in the 1984-1988 Sectoral Financial Plan.
69.       In the next few years, the financial outlook of ELETROPAULO shows
an improving trend as the rates of remuneration increase by one percentage
point each year. In the period 1985-1990 the debt service coverage ratio is
projected to improve from 1.2 times in 1985 to 1.5 times in 1990; the self-
financiug ratio will go from 13.2% in 1985 to 45.3Z in 1990; and the debt/
equity ratio from 64/36 to 60/40.
70.       In the past, LIGHT's financial situation has been stronger than
that of ELETROPAULO. LIGHT was able to maintain rates of remuneration of
about two percentage points above th  average rate of the sector.  Its gross
internal funding has been more than sufficient to cover its net debt service,
and resulted in a debt service coverage ratio of about 1.5 times in the
1981-1984 period. The financial projections for 1985-1990 show further
improvement in LIGHT finances with debt service coverage ratio of about 2.3
times, self-financing ratio of 74%, and debt/equity ratio of 33/67.
71.       CPFL's finances were also affected by the resource constraints of
the country, of the sector, and of CESP, its major stockholder. In the
allocation of restricted long-term funding available for the three state-



- 24 -
owned power companies in the state of Sao Paulo, priority was given to the
large generation projects of CESP and only short-term borrowings were
available to CPFL. Its rate of remuneration fell from 10.3% in 1981 to 3.5%
in 1983.   CPFL finances are expected to improve in 1985-1990, achieving by
1989 a 10% rate of remuneration; a debt service coverage ratio of 1.2 times;
a contribution to investment of about 50Z; and a debt/equity ratio of 54/46.
72.       Provided that the sectoral financial rehabilitation measures
described in para. 54 are implemented, all beneficiaries should be able to
carry out their projects in a satisfactory and timely fashion. However, in
order to ensure that the financial performance of the beneficiaries of this
project would be satisfactory, the following agreements were reached between
the Government, sector authorities, and the Bank during negotiations: (i)
the Government would approve the investment programs of the benef_ciaries and
would ensure that adequate resources are available to the beneficiaries to
carry out their investment; (ii) the Bank would review annually and approve
the investment programs and financial plans of the three beneficiaries; and,
(iii) the undertaking of new major investments by the beneficiaries would
require prior Bank approval (Section 3.06 of the draft Guarantee Agreement;
Sections 3.01, 4.02, and 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement, and Section 2.06
of the draft Project Agreements). Also, the Beneficiaries agreed with the
Bank on a number of standard managerial and financial performance
requirements of Bank loans to the Brazilian power sector companies (Article
III and IV of the draft Project Agreements); and, the agreements of 1981 and
1983 between the Federal Government and the Bank on tariffs and rate of
remuneration targets will also apply to these beneficiaries (para. 50 and
Section 3.05 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
73.       The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies
is estimated at US$1,031.0 billion, of which US$400.0 million (or about 40%)
is the foreign exchange component. The costs are estimated on the basis of
preliminary detailed designs and couprehensive bills of materials and
equipment utilizing price levels prevailing in December 1984. Costs include
taxes and inport duties estimated at about 14% of base costs and price
contingencies assume the following annual escalating rates applied to the
base costs and physical contingencies: 5% for 1985; 7.5% for 1986; 8% for
1987-1990; and 5% for 1991 and 1992. This is based on the assumption that
the Cruzeiro would be devalued in accordance to the differential between
domestic inflation and international inflation.
74.       The proposed Bank loan of US$312.0 million (US$179.0 million for
ELETROPAULO; US$71.0 million for LIGHT; US$60.0 million for CPFL; and US$2.0
million for ELETROBRAS) would cover about 30% of the total project financing
requirements. The balance would be financed from the internal resources of
the beneficiaries and from capital contributions and borrowings. To assist
the Government and the sector authorities in their efforts to improve the
financial condition of the sector during a period of very stringent financial
constraints, the Bank would finance interest due on the Bank loan during the



- 25 -
first four and one-half years of project construction. By the end of the
decade, Brazil's balance-of-payments condition would have improved
substantially and the deteriorating trend of the sector's finances is
expected to have been reversed. The interest during construction to be
financed by the loan is estimated at US$50 million.
Execution of the Project
75.       Engineering for the execution of subtransmission and distribution
works will be carried out by the beneficiaries with their own staff which
have extensive experience in this type of work. The energy conservation and
distribution planning studies will be carried out under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank with the assistance of consultants.  Construction of
larger subtransmission and distribution works will be carried out by local
firms ander the supervision of the construction departments of the
beneficiaries, and smaller works will be carried out by the beneficiaries'
own staff, as is normal utility practice. These arrangements are considered
to be satisfactory taking into account the characteristics of the works and
the experience of the beneficiaries. Procurement, manufacturing,
installation and construction of the work, included in the project are
expected to be carried out during the period of 1985 to 1992. The closing
date of the loan would be December 31, 1992. Agreement was reached during
negotiations on performance indicators that have been established to monitor
the operational, financial and managerial performance of the beneficiaries.
Procurement
76.       Equipment and materials to be financed with the proceeds of the
Bank loan will be procuLed according to the Bank's guidelines, through
international competitive bidding, except for small laboratory and testing
equipment (not exceeding a total of US$500,000 equivalent) that will be
procured through limited international tendering. Procurement of equipment
materials and services for the construction of project works not financed by
the loan would be procured under the normal procedures of the beneficiaries
which give due consideration to efficiency and economy. As in previous power
loans, local bids which contain value added of Brazilian manufacturers equal
to at least 50% of the ex-factory price of the goods will be given a margin
of preference of 15%, or the applicable import duties, whichever is lower.
Inspection services for goods procured in foreign countries would be
contracted with consultant firms. Consultants for carrying out the
distribution, planning and the energy conservation studies will be selected
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. All equipment contracts over
US$200,000.00 each, to be financed with the loan proceeds, will be subject to
prior Bank review. It is estimated that about US$256.0 million equivalent of
equipment and materials to be financed by the Bank loan would be acquired
through ICB and that about two-thirds of the value of the contracts placed
through ICB will be awarded to Brazilian suppliers (Schedule 4 of the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 26 -
Procurement Arranuements
Estimated Cost in US$ Million
Method of Procurement
ICB    LCB   FA    Other a/  RP    Total
Part A: ELETROPAULO
Equipment and materials        186     42     -      50       152     431
(148)                                  (148)
Civil works                      -     91    42      12         -     144
Services                         -      -    26       5         -      31
(2)               (2)
PART B: LIGHT
Equipment and materials         76      8      -      -        74     158
(59)                                    (5)
Civil works                      -     45    14      .4         -      63
Services                         -      -    14       1         -      15
(1)               (1)
PART C: CPFL
Equipment and materials         60     23      -      -        40     124
(49)                                   (49)
Civil works                      -     43      6      -         -      49
Services                         -      -    10       1         -      11
(l)               (1)
PART D: ELETROBRAS
Services                         -      -      -      4         -       4
(2)               (2)
Total Project                       322    252   112      77       266    1031
(256)                  (6)             (262)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank.
ICB:  International competitive bidding.
LCB:  Local competitive bidding.
FA : Force account.
RP : Reserved procurement.
a/  Includes limited international bidding, direct procurement, and
contracting of consultant services.



- 27 -
Disbursements
77.       The proposed Bank loan i8 expected to be disbursed over a period of
about seven years, consistent with the standard disbursement profiles for
power distribution projects in the Latin American Region. Proceeds from the
proposed Bank loan would be applied to the payment of the following
expenditures upon the presentation of fully documented disbursement
applications:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported goods, or 100% of the
ex-factory cost for local goods, both procured under ICB procedures
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 100X of the expenditures for overseas training and consultant
services;
(c) 10OZ of cost of consultants for the energy conservation study; and
(d) Interest and other charges on the Bank loan during the first four
and one-half years of the construction period.
To reduce the interval during which the beneficiaries would finance with
their own resources items to be financed by the Bank loan, a Special Account
in the amount of US$10.0 million representing four months of average
expenditures would be opened at the Central Bank for payment to local
suppliers (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits
78.       The proposed subprojects represent only a portion of the
beneficiaries' investment programs in distribution and subtransmission and do
not constitute by themselves well defined components whose benefits could
clearly be segregated from those of the investment programs. Therefore, the
economic rate of return was calculated on the entire investment programs of
the beneficiaries. The expansion program of the subtransmission and
distribution systems of the beneficiaries is based on the application of
reasonable planning criteria. When reasonable alternatives existed for the
power system expansion (e.g., new supply points for the distribution network)
the beneficiaries selected the least-cost alternative at a discount rate of
about 11%. In most of the cases, however, no reasonable alternatives exist,
because investments involve expansion of existing installations which should
use predefined sites and right of ways. In these cases, the size and other
characteristics of the works are defined in accordance with standard
configurations which represent an economic solution.
79.       The internal rate of return for ELETROPAULO's, LIGHT's, and CPFL's
investment programs are about 8.7%, 5.4%, and 17.0% respectively, using
revenues based on projected average retail tariffs, which have been agreed
with the Bank, as a proxy for benefits, and costing electricity purchases at
the long-run marginal generation cost. This is consistent with the findings
of the DNAEE Tariff Study, which indicates that retail tariffs do not reflect
appropriately long-run marginal costs. However, if the electricity purchases
are cost at the current bulk energy tariff, the rates of return would
increase to 23%, 17.6% and 33.3%, respectively. Major differences between
rates of returns for the beneficiaries reflect the fact that beneficiaries
like LIGHT and ELETROPAULO are relatively investing more than CPFL in the
rehabilitation of their distribution system.



- 28 -
Risks
80.       The works included in the project do not involve mjor risks as
they are conventional and relatively simple, and the beneficiaries are
capable and well organized. ELETROBRAS and the beneficiaries have been
adversely affected however by the financial problems of the power sector.
These problems are being addressed through a number of measures agreed
between the Government and the Bank that will progressively improve the
financial condition of the power sector (para. 54).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUJMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ELETROBRAS, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreements thtween ELETROPAULO and the Bank, LIGHT and the
Bank and CPFL and the Bank, the draft Shareholders Agreement between the
State of Sao Paulo and the Bank, the draft Supplemental Letters On the
Revenues of the beneficiaries--similar to that approved by the Executive
Directors on May 11, 1983, in the context of the loan to ELETROBRAS Power
Distribution Project (Loan No. 2364-BR--and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreeaent, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
82.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness would be (a) the presentation to
the Bank of a satisfactory 1984-1988 sectoral investment program and
financial plan formally approved by the Government, and (b) the execution by
the Borrower of at least one subsidiary Loan Agreement with one of the
beneficiaries in terms satisfactory to the Bank. Satisfactory execution and
delivery to the Bank of the other subsidiary Loan Agreements will be a
condition of disbursement for the sub-loans to the other beneficiaries.
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 15, i985
Washington, D.C.



-29-
;- -                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~AM=O  I
Page 1 of 6
MAUI2L                - SOCIAL IDICATS DATASH
MuL                                  VR     ADM15 (WEIGHTE AVERAGS) La
(HOST B      ESTIMAT) b
19401     197i/b    gg      lb    LAT. AMICA  CAR            EROPc
-   Tia  Q. m)
TUtAL                           a51n.0      0512.0      6512.0
ACRICULTURAL                    1434.4      1961.2      2352.7
aro  curzas (c$)                    330.0   eo.0          2240.0           21U.6                    2345.3
(KILOGRAM  OF OIL EqUIVALENT)    264.0       412.0      740.0            "5.5                    1122.5
pa111 SvETL sransncs
POULATION.HID)o-TEA  CTYNSAN)  72594.0     95647.0   126806.0
URDUN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)     44.9        55.6        e.6             66.5                     46.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
rOPUIALnI 1 VEAR 2000 CHILL)                           I1I. 1
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                          303.6
POPULATION INENt                                         1.8
POPULATON DENSITT
VER SQ. S.                       8.5        11.3        14.6            35.7                     62.9
151 Sq. K. Anal. LAND           44.4        45.4       52.7             92.4                    135.9
POPULATION ACE STRUCTUIE (2)
0-14 nRS                       43.6        42.7        40.9             39.9                    31.4
15-64 IRS                       53.8        54.3       55.6             56.0                    61.1
O5 AND AOVE                      2.6         3.1        3.5              4.1                      7.1
POULATION GROWTH RPATE (C)
TOTAL                            3.1         2.8         2.3              2.4                     1.6
URI"                             5.7         5.0        4.1              3.6                      3.7
CRUDE KH RATE (PER THOUS)         42.7        35.0        31.2            31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TEUS)       12.9        10.3        6.1              8.1                     86.
GROSS REPRODUCTLON RATE            3.0         2.4        1.9              2.0                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACcEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)         ..       111.0       203.6 Ic
USERS (C OF MURICD MOEM)          ..          ..         ,.             40.3
reoOD AM 0l1XtrTI
INDEX OF FOOD POD. PIER CAPITA
(l969-71-100)                     a9.0       102.0      133.0            114.3                    114.5
PER CAPrTA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES CZ UF REqUIENTS)      106.0       104.0       107.0            110.6                   120.6
PROTEINS (CRAMES PER DAY)       64.0        62.0       60.0             67.3                     89.7
OIF WIDCH ANMAL SD PLSE       35.0         34.0       3b.0 Id          34.1                    34.5
CHILD (AGES 1-41 DEATH RATE       19.4        12.5        8.0              5.7                      5.2
LIVE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)     54.7        58.9       63.6             64.7                     67.4
INFANT SWT. RATE (PER THOUS)     110.2        98.6       73.4             60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (27OP)
TOTAL                             ..        55.0        77.1 /a         65.4
URBAN                             ..        76.0       6.8 7;           78.1
RAL                               ..        28.0       56.6 T;          46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        5.0        64.5 /           52.9
URAN                              ..        85.0       03.7 7           67.0
RURAL                             .         24.0       31.7 7;          24.5
POPULATIN PER PHYSICIAN         2210.0      2130.0         .,           1917.7                   1065.6
Pop. PEY NURSINC PERSON         2810.0      1120.0         ..            815.8                    764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          310.0       270.0      250.0 t.          367.2                   326.3
URBAN                          250.0       320.0         ..            411.5                    201.5
VIRAL                             ..          ..         ..           2636.3
AHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED          ..        18.4         ..             27.3                     20.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.1         4.J         .9 to
URBS                              ..         4.6        4.77; 
RURAL                             ..         5.2        5.3 7Te
AVEAGE NO. OF PERSONSIMMO
TOTAL                             -.         1.1
URBA..   1.0
RURAL                             ..         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT- (2 OP DELLINCS)
7OTAL                           36.7        47.6        67.4
R                                 ..        75.6       #.s5
VEAL                                         8.4       20.6



:  30
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
ICR                    -        hIhS!DEZeA~~ CMZOlIIUD: AWM0SM 
MOST                CPWS? RECENT IITXM*I )
330231IUSCI INDDL COM                 MID&A
1960a     197no      2:26UaUlk.    LAT. AMCA A CAR               ZIt
AJUSTED    *uI    SSO
PRDIui  TOTAL                    9n.0          4.0         330             1053.                     101.1
MAZE             ~~~~ ~~97.0  54.0       '32.0 li          106510.
UAmL                   93.0         64.0        93.0             M 104.5                   96.7
IlCONUARY  TOTAL         I        1.0          2.0         32.0             43.2                      39.1
MALK                   11.0         26.0        29.0 ai          42.                       6L9
MAUR                   20.0         27.0        35.0 fa44.5                                50.6
VOCAT?ONL CZ 0r SECONDARI)          16.6         16.7       539.2 A           33.6                     21.6
rSPIL-TRAC111 RATIO
RnAR                              33.0        28.0        26.0 1f           30.1                     25.1
ECOINUARY                         13.0        130         14.0              16.3                     20.5
AIXLT LrTUAC! RATE (Z)              61.0         66.2        76.0 /           79.5                      75.6
?ANIRZUE CASS/TIOUBAID 101           7.6         16.6        46.9             46.0                     54.7
RADIO RICIVRRJ/IOUS6A  POP          65.4        I0.4        165.1            22i.6                     164.9
TV lRclzV1U/TSttSt 1                16.5        ".3         119.7            107.2                     123.6
D7AM  ("AILT GWIUL
INTREur") ClCUIUAOIt
m   TOUSAND OPM      U            52.9         35.6         3.0               .5                      96.3
CINIA AIIU  ATSI_SACE/CNFUTA         4.4          2.0        1.6               2.8                       2.9
TOTAL LAOR NICE (TDS)            23326.0      30411.-    Qt3S5.0
FUZ  Cvumczur)                    17.2         20.1        23.2             23.2                     34.3
AGICULTUR  (PUCINT)               51.9         45.6        29.9             31.5                     40.7
INDISJIS (PINC )                  14.6        18.3        24.4              23.9                     23.3
PAIC!UATION RAYE (PERCENT)
TOTAL.                            32.1         31.7        31.B             32.2                      42.9
RXAZ                              52.7         50.3        46.9             49.3                      54.7
FOIZA                             11.2         12.8       14.8              15.2                     31.0
Z1COuOMC DSw UDM    RATID            1.4          1.4        1.4               1.4                      0.9
PERCENT OF PRIVATE I1CMM
3:CEIVID ST
ff136S? 5o OF                       ..USE.OLDS  ..
HIGHST 20S CP HOUSEHOLDS          60.0         63.5       62.0                .
LOIEST 20S Or RDUSENPLUS           3.8          3.2        2.8.
OUIlT! 40S   UOIf  O              10.t        9.0         9.4
ESTIAMT  ABS6LU7Z POVEt  ID
LEEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
unm                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~286.2
RURAL                                           ..        150.0 /d         14.0
ESrTATED RIZATIVE POVERT INCOH
LXM  (USS PE! CAPITA)
UARI                                                     465.0 d           522 5
URA'L                                                    332.0 d           372.4
ESTILAZD POP. BELO ABSOLUTE
POVEN.? ICOME XlVii (I)
DUUA                                ........
URA'L                                           ,
NOT AVAILABLE
NOr APTLICAL
0 T C S
The group awerages for each indicatr ere papu1atinwmI*hted arithietc nlmea.  Caverag  of countria  Mons the
-ndicatoro depende on evallbility of deta and la not uniform.
Unless othervme not. dDte- for 190" refer to ny year btwen  1959 and 1961; 'et- far 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and  dat for "Ioat kcut Zatleta" bt_me  1960 and 1982.
j/   1975;  1977;/a 1976; . 1979; IA  SgIning 1973 priary and secondary eduatio  cower age group. 7-14 and 15-17
Iat.a4of 7-10 a* U-17In arllar years; thireforn. mt reant eatimteo  rer not comparabla with *arller data;
/h 1976.
JUNE. 1964



-31-                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 3 of6
bass.  5It-0 sbdn  e deea  - la       ".y.u-satip -.0  elb -ft -sbaslA s.  Ast . it .besid sEs    sad ab" slow -, cb. "as-s..-str
me"etal. be....l it men Wad  ".aeat.s" ihtaaail.a   adne.da -W bY Allet.9               Pa"'.  ts atiatln  SW dec  iW. do. aM. kes-Ibis.l. .altg i
dettaebt .ad.  .4 -WatS.. iis-es Sena. a   --d        t. telemsa eJaf alfte.re, baa...  sfla
lb s11sr.... dg.ed  ds- El)  b. a-  a-a   sAP-d ef am .bjm  aedii ad gal . ew.ige; t P.*  0f deea hsaio. emn   1~dld a-a   abs catty drw  .6 lb.
ablees   aaEsw   .    Si               tSiaat els-4_dg    W    t   2RPu   rde bte 'SS&a in  wbat  tunIsg  WI 111". Metr  i. a-kk  be.-  .f e-v.~a.iem
eirtanssasl  1. at eeaa .    in l-  a".. aaa,smnale em0 p"lapsteas eea.I  irtaknlesiadd  lr san Redi....- ado"be  ignat  .alsvti   l I%. aetna  a.P
ai-. a. c. be  ahmti.-. lee 5*' -11 e            fains  a-de can Sb. isdIse.g d.p-d  -  ab setiabi4tls  ad dn. aS U. - a.. i.sss- an  a
aisft   g. is   ldblsetaed  .1 a-  aSitete  Mv Peelbi.i. 10e acme.- aMg at,y assa  Lo awsrn gta eta a -  iWdlasa  a tul1- aell  gat c-s.Ty aed
'Ieaisa..                                                                       I              is         -         Meltadedaa by  its-a  a paeint
MenInL   `"ets  sf     . ciaariN Mr sead tteka rUt. a psateciti              as. ad t       It Wal   s.,inma    n.paat    -s.a
messNo   . asss. a  siseta  sam- - is  t. '"itasi.ffit.                     .eatrsatiseilas
UsPi        -Ian dna.                                                          .aasraeeaslNd   W  eftetsalbdeteay,.t.s. dlserbs.,  raft  PIestetta - s- t.
P-rel. eItIlet-d -I.M.. Swie w - It. rs.bs.WA.r-&M                 tl1ssded     i  hl  apst .r.             spatii
4E,,M    P9a     - w0 pras. astaseas.et  as -n.-e as. pEg...                          ..LtIbU. 5. p.6lt. ad pram. ases-ltkia  apealellm  ispsealat
ea-misi  aiiM  - a.ru san Mna uSse-si lelsfl1                      sahba"Lt-Itsa  nears,`  beptat -  asab1tstssas   pasta-cany eaalf.d
tie. sgem  a  sea ee.                                                                iv astas  -  piweet.   RAtsb4labct. piswtlse. aaetps1ti,   lds
ass -  in lia55. VOnL  %aast.  aes  se-S.A belle. a
me. rlNUUp   WS     eseat Uppweest... aaeSa    I mt-ele                               -it.d-L maltsr s.t ptrae      "Ol      orke   by a pes-staaa  %Pe ir  a sti
nd-sr sssrc~aesk ..W"    .. esasta.. attast a  i  byiv. s-at.            sas       -a  sedt.. s5s) an0 sit. i.apetae r nal    d
-d  sek4hral              C.eaelf    kaiters  at .ea nd.iste P.- apatat ce1s,        Pss    lt-e"sed  met a 4 dat ae its I.e
LIP..aet  de..                                                                     .upxzu ffpLieessL    - Test  a-bea a atseg.a.s          .     eie
M               ~~~lb. .rb  PC bd..
M dt Me It I16% IWO. -d LUZ~~~test   sia   a   es
ala'  II  111    - baId, at -s- is lest pesaaa 6eesl5                                t mu.+       p%m   geesiLteass   .secr-
dat.aetsets.tL   sasy stel.a ans-it,a                                              a  tt  .as deats.   .dsr .- ledia, -p   -. atr a. teed ta
a...       e-  aP  s-sa  saga a-ats ad 9ftitisy                               A-1StIe. r-peet.aty. 0-sttea    bAee.ssprsasie..sd
mdad. ,rajastal ptva-mal,r Ic arsattils     l sea ia as ifteesseald  ..
a.... as..i  gtif  -Pwsa-y a ussis isassai  stab kes-maps Ma.aqs.Syrrsdeyale)el-sstea                                                       
a.pas  Int.a. ad tea tie. .s.cesr ss.attig  e, iP.e                                a-istts.tbtstis    .eaecae   asise
s-am. lb. P-cas.m #W lgastttt  r   ae   as.b Rowel teat.                         .6 W.aa. e-be, a  rare  IL1tiaae  rsapsats.ip,
aas=:R Aete_ ..i   -i.atsis   -hamIn ga t.p         Ws =d a.*. L,i
latte        LY        -1 aatsn.sa   as-s.  opea-ia  d-peil a sin. cI
aa  M. ifalab         Z  psetted.  ALA t   -pJsnts- p.pc                tlstklg.ibe a
Se.a.- -aas      -taaU  la           i      I.-.aatt arati                     ttsfs!t-j9.t.JJ~                        O-Lb. sat sti. a   .s
a.- ta  nepsstl. gum.b"    Net  ..-.peaa d, l4eantitpw dar. pvtasa  ks-  pe- asaced                                1 rsesti
rat  teq-  .. sttt-acIp t-aarpt.    atCsfaaa t-...I-- pnvattgaa                                                      -Lrat- .. abat..."  es P.-C
....hi ma. tt ars  TMe siatsa,ateia sea -  aseatsLl as sa                          saa-  pest. -s bias  cb.s sas WI.Le1ait  mamaii.
beas tb piJetted eisaa.M.cstsse,  ma a-itt.-. asib pet-rrslt  sa    t   dfet    .std-am   asdr
ten,a        at a   etstaas ia.   s     eiesaslss                          eetlissra  a letrp ffsa aiafassd01     *,t  ptis-av s-nrt
- B  lwlceus ten psekasitacsha leaete'                        Prldse aefi..ssts. -ltf si5afi i .stt taaslesla  S.
as. tea  laraat-     vtpa.astm an  be faadast . l                                       -i -leta.
isa..i. sgrrs ey  se e1 rst's.  actIrans                                 lb     stip --Altwees-. if easary" Stteiiss-s
73.iby-s-a-yera-ine,a,sa.bsa   tess se-srat- -trased.nl
-ii i    HIAs. i9M. -.d 1951 dais.t aeis esase. VAaselm    I - Umreta, Siaa eId". mc es -a ara.I
rst.g.a Ad. Cirt-=Caal  aita.. en-ist ..) asb-c Ce-*
V-)pas. .sd s.uL- srss  al s-n - pa.aaadas a' cad-pssraea ssI. ened,tges     ssve   r                                                  ns
p.a-tale   In4, tswo. a  ns  ccd..                                                  7r ea    -a.sa    s-   .~aa.ae.   ae ,a
cases.. are See !eaas-sst - teat -    stear eb  as tas  sa d-             L-taler," ess
fls.tss ais-i bstSfsasI   erie   as.sa Lra     C as .at ntaties    satP"55 pay iband a a-teskds.seaa
iM.s- Ce2 islea. teaes5        Itit.aL6                                          asita     saSsy. gM a-rg- ad is rem a-  asttca r rats
0=19MMORSM "L - nA4  its- bLab Psism"             s  .6 ste                  ass. -     Is i-ms.   tar f  maedd  vea. ed, atl a   seis...  s-eSeb
~ia IiitUHm IM  `  met "n..                                                  Nedafir   atiawd Itealatsg.
b-1- A-eg &-h. as' t~a   eprabssa   a    ~aseine..                                              P S   Asats   tar basas-
2tidlWFtUji  le.  i.az enP aas  eaa pa  2Ims 1s a-et.  satatese aiss-sd ?vsanr
testila  ".is  e-aw tyits--ja  -.aW   adtet  is"e. INV, aN                         aa.ats'syasrigsse   -p..    td-apetetedt-
W            Malsss    aaes Sa-1 (sad.)   - Se  ansi a ... aP-              .. 6. -d.It9 it It ep.r  ct ta-ir   ha-anb
psseare.                                                      siebass~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O N  a iss  MEc  ) La.  Wandes  asesi   i  dt-a. as-at a
Tag%. vtc.tc  - barsf Msaa   f -as -W             ft"rbs"tf s-fa`s                   .bL. asi..
ma   std          MPs.l  a -a- arsatiase -.fbe 1b-ebs  ns
prtca a  ta-a P arseee"      as st  as11-ISe  n.  bee at
ai-aa      e-  e-sasit   a   and tI-. -a.t    fsr  a-                                        bse       r-lat   ae-a~5 slde-a
peke~r.,ee                    t9ti  sst I'les a-sa. e..m-rc
ra-ealas Sesgascaiss eat is s-sags isa                             bLasiit"se  re - autos.N
peaiasa s al a. . S.tsli.  is Psg--- fed. .-I Lee  5
lettle -d       r easer. eea-e-edt -cteds.- at par ips                      tet.                 N yS-ee  f .Maknrs-swat sL a  tab. Seas..17
bsel"  pa.s-1 .1 a  aslacd pncus..  rasete,si as6-Us. s9M-s  aM                         ss         s 2t11ae1s saa .fsea.at,a
tad ad is    raia.dsr  .s.' bale. -sts ,a ca   clptets d asS(. ,,                   ar-sa  ms  asiec   95   Uni abHlr                n
see   eaaaat cannu   atstae    asisia legaee. *"-  eeP... mm                                 - .L.s. -M les. sisis.  s-s-iratssiPC.11kd s-mrarsaa   a
.stt..ad maease eabLE.ness.P         ---.asats beele    Is              atwo.fIa5s. a-s Mtar. 1 - psaek at  mase.s. i-an.stta   Sit,e
beta tasi arrsa  paSibe Mspal   at5ita   tcit-al  feta,     3942.            ad   bw dse-ta.     Peel      h  ellt                  It    -d
ccft.-. L.It sI.                                                                    s4fb5ca%eleI-   sa   tsss.s -tscsi s.ts        at     stcvs.
-r .smia-    'asnoi.-,  pias elbatsl -e.0.  psi -Lis ps                        s.a           aas    is    tart pspasid fl  t i.   a- res-tf
dsg "aIa.  tap -an-aas e-a e-sa.  aat   te   gs                              tea. Wprt,aAenet.dn. le               ea      5   ssael
assad  ce &sqella1 sa-1 b"Lefsepti da -iS. slto f-  cm. cads,atasset-e   e-asa  S   ne..   dtm   t
sa-tie    dUsladas-a-as a;O i -aa   is caeliea.-  bseaet-                   ts  ars0fate   sgat aass
itl ba    --sd t5r  tbU10 IC 7  a-  tided   M-&pele,11e.                                    TGm
isa  easias   I. *sf  a  tasa       L  t . -   ar es.  innlm   at   par s-_ e              - 1 _ __ _ _  ____ -F______P -______ ______
ef _____    _ e_____   __ P __- - _____t____ Ld  ". .   f M C   g                     . 4 b           issa-e l   t ieS  5.     aesi  ad - bt.m i. b l t b  l s
fl, C..L-assept at tad  s   .td - aes   a-de                                Evie.  ia-  it ara. wre                psia-ug    pseres   M pea
.kt1      anM  -0-se a  meet M Vc.- pe S  ad 210SweatY aec  ad7et2tlI k"a   "p-elet1-.                                                     - L
psi.. asst.a  adi s-  a-md a aftsJ_.  pA.Mi. Thins                ...-                                                                               Ne
esdd  a    as  be mian. 7ga-  if seals psas  a    s-t-daiaik.  aas Krss_ssraa_.    atpssrs `a-is,P-'
asaiss  ra- cas-in  a  psiaa a   i-  -  S~  ltiU-il. nit a  inL ersgtipSct "jP dle, e eA- ssaeld9  e s-t.5 epeie. ie         a
A  na                                                                                .aa.aat- 1LL.    "S  6 I  F". .
...! M.s-nsmhNAr   n- U.  re  be        m..  s.aalas                                   drn      a-naastss  sl                  tar J-  as.aaa
laf a scstg  asP . tar-1 isas - a-stc  assbge  ie gaa amsea
s-a  taise eMss. issas-s  -t ba-ia Nias)       -  U.s5e~     a  rant
.aseW s.ilei a resseaMLts       a.aptsmtpies.
be    s  a   .a".  s-sal   r-I na-             ma..- b-vaS.
n0. eeata te            aa  as-s. .psgm d a dsk.papsttat ac' s
-  ea          by paspi tte w leets, as t.sis  ffmtra-ss-  Aea
.a-S  atdtbbsetU.ppttt-b-a  ipe  r    es



- 32-
MINXX I
- mDIIc    0                                                       lage 4 of 6
}*1d.za       129.7  U 19I  (mid-3)
GQlw Cpitr  S   sI.ago (19m
M3S ILIM  at                                                   Aml %wth Dt  (1)
Ot r
Indlcator                   19i                               Actual                                                    Proj neted
1975    1560    l9U        1981      ljjd        _         D195      19n65         19     18 9   1911      191
tm DdnLe Pbftcb             zmqa9,8D0       5.6     7.2    -16         0.9      -3.2      4.5           4.3      5.4       6.2      6.7       7.1      7.3
lgd-lu                     23,766         2.7      6.2     6.4      -2.5       2.2      3.9           3.0      4.0       4.0      4.0       4.5       4.5
Iamluy                     61,192         5.3     7.9    -8.2        0.8      -6.8      5.8           5.7      7.0   8 .0         9.0       9.0      9.1
SeTDM                      102,173       10.3      7.3    -01        1.7      -Lz       3.7           3.5      45        5.2      5.5       6.1       6.4
G_mwttm                        .60          8.4     3.5      0.2       3.3      -L0       2.6           7.1      3.3       5.3      7.1       7.6       7.7
of   Inmu.itAb               37,974        -7.0    12.1    -g9    -4.2         -17.5      4.5           4.3     17.1      1L5       6.7       7.1      7.3
wawte of GIS                 23.62B        12.4     27      20.9      -8.4      13.6    20.0          -4.5       4.6       4.6      5.3       5.3       5.9
Iqoct of 015                 19594         -6       L8    -13.4       -.2      -17.2    17.3           18.4     1L6        9.4      8.2       9.0      9.2
oces N    ,ckad Srw          23D,063       -64      11.6   -16       -10.6      -3.4     2L6           4.7      2465      IL4       84        7.5      7.3
Prd
GOP Deonr (1970-100)                      3D5      2955    5.864    11,40D    28,241   3,541
si_ Race (aiez.-St )                        8.1    52.7    93.1    179.5       577.0  1.846.9
9ue of GO at ralP   Ptim (X)                                  Amal 1=mms (I)
(At Qtlt Pd)                                      Cle  Qt  1970 iHa.)
1575      198      1965C    1990/c                      1975-5   191-65   1563-Ri
*cca Dtfr P4cct                    IC0.0    IO0.D    100.0    100.0                           6.5       0.8      6.6
hgalt.ze                           9.2      IL0       8.3       7.5                         9.5       2.2      4.2
Tn6ary                            31.1      3L8      31.9      38                           4.6      4.3       85
serv1j.                           43.6      44.8     63.9      41.9                         7.8       L3       5.6
tomwptlgm                           76.6     81.3      74.7     73.5                          7.7     -L8        6.4
Gzu  l     buet/                    V.3      2.1       18.0      21.0                         2.8     -4.2       9.4
Eipmc G58                            7.5      8.8      13.5      12.7                         6.4      14.5      5.2
Mpact G5S                           11.4     11.2       6.2      7.2                         -13       -L8       9.4
Cua. na 1 S5izi                     22.1     16.1      16.4    2M.9                          -L6       -4.5     ILI
As of S of GOP
(At aQrut ramiu Ptim)
Publc F1nm (Qcral GwQemt)                             1970    1975    199   193/Z  19811k  1
Oirren ReNUM                                          16.6    19.6    3.8   23.1   18.9   21.2
nr5g e4enafh                                         14.4    15.8   17.6   19.8  2ZL2    25.4
EpDlu  (+) or  flt  -)                                 2.2      4.0    3.2    0.3   -1.4   -4.2
cqzlmlt liaie                                          2.6      3.8    3.7    4.1    3.5    3.4
FPiradi  (et)                                          0.4    -402     0.5    3.9    4.9    7.6
aew  drcs                       1975.53  19t81    1985.90
GNP Rui Rate CX)                 7.0      0.5    6.9
GM Per pim Outh Ra  C2)          3.0    -1.9    4.5
&We        t1  C-ith Rate (Z)    6.5      -       -
mm5                              3.3     2.7    3.1
Pug11 Shdqp Race                 0.0      0.5    0.3
Impat  midd                     -0.2    -L4       L4
/a At  I  prim;  ac              ee_ rcmu  at f ec and WiMl no sa      to -1aidc  ne laMxetc om ac e  sub1d1i.
/b 197540   dr  a  fwg    h,inbm; mdt  for mimFaue  ym  we for f ld lavat. with duw   in stodt. lzr1ud in cumudom.
kc Itjeccd       at   e    prie.
td PeD11mdy.
If 198-0182inla&gh    mm  oad1mmeffecaed   d          taa  mhe  hie ad Uub   ax~    hz  a.  wil - tc3fw    thed fadeEul euptis.
April 3D. 1985



33-  -                                                            AuIDF  I
- 3                                                                rPae 5 of 6
BRAZIT - ELTUAL  DAE  /d
A_mt
LES        St eAmi Oi.d lase M) - (at amutt 19O prim)
Otm Prdm
Indicator                    (1563                               Actual                                                     Projected
1975     190      q181     1982       1913     1984c    1581       19es      1997       198S      1989     59!0
Tco_
mUinl e     aM                 21,E98          19.9     21.2      9.9      -3.0       27.5     201        -4.5       4.6       4.6      53        5.3      6.0
8.98D         30.7    23.4       46.8     -10.1       14.3      9.0       -1.3       4.2       4.2       4.4       4.3      4.7
,baia   rn/b                  10.873          0.0    Z2.5       4D6        7.4       43.5     3L8        -7.0       5.0       5.0       6.0       6.0       7.0
3ed_a. liom                    1,449         -1.        1.4    -9.4       -30.3      -15.9     29.1       IL4       12.6       9.4       82        9.0      9.2
Fbad & Ouumrroab              1.67D          8.2      3.2   -54.8        -4.2       4.1    112.0         7.6       3.1       5.3       7.3       7.8       8.0
Phria                         4.g17         -a.8    -9.8       -&O       ;L6i      -1IL6    -13.        -09        LI        L3       -L6        S.9       6.1
1cd'z.z  ad eqIot             1,695          9.8       6.4    -6.9      -32.2      -13.0     35.4       2L9       25.7       13.8      8.1       LS s       8
Odwa                          3,257         -30.6    -L2        3.8     -.3        -3L3      2D.9       2.5        9.8       9.0       1I.1      10.2    IIL3
Prim
cpwt Prim Iner                                 176      290       252        Z1S       192       197       2D4   2Z            238       258      29D       3D3
Iqpwt Pdrim er                                 262      431       474        5m        493       363       329       ml        3         368       33S      42
Tm of ICIde1                                    72       67        53         43        39        57        62        66        68        70        71       71
CiMiCtiw o cMi kdiaifa Tne (1)                               Mmw   naul Trinevse (2)
(at owzuc  Prim)                                      (at amtmet 1920 prim.)
1975      1910       1958     1990                          1975-OD  1Sf0f5  195-510
>patt                                100.0     10i0.0    10.0      100.0                           5.8       1L0        5.1
PriMY/                              62.7      448       4S.2      44.5                            1.1       86        4..
Ik bf                               37.3      5S.2       53.8    S535                            l82 /a   23.2        5B
-                                     MDO.O 1Q0         100.0    10.O                           -L4       -2.7        9.4
Food and Cmuenr Coot                 9.8      I1         15.7      13.3                          17.5     -4.5        6.4
Peemhn                              Z5.4      444        85        6.1                            4.3      -7.3       2.2
1Adda.q -d lqipot                   2S.S      15.4      2L8        33.0                         -7.5       -3.4      I1.9
Other                               3B.3      29.1      47.0      47.6                           -L9       -3.1       9.8
S3me cE Tzae iddi              Sum cE       wid dth       9we of trnde %dh cipia
Tabtrial CaWtrim CZ)           1we1qg cntrir  (Z)           SZP5 anl 10iatrlsn (2)
nh m  of cia e                    1975      19D    1953          1975     1900    1983        1975     19W0    Ig3
E1R                              60.2     57.3    Q3           23.5     2L5    2L8           0.8 s     Li      2.2
TRP-M                           67.3      46.6    38.5         8.7      16.0    17.4        13.2      14.1    19.3
/a For the pedid  1981-1950. PFi    Prudicts nxbd  ant-praesd gmb pIta rm  me.
tb Fw the peid 19754-9e. 5_mafcr  ir1- ohe podsd.
fc PFelJalmy.
td Mhe ep   nd izapoer projecau am caloamed   folo.:
CELt Ph-i
Sep ain poojtmu  mm      fort  ma jot   lhmlnl c m_it -  affee.   w,  ,5o im pr                  d com.-  'el - for itm are and
-  itatugad. .a-pri.ed, ad crIr g7mb. Pime for Mrml-a1                dirat3eet E-- projection. MMe vaIen              ine In  wtundl e i  In
in  d t ats be  uksely adet,      cffESe. su., ad co= Umdzq at e_  rn  3t per yaw foo t of de perio  ad io Ilb-  mal gmdrg ar S7 bwen
_incufattoxied     am   i  - etO  in &diie in 1985 ad 1mcrem. tuu     5-7Z per yir letum   158640 a m    daiae lssesose rm  diet cf tie
law 197% ad sealy 196h.   d-pronie god%  ddh wodt cE spladtuirl-buad ad in  pzmhcts aim  q               d to folIo tIn griri Ei mifactfad
pn&C%  tie         agmlzuzd om  dIdttrn. Prim  far murpduiy cadlttrn  we _md w foll  tde in_me                    pPiele I    (IFE).
iwt rmoca
ftear 356 all 1qt  _mdiy gpus cp petulam eidrgmsly detad. &uuh of food ad  Id er  mm  god In Ldcad Ft gritd In
privte azaqitit; _taa ad    L pIui. tsG  pah; fLl saime, in  auluu scl tw gpHX; cIler la tmam Waf. bs    -W a r
pad.h; aimtal _ds, to ffid iamt.  Me gri n  din           cdc all cmptim ma fuavtim of   P grdu  f tc dol: pxubctm to sti d  to
issaee fra 530.000 bpd In 1985 in 600D ltpd in 158M  m.iidz  at doet lewluati 1990. I  11 OUIsorta we obtained - a md.baL.
lie Iioct pdrm la   fat food, ider fiesldiste pad. ad cqiuadose  ued  thide IFf-ar aibt 6-7Z per yr. ?Wal pri   mme idth
EP's _ tah   d -neml prim  ke -   ddh I            se boat the me _ IPI 1d fertLUlw prices  hit ieota  ptim -1  -h   idd  tin. ave thm the
April 30, 1985



er  O                              mme.  Mr0 0 
,33   LIUm  a6t bamt Prim)
leplalee         123.7 dii.. I.d.133)1 
am1in cLpits        tl 9311313  91131
-t3-  et
2373       10         133l        1OU2       INS        1to4 I      13         1it6       1317        13         133         13D
met Iette t  be   _  e                 -4,702    -12.364    -11,192    -12,.47      4,23           432     -3.61      -1.5,      -1.233        -779       -331        -756
aworm of oded                         3.670     20. LY      2%223       o175      21,303     27,003      26.70      s 3151      3 .176    23*179       4,434      S1. L0
1oet. of Ceed                        12.210     22,335     22,031      1.2315     1429       193.337     137        2.3:3      20, S4      23.47      27. 42      32.217
vet rtetr Ze                         -_.133     -1.621     -4.331    -11.,3n    -10,313    -10.,72    -12,031   -1,627    -11.133    -11.306    -11.333   -12 719
cot tbhh tate et pas t            C 2.0422    (6.331)    V7ON)    (P.321)    (34673)    (3,232)   (10.330)    CO.512)    (9.317    (10.003)   (10.0971   (10.70M)
- ILT debt)
mat le-beter leewLee                -1,423      -3.120     -2,365      -2,3s      -2.A07     -1.714      -2,605     -5.320     -4,040     -4.005      -2.773     4.321
mat Tet_feve                               13        126         in        -10         206         172          0          0          0           0          0           0
dArmt iceeg  Melel.                    4.6a3     -2.433    -11.004    -1.757        -4.142         654     -,641      -1.539     -1,35         -771       -232        -756
Ilet PItt   *l__-t                        632      1.121       1.231        V9I        "A4      1.067         732        602         330      1.06       1.260       1.42
Kw1  Le. (et)                           4.,2       4,433       e1..,      7.439      7,33       3.443       2,723       746        %237       6137       3i3         S.33
Cre.  l.bc-ote                      (6,9121   (11.313)   (16.04S)  (16,3333   (10,303)   (16.03)   (14,0 o          16.3O0    (I18.93 7)  (2,947)  (20,303)   (20.432)
hIwt1etIM                            (.3,232    (6.3203    (1,33)    (7,934)    13.579")/ (10.240)   (11.211)   (14.111)   Cl(,)   (R4,720)   (12644            C15.093)
Oteelite 1..  Ab,_o  let1.              -230         -27       -321        -394        122       3l0            0     -1. 00     -1,        -2,40       -3.000     -% 044
Other Cpltsl (1wvJWl  o       e
MAd deeel-                              -71      3.42        2,333      2. 706    -1,9l      -4. L3        -32         202       -72       -1.102     -1.474     -1.233
O-_3e 1t  e_.e   (-t Ilet_
teri   .)                             2.223      3.39       1-4         '.15ss        24    -7.027        -500        -761       -931        -991     -1.34      -1.536
Iwteeele    re.-  L.            a        .119      6.12       7,301      3.2)0      3,727     10,476      20.976     11.737      125        13.680     13.024      16,620
(Of .bc6 jpld)                           36      1.143         301         65        207       -           -          -          -           -          -          -
Eee  -  r.t2 h        Io opt  (0C31)        3.3        3.0         2.3        1.6        2.3        4.          6.3        6.0       ..6          3.3        4.9         4.e
t.el  p Clt.el *.  Debt
Ce-L Ollb.n      t. r6.9l2                        11.313    12.045       24.33      10.902     23.333      14,.l      2.430       1B.933     1.947      20.803      23.432
Offt.Lel Cee                           -          -           -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -           -
Ce.I_e_l 1_f                            102         19          19       1t0           4         74          14         70         4*         l2          1o           7
PAC                                   37          16          17       I23           3          D0         to         57        32           20          4           3
OPEC                                -           -          -           -             I         15           9          3           I          0          0           0
IDA                                 -           -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -
od_,                                   15          3           2       -          -              I          5          a          9           a          6           4
"heC.ee. e 1Le                        6.20      2I.294      16.02&     14.33      10.69     I26.3o7      14,767    124.10      266.90      13.923     20.792     20.435
*iffelet ElporitCeLt                 3111 3      62          as          2       103           30       1.3 2M3I3             1 196       1.209      2.000       I.000
I123                                 250         342        33                     213 -204  1.294      2.43       I196       2,443       1501       2.346      1.327
Otb,. ftltIltl   l                    113        133         292        311        117        269         297        274         276        26        269        270
Prt.te                              6,.130    20.151     16.362      13.007      3,373     11.,37      1I.349    12.132      15.970      16.031     17.973     17.618
Jtte I Debt
Debt Dtetele   _  Deel  b-d          23.6I      56.4"      61.25       X3,034     79, 0o      M.615      92,343     9.090      99,327    1  520234    10,663    114.002
.bLl.ft.b.tfly Ce-.ted             13.949     *9.394     44.633      39.911     s3.0       49,3.87 1   76.423     31.41      90,34B    97.423       0.4,647    111.339
Prr-te   eGCeret_d                 9.592 "     4.603     19.792      23,122     21.232     19.2z2      2.923      22.472      9.179      4,09        3.314      2,643
.dteb.tred Debt                       x .71     11.028      132, 3     14.322     13.917     IL3.z2     1252,0      10.192      9.97        9.483      3.426      9.417
IUD r2c0323 (2)
123.2 dlebeerI/t,tel a..ee
dI..bs,eee,..te             3.5         7.2        LI         4.2.       312         4.9        9.7         3.3        7.6        7.9         1.         7.5
1.32  .D/eetel D.7                                   7.7         3.6        3.7        4.*         5-2         .o        4.3        7.2         7.I         .6        7.6
IND debt ee       / -teI   d-bt Se-ee     L5         2.          2.2        L5         4.2        3.8         4.1        4.5          .         4.3        4.3         7.4
Debt Slt
T.tel Sele  Pp-te lb                  3.670     33,142      15,333     16.325     1,.206     20.973      22.973     24.339     25.233      25.435     26.425     2, *94
etere-et                            3.,93      6.321      7.939      9.341       7.672     10.131      11.,67     10.273     20.363      10.735     t0.794     11.402
P.?et. .e Z &Ve         n CWS)           39,8       56. 5      60.6        71.7       64.0       72.3        30.0       73.3       e1.9       40.9        33.4        48.3
re_  I2te.t UE  - I.
reeted Le    (2) Ic                         .7       12.7        15.3       IZ.7       3.4         11.9       12.0        9.9         9.9        9.7        9.3         9.5
off tel                                   6.0        9.1        10.3       10.9       10.5        .          ...        e.. .        .e.       a           .... ..a.
Pri.t   se.L 3.9                                    13.6        11.3       23.2        1.6       e.e         ee         *.e         ..         _.c         ..        ..
kIxt pboity r _-
ere-eged Le  (T.e.) IC                     9.0        9.7         9.7       10.9        9.2        1.4        30.1       11.4        11.4       11.5       12.5        11.5
Off lclel                                1&.        13,7        12,6       13.7       1239         -,.       .e -         -          .e -       .. -e                 u,..
P.ete S_ege                               6,9        3.9         9.0       10.2        3.4        .e.        a..        e.g.       g.e.       5.C.        g,e,       C.C,
A. Zof St Cf  Vb Dbt  td
lfterttey  e    re .d    1. o bt O3t3t_t_
lit rtttlX  M *-tit.l  5 7er23
Ikaerltl.  de eI23le 10  e.e                                    93.
7 t    t stseetwer  d De Det r_tee
2 te t _e I.d. t lb. ftlt yoe.
I   Dee tet dwet7 Irll ee  1ol_l-r telt     edjee-t.
/b   toteet e       el      - -  -d et    e  1. t1re dbt 12_  .t1-t                      d .h.et   dbt.
c  Pbelilc Debt  r7 fee 1975.
IL PreleIeeeY.
L.  *e 1362. tbe m rtstlze _tl-t  t            tk rdudeltre  2te  eet.  Far ottr y         . de  mtete le fe  tb. p.le1p.l tha  _I  be dee .ttbt roett.Ilax.
*_. - Iet   -01                                                                                                                                      2. 1332



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STADUS OF BANK GRFCP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATHENJF OF LOANS
(As of Harch 31, 1985)
Amount less  Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                   Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(- ss Milorns)
Seventy two loans fully disbursed                                   3,107.7
1195     1976 Brazil                           Rwual Development       12.0        1.3
1317     1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry           83.0       25.9
1362     1977 State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development       42.0        1.4
1452     1977 Brazil                           Education               32.0        7.1
1488     1977 Brazil                           Rural Development       11.0        2.3
1525     1978 Banco thcional da Habitacao      Sewerage               110.0       57.5
1537     1978 Brazil                           Rural Development       24.0       13.2
1538     1978  ELETOBRAS                       Power                  130.0       15.8
1557     1978 Brazil                           Roads                  114.0       17.3
1568     1978 Brazil                           Agric. Extension       100.0       16.4
1589     1978 Brazil                           Rural Development       37.0       15.0
1654     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Sites and Services      93.0         .6
1656     1979 Banco Nicional ds Hahitacao      Water and Sewemge    100.0         13.2
1714     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development       26.0       16.3
1720     1979 Brazil                           Urban Development       70.0       26.6
1721     1979 COPEL                            Power                  109.0       26.7
1728     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development       40.0       22.5
1729     1979 Brazil                           Irrigation              28.0        4.7
1730-5   1979 Brazil                           Roads                  110.0       25.7
1822-5   1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Control       34.0       30.4
1823     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           130.0        4.3
1824     1980 CEEE                             Power                  114.0       73.2
1839     1980 Brazil                           Urban Transport        159.0       37.9
1850     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    'dater Supply            139.0       32.9
1867     1980 Brazil                           Education               32.0       18.1
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development       63.0       51.5
1895     198D  ELETRDSJL                       Power                  125.0       87.9
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development       56.0       23.9
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                   54.0       43.4
1965     1981  EBMJ                            Urban Transport         90.0       57.0
1970     1981  Banco Nhcional da Habitacao     Water Supply           180.0      108.0
1989     1981  Brazil                          Alcohol Development   250.0        87.0
2015     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             29.0       16.6
2016     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             60.0       17.9
2060     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture             67.0       31.4



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. 0NMARY SIWADMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount less  Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                   Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
-      ____                                                    (US$ Millions) -
2061     1982 Brazil                           Health                  13.0        6.0
2062     1982 Brazil                            1ghways              240.0        63.7
2116     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       15.1
2138     1982 ELETROBRAS                       Power                  182.7      146.4
2163     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       18.6
2170     1982 Brazil                           Urban Development      123.9      105.0
2177     1982 Brazil                           Rural Developnent       42.7       31.7
2193     1982 Brazil                           Urban Development       L89         4.8
2196     1982 CVRD                             Iron Ore               ,04.5      117.2
2224     1982 Brazil                           Feeder Roads           154.0      129.0
2225     1982 BNDES                            Development Banking   220.0         9.5
2249     1983 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           302.3      210.0
2268     1983 Brazil                           Agro-Industries        400.0      374.0
2269     1983 Brazil                           Rural Development       67.8       60.0
2343     1983  Brazil                          Urban Development       52.7       48 1
2347     1983 Brazil                           Export Development    352.0         1.4
2348     1983  Brazil                          Agriculture            303.0        6.0
2353     1983  Brazil                          Agriculture             65.2       61.0
1729-1   1983  Brazil                          Agriculture              7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983 Brazil                           Agriculture             22.8       22.7
2364     1983  Eletrobras                      Power                  250.6      227.5
2365     1983  Eletrobras                      Power                  222.8      190.5
2366     1983 Brazil                           Education               20.0       17.4
2412     1984 Brazil                           Education               40.0       36.9
2446     1984 Brazil                           Federal Highways       210.0      189.7
2447/1   1984 State of Sao Paulo               Health                  55.5       55.5
24487?   1984  State of Sao paulo              Health Studies           2.0        2.0
24887?r  1985 Brazil                           Development Bankid.g  300.0       300.0
24897?  1985 Brazil                            Education               72.0       72.0
Total                                                9,866.7 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 1,734.8
Total nw  outstanding                                8,131.9
Amount sold                              45.8
Of which has been repaid              45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                               8,131.9
Total undisbursed                                               3,560.3
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



37                                               AM-
tp 3 o 3
IL    fEl a   0C UWaWIS  da Sh2te 31, 19D)
Plami  ~ ~ ~       ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        uu~~t In3M  Sit
Obliger                                    TX9.d  .I..s                    lam       IqetQ      WAl
1557               _Sm     do  -1CMa. de Clectulddid.                             ectdm  qmdlm                        2.00               2.00
1958                 Wlitft. S. A. lul_n a 1he RIlp aid  per                                                          L20        -       1.2
IlS                 D. L L PImEtI  do kmiL  S. A.                                Auwh tiv    m                        0.45       -       045
1956                WLIsOwsUd        do Bai. S. A. - labatla a Ctdo              Immi Wddeb                           2.5        -       2.45
1959                QWdda Mis  de Cnn fted. S.L A.                               cam                                  1.         -       1.20
1959                Ouqia Cablulal. S. A.                                        tIp                                  4.00       -        .00
1966/196/972        Aw  %1lra, L A.                                              Steel                                6.00      1.      9.3
1966/199            bjel e C*Julm 1   u_mfl .. SL A.                             tip aid lper                         3.78      .41      7.19
1967/1912           Ultmfeut    S A. -    1Itutda e *Crdo Jo FV lllmsi       n  Fextufzm                              LU22      3.03    IL25
1969                hRIdSR Udm.  S. A.                                                d                               5.50      2.68     L38
158                 hellcisflan, S.L A. Istu4ae Cnrdo               _tnomlu                                           5.50      2.6      636
1971                0d4mm  S. A. Imdutte e Cnrdo                                 ttuaed_sla                           4.60      L"       6.04
1971                Ri Ond.t, - CGuhde do Caal do Sd                             tip                                  4.D       -        4.90
1972/1975/1561     CGapubla & C n tnml S_ im                                                                        36 169.14   6.70   11.6
1973/7477/61/3/6    Coddh SIkuXia d Omabem    - MD1                              tel                                 797   L 27    9L24
1973                 tyl tia!t tvDslo           faud - 1w!                      Ctl  reml                             5._O      -        5.00
1973/1918M96B      1      de Do_1lta  doatwios tUle. - aMC. S. A.   Nidal fug and Rhftudg                           65.00      6.74     i7W
1974                 ib;ntd_ VUs, SL A.                                          Eun_tD   ud lhtuiul Spltp  .         .00      -        6.00
1974                hebcLa de Tad   bUx, S. A.                                 Tis                                  31.0D      -       31.O
1973/1979           Cpa. (hbme Iuai  Ltd.                                        CIkes Dlek                           *LlS      L19      7.3
1975                4dmm tb nt.  S. A.                                           etd                                 m          -       mmoo
1976          Su          l       la -M141 do lite. S. A.                       iails                                 F.45      LO0      7.45
197/190D            Te w S. A. -  -1 Catadem           do Ntat                  Tale                                 16.20      -       12D
1977                EM S. A. PrYb ae tlCo                                        ra aid Ahidu tatltp                 2D.O0      -       3.00
1977                Iemas  Rio do tbre S. A.                                   MEda                                  15.O        -      15.O
1976                Cal  SLenegta S. A.                                          Tra ad S5ed                          636       3.00    1I38
1979                Voml  do ft      I b tr   e *elmi, S. A.                    mt Vdldels                          60m.0      5.27    65.27
919                 lqg do tbid    S. A. -                                                   -bis  pant y de hsa      2.00      -       2.D
5910                Dmoj6 da Abs S/A - Daews - ArJaulW. liedsta
e G.inrdo d Obasglrus                   0IiCI1                                                 3.50   LC 0       4.50
19D                 Ulia' lfleetd    de II_e S. A. - IMA                         lane and S0O                                   - .e
196                 IN - Ctida Iahalal de FoUprapilsa                           Cblala aid  bdum ia                  15M00      2.00     .0OD
196                 UD1.4.s COute S. A.                                          Onlaa  Sid  &uuXa1a                   -        0.25    025
1963                Sm.eAm zaoa Qaka e In_eal S/A                               Farllan                              35.O0      6.O0    41.00
19M                 Poaog  ema da                                               Cusina and betadntdLa                43.00      5.0     4600
1961                Irijdu                                                        -aid  Cpt lbfrket                   -         1.50     1.50
1911                CWme pDhuflela de * wmda - 0Cai Fxd and PY. Pea                                                   5.50      3.00     WM
1961                TMto                                                        Ohidma aid betadimdls                46.00     400    500D
s16                  Ca CMI                                                     C t aid Gtnama brEd                  40.m0 SCOD5.00     s
ve *lmufrg S. A.                                                                Ib' Olsl N   e                       30.00     0.45    31045
191B                C[a   _de   de bx1dprps (00')                               "-a  Ca$M1 bik                        -          .03     .03
196                 Arka Fddfin                                                  tawd id Food Etoha                 1M00        -       13.0
196                    pU@  1a  do Amp  C A)                                     PiU au                               6.10     -         6.10
1                   PISA - tpel di Iqxss SLA                                     tIp & tper rta                      60.00      5.17     5.17
196                 soemLr"                                                    Fted ad Fosd Ehromlg                   3.0       2.50     5.50
19B                 CNG                              q                          C-t aud Ceuwactla Mb.edals           35.        -       35.00
1956                CAqmht Alcolqdida 1tdn1i                                             ad 1u trfodeatla            20.00      40      24.00
195                 OAts da Diluae                                               Chla aid enhdnlsl                    2.75      1.AD    455
-             1M      Cm   C U                                                                       9SL97     964   10.41
me Chnod3laso. Tem_latb, Vtaymes ad Solm                                               6679       1513   06.3
TL C       m         flm PAd by 10                                                     WO.1S      63.31   33.49
T1aL I bnd                                                                              71.39     12.56    6.55
Al 15, 19M5



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Pa p I of 
BRAZIL
SOUTHEAST POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken to Prepare Project: approximately seven months
(b) Project Prepared by: ELETROPAULO, LIGHT, CPFL, with Bank
assistance
(e) First Presentation to the Bank: September 1984
(d) Appraisal Mission: January 1985
(e) Completion of Negotiations: May 9, 1985
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  August 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1. The federal Government agreed that:
(a) as a condition of loan effectiveness, it will present to the Bank
a satisfactory 1984-1988 investment program and financial plan
formally approved by the Government (para. 54);
(b)  not later than November $0 of each year, prepare-and furnish to
the Bank an updated five-year investment program for the electric
power sector, and a detailed financial plan for the investments
included in such program, both to be satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 54);
(c) cause the five-year investment program to be carried out in
accordance with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, the funds and other resources required for
the purpose in accordance with the sectoral financial plan
(para. 54);
(d) the required measures are undertaken to reduce the sector's
reliability on borrowings (para. 54);



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) it will prepare and agree with the Bank during 1985 on an action
plan to implement by December 1989 the recommendations of the
long-run marginal cost study that is being financed by the Bank
(Loan 1939-BR) (para. 54); and
(f)  if tariffs for bulk sale of electricity generated at Itaipu were
to P.xceed the levels now charged by Brazilian suppliers in the
South, Southeast and Central-Western regions of Brazil, the
Federal Government will promptly take measures required to offset
cost increases arising from high Itaipu tariffs and to ensure
that the agreed rates of return are met (para. 54);
2. The execution by the Borrower of at least one subsidiary Loan Agreement
with one of the beneficiaries in terms satisfactory to the Bank is a
condition rf effectiveness (para. 82). Satisfactory execution of the
other subsa.diary Loan Agreements will be a condition of disbursement for
the sub-loans to the other beneficiaries (para. 62).



IBRD 18836
{VttlUtA, C.C  .  SI   A 
cOtO"UA9     Lr  e \p..*...         AFLANtlC OCtAN                                                              BRAZIL                                                                                                                 :
1;g"'N4BJ                                         ..~ *4kr  .  e-             SOUTHEAST POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT                                                        ama W                                           .o' os
LIGHT SUBPROJECT
4                    B  R  A  Z  I J                                                                                      AD*I  A , .
BOLIVIA                 )
..NTM ,' .,A't  OCEENIA   '              tANtOAt                                                                                                             \             Ei               r                  f 
;,r5.g, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 11 DE JANEIRO SJ/\M                                                                                                                       A      9^        X                            '
US .,  i  *.~4                                                                                                                                                          SAIAPeD'L\   \   t    A    '.;R
'... ILE
VUHAL ~~~ .. AE10  ~          HASAI
_ 010D040   C W6~                                                                                                                                                                MAWTIN5 hCASA CA %    / \ \  III .\CA
I. .     A'G'T.'.    ..   / \N C_
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n r. ...|esce^o .WF.
W MAARGINS    CAL A  ON                                                                                                                                                                 80 
--                 CONOUA                                                                                                                                   */uaIw~~~~~~~~~~~~AUA  ur
TRANSM15510N ~     ~       RLKNI IINE           VAICO  C ,LAS                                                      N                                          tF
0    SmiC'A  SANTIA C            A                                                                                                        CAO*~    LWI
''   '---' tGv .v          131 EV       . .     , ,   , ,,,    ,  ,    ,       Z    * "   * ,A,    ,, .A D'ADU
X ' ~~~~UNDERGRIJO                                      U     N 1      *         i  {- * 
*                     *PNE            STEP-OOWN                       0     tOWNS PROGRAM 1925!
*             PO'.G ENSRAN SWITCHINO  -ATN                                  STATE EOUNDAIIES ts
. -.   *   'u.O._ r  *-U Mg. .w.eT OASMISUTION                    -C- INTERNATIONAL  OUNDARIES
NArL IVLI



IBRD 1U37
BRAZIL
J           t          sAo PAULO               SOUTHEAST POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
CPFL SUBPROJECT
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PTO
*C   nYlL  tNl IUlt>L;., .....Z............ N 4 a  
~~~~~~jp                    '.                                                 /oRANZtL),  ^ /t    
cotooliA           .,~~~~AI ANIIC OCAiAA
7r
B R              A A I                                      t                                                   A L 
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,P
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SX^JQ XGAUIC   "                                        So_           %o.,A
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il
A116INVINA~ ~~~~~!: t XfIIANO PQJ OCHt!l                                                                           F s A<_ 
.   .                               tl^Nl14"tON tlNg ~    ~ ~        ~    ~~~swm         U kA_|5             "  
* ~ ~      ~           ~          ~         ~         ~         4 W CIt,,J  
--A- _ - U  NICe                          IA                                                 IAUIANU
" __" "  ~~~~~~~ -  5tAtl OUNDA11e5                                                                         - o   ^   L  *  il *~~~~~~~~~~~~AIL-WW
~~~~~*~~~~  *t1 e* 
-   CPu ERVICEARiA STJNOAR  T   AN . AIO.....   OTHER..s.  OWN                                                                              Al
UNIAN ARIAS        UUTATIONS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL E



H   4  E          )  ~~~~sAo PAULO                                           BRAZIL                                    t,                                                                      < 
i,   s   > .   A@e                     ~~~~~~~~~SOUTHEAST POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT  &                                                     0,,,,,               7 ,,o 
2 w l --t 2~~ ELETROPAULO  SUBPROJECT Cit-_j3xy
-   ttIlCt ARElA OUhliARI ,yf\C#/J                                                                                                &     /    \f                    *_\>t
g B~~~~ R  A  Z  I L    \/  '
A.~~~ ~ ~ 0A ,a                                                                            sr K
elWI IAsONIGA   19515*                                                                              ,c-1    ej 
Ib|_l~~~~~~~~PE EXP ANSISION MOGNM195 -199                                                                                                                     ,: ;;I   tO C.-' 
rw_$u_ _ l 0 ItV URIAN AREAS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5UE5TP110N5   ILlYlOIAUtO SIIVICE AIIA *OUNDAlltl               le  20   M3  Z    5T1           4?
_J~~~~~~~e@C st is N--G*        otE-oiecN  S   E OUDRI5Tm |@  wD
# AA~~*I w ** 8>_ Ole|_ SWITCHNGEo-NTERNATNO NATIOUNO^IS |E10 T 
^ >     ~         ~~~~~~ ~ KTNIITI                                                                                                         L  rlu13"B   8tIlJf    "    
Mt            11 .wm              TEMIITI
TRANSAAISSICN~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ LINI



