Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT NUMBER TF022519
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Technical Assistance for the Preparation
of the Second Employment and Training Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated May
25,
1993
GRANT NUMBER TF022519
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May
25, 1993, between the REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the Recipient) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) acting as 
Administrator
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS
(A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association
(the Association), Japan has 
requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed,
to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain
programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be,
in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS
(B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
said grant funds
(the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in the Schedule to this Agreement
(the Technical Assistance) on 
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph
(b)
of this Section
(the General Conditions) 
Page  2
constitute an integral part of this Agreement
:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) 
and
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections
2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section
5.01 thereof, means the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the
Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between Japan and the Bank
and the Association referred to in Recital
(A)
of this Agreement,
except that in Section
6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting
in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on
its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the
Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Technical Assistance; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of
the Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recip-ient, purchase 
such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section
1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms
"yen" and 
"
¥"
mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section
2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an
Page  3
amount of sixty
-
one million yen
(
¥
61
,
000
,
000
)
.
Section
2.02. (a) Except as the Recipient and the Administra-tor may agree upon 
from time to time, the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account to
finance
100% of expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of consultants' services.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement.
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1994 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Adminis-trator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Section
3.01. The Recipient shall, through its Ministry of Professional Training 
and Employment, carry out the Technical Assistance with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, employment, financial, industrial,
labor and training practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Technical Assistance.
Section
3.02. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall employ consultants required for the Technical Assistance and to be
financed out of the Grant: (i) whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator; and
(ii) who 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Administrator on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981
(the Consultant Guidelines).
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of
budgets, short lists, selection proce-dures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less
than $
20,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not 
apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature
as reasonably determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value.
Section
3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance of the
depart-ments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Technical 
Assistance or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other informa-tion concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section
4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
Page  4
parties hereto
.
Section
4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section
5.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment 
of the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of
Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section
5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of International Cooperation and
Foreign Investment
149, Avenue de la Libert
é
1002
Tunis-Belvédere
Republic of Tunisia
Telefax: Telex:
799069
18060
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI)or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By
/s/ Mohamed Ghannouchi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By
/s/ Odin K. Knudsen
Authorized Representative
Middle East and North Africa Region
SCHEDULE
Description of Technical Assistance
Page  5
The objectives of the Technical Assistance are to assist the Recipient in the
preparation of a project aimed at: (a) easing the adjustment of the country's labor 
force to the process of privatiza-tion and industrial restructuring of enterprises; 
(b) increasing labor mobility through the implementation of efficiently-improved 
training and employment services; and
(c)
upgrading the work force's skills through
in-company training and continuous education.
The Technical Assistance consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Carrying out of a study to analyze the impact of industrial adjustment on
employment and to evaluate the cost of providing employment search assistance or
retraining of employees, so as to propose measures to: (a) improve the capabilities of 
the vocational training sector and employment services; and
(b) adapt the manage-ment 
and intervention instruments for the provision of employ-ment search assistance and 
employment retraining.
Part B:
Carrying out, on the basis of surveys of enterprises and private training
institutions, of a program to design: (a) a strategy to develop in-company training 
and private sector partici-pation in training; and (b) a methodology to utilize 
updated basis and parame-ters adequate for the permanent monitoring of employment, 
especially in sectors with significant technological evolu-tion.
Part C:
Provision of comparative study tours for management responsi-ble for the 
vocational training system and employment services.
