Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4036 TUN
                              Loan Agreement
                 (Second Training and Employment Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated July 2, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4036 TUN
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1996, between the REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE  I
                    General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures
          in the territories of any country which is not a member of
          the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
          such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
          payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is pro-
          hibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
          taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
          any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
          with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
          Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "ANPE" means the Borrower's Agence Nationale pour la
Protection de l'Environnement, established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower's Law No. 88-91 dated August 2, 1988, and its imple-
mentation Decree No. 88-1784, dated October 18, 1988, as the same may
be amended from time to time;
     (b)  "ATE" means the Agence Tunisienne de l'Emploi, an industrial
and commercial public institution (tablissement public caractre
industriel et commercial) established and operating pursuant to the
Basic Law (as hereinafter defined);
     (c)  "ATFP" means the Agence Tunisienne de la Formation
Professionnelle, an industrial and commercial public institution
(tablissement public  caractre industriel et commercial) established
and operating pursuant to the Basic Legislation (as hereinafter
defined);
     (d)  "Basic Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 93-11 dated
February 17, 1993, and its implementation Decree No. 93-1354 dated
June 14, 1993;
     (e)  "Basic Legislation" means the Borrower's Law No. 93-11 dated
February 17, 1993, and its implementation Decree No. 93-1353 dated
June 14, 1993;
     (f)  "Category" means a category of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and the term "Categories" means more
than one Category collectively;
     (g)  "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
     (h)  "CENAFFIF" means the Centre National de Formation des
Formateurs et d'Ingnierie de Formation, a public institution
(tablissement public) established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 93-12 dated February 17, 1993, and its imple-
mentation Decree No. 93-1492 dated July 12, 1993, or any successor
thereto;
     (i)  "CNFCPP" means the Centre National de Formation Continue et
de Promotion Professionnelle, a public institution (tablissement public)
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 93-12
dated February 17, 1993, and its implementation Decree No. 93-1493
dated July 12, 1993, or any successor thereto;
     (j)  "dual-training" means the training to be provided by a
Page  3
Sectoral Training Center (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the
provisions of Articles 17 through 20 of the Borrower's Law No. 93-10
dated February 17, 1993;
     (k)  "Enterprise Agreement" means: (i) in the case of an existing
Sectoral Training Center (as hereinafter defined), an enterprise agree-
ment concluded or to be concluded pursuant to the provisions of Article
18 of the Borrower's Law No. 93-10 dated February 17, 1993, between a
Sectoral Training Center (as hereinafter defined) and one (1) or more
enterprises, defining the contribution to be provided by the Sectoral
Training Center (as hereinafter defined), the content and schedule of
the dual training program to be provided by the enterprise, and all
other relevant conditions regarding the enterprise participation
therein; and (ii) in the case of a new Sectoral Training Center (as
hereinafter defined), an enterprise agreement concluded or to be
concluded between ATFP and one (1) or more enterprises, defining the
contribution to be provided by the new Sectoral Training Center (as
hereinafter defined), the content and schedule of the dual training
program to be provided by the enterprise, and all other relevant
conditions regarding the enterprise participation therein;
     (l)  "Feasibility Study" means a feasibility study referred to
in Section C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement to be submitted prior to
the carrying out of a Sub-Project (as hereinafter defined) under Part
C.2 of the Project;
     (m)  "FIAP" means the Borrower's Fonds d'Insertion et Adaption
Professionnelle established and maintained by the Borrower pursuant
to the provisions of Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank dated  September 24, 1990 (Loan 3255 -
Employment and Training Fund Project), and related provisions of its
finance laws;
     (n)  "FIAP Procedures Manual" means the FIAP Procedures Manual
(Manuel des Procedures du Fonds d'Insertion et Adaption Professionnelle)
dated May 3, 1996, adopted by the MVTE (as hereinafter defined), setting
forth the eligibility criteria and procedures for the financing there-
under of training activities aimed to update the skills of workers in
activity and retrain and redeploy the labour force, as the same may
be updated and revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank;
     (o)  "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding
to any of the Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January
1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year;
     (p)  "Impact Indicators" means the agreed impact indicators to be
utilized by ATE, ATFP and MVTE (as hereinafter defined) under the
Project to measure the degree to which the Project objectives are being
achieved, as the same may be updated and supplemented from time to time
in accordance with the provisions of Section A.2 (a) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement;
     (q)  "Methodology Manual" means the Methodology Manual for the
Elaboration and Implementation of Training Projects (Manuel
Methodologique d'Elaboration et de Realisation de Projets de
Formation) dated May 3, 1996, adopted by the MVTE, setting forth the
criteria for determining the economic justification for the financing
of a Sub-Project (as hereinafter defined), as the same may be updated
and revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank;
     (r)  "MVTE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Vocational Training
and Employment (Ministre de la Formation Professionnelle et de
l'Emploi), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Decrees No. 90-875 dated May 25, 1990 and No. 90-1297 dated August
7, 1990, and the Ministerial Decision dated September 9, 1994;
     (s)  "PMU" means the Project Monitoring Unit (Unit de Suivi du
Projet) referred to in Section A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (t)  "PRONAFOC' means the National Program for In-Service Training
(Programme National de Formation Continue) established and operated by
the Borrower pursuant to the Borrower's 1995 Finance Law No. 94-127,
Page  4
dated December 26, 1994;
     (u)  "PRONAFOC Procedures Manual" means the PRONAFOC Procedures
Manual (Manuel des Procedures du Programme National de Formation
Continue) dated May 3, 1996, adopted by the MVTE, setting forth the
eligibility criteria and procedures for financing of in-service
training thereunder, as the same may be developed and updated from
time to time in agreement with the Bank;
     (v)  "Sectoral Training Center" means a sectoral training center
(tablissement de formation professionnelle) pertaining to ATFP's
training system and referred to in Section III of the Borrower's Law
No. 93-10 dated February 17, 1993, which provides training on the
skills required in a particular branch of economic development;
     (w)  "Sectoral Agreement" means a sectoral agreement: (i)
concluded or to be concluded between ATFP and a sectoral industry
federation (federation sectorielle) pursuant to the provisions of
Article 18 of the Borrower's Law No. 93-10 dated February 17, 1993,
and in accordance with the Framework Agreement regarding the
Partnership for the Promotion of Dual-Training (Convention cadre
pour la promotion de la formation en alternance) dated May 23, 1995,
among the MVTE, the Unione Tunisienne de l'industrie, du commerce
et de l'artisanat, and the Unione Gnrale Tunisienne du Travail; and
(ii) setting forth the parties' undertakings to jointly develop and
promote dual training programs with the enterprises operating in the
sector;
     (x)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (y)  "Steering Committee" means the Steering Committee (Comit de
Pilotage) referred to in Section A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
established within the MVTE for purposes of the coordination and
monitoring of the Project; and
     (z)  "Sub-Project" means a specific development sub-project: (i)
to construct or rehabilitate a Sectoral Training Center; and (ii)
which, pursuant to the provisions of Section C of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, shall have been approved by the Bank to be carried out
under Part C.2 of the Project.
                              ARTICLE II
                               The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
Page  5
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
               the date immediately preceding each date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
               of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
               such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
               allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and
               (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July
               1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise
               than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
         (iii) "Semester" means the first six (6) months or the
               second six (6) months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
(6) months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
               amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
               to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
               of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
               preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2
               of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
               interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
               during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
               the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
               Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
               Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
               of such Quarter."
               "(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
               commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
               1 in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE  III
                       Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
Page  6
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through the MVTE, CENAFFIF and
CNFCPP, carry out, respectively, Part A, Part D and Part E of the
Project, and shall cause ATE and ATFP to carry out, respectively,
Part B and Part C of the Project, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
economic, engineering, environmental, financial, labour, technical
and training practices, and shall provide, and cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause to be carried
out, the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall take all necessary
measures to ensure that adequate and timely financial arrangements
are in place at all times for the successful operation of the
Project, including the provision, beginning with the Fiscal Year
1997 budget and until Project completion, to the MVTE, ATE, ATFP,
CENAFFIF and CNFCPP, of the necessary budgetary allocations required
to maintain an adequate level of their respective annual recurrent
and investment budgets.
     (d)  For the purposes of: (i) carrying out Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall promptly make the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Categories (2) (b), (3) (b) and (4) available to
ATE on a grant basis; and (ii) carrying out Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall promptly make the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Categories (1), (2) (c) and (3) (c) available to
ATFP on a grant basis.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation
of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                               ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
               Account, for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
Page  7
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
               or payment out of the Special Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
         (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors
               as to whether the statements of expenditure sub-
               mitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the
               procedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the Basic Law shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of ATE to carry out Part B of the Project.
     (b)  the Basic Legislation shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of ATFP to carry out Part C of the Project.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                              ARTICLE VI
                      Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Borrower shall have completed one (1) Feasibility
Study acceptable to the Bank for the rehabilitation of one (1)
Sectoral Training Center and one (1) Feasibility Study acceptable to
the Bank for the creation and establishment of one (1) new Sectoral
Training Center; and
Page  8
     (b)  that the PMU shall have been established to the satisfaction
of the Bank and its Project Coordinator, procurement specialist and
accountant shall have been appointed.
     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VII
              Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and
Foreign Investment of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of International Cooperation
            and Foreign Investment
          149, Avenue de la Libert
          1002 Tunis-Le Belvdre
          Republic of Tunisia
          Cable address:                     Telex:
                    MCIIE                    18060
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.               64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                    By /s/  Azouz Ennifar
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Gianni Brizzi
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
     Category                 Equivalent)         Financed
(1)  Civil Works                                50%
     (a) For Part C.2 of      10,000,000
         the Project
     (b) For Part C.3 of         360,000
         the Project
(2)  Goods and Equipment:                       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
     (a) For Parts A, D        3,000,000
         and E of the
         Project
     (b) For Part B of         1,100,000
         the Project
     (c) For Part C of        20,000,000
         the Project
(3)  Consultants'                                100%
     Services and
     Training:
     (a) For Parts A, D        7,400,000
         and E.1 of the
         Project
     (b) For Part B.2 of         140,000
         the Project
     (c) For Part C of         3,000,000
         the Project
(4)  Training for Part         7,000,000         100%
     B.1 of the Project
(5)  Training for Part         4,000,000         50%
     E.2 of the Project
(6)  Unallocated               4,000,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    60,000,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
Page  10
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods,
works or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  Category (1) (a), until and unless the Sub-Project in
respect of which the withdrawal is requested shall have been
approved by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of Section
C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(i) goods and works, under contracts costing less than $350,000
equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms, under contracts
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (iii) services of individual
consultants, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent;
and (iv) training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's
strategy to modernize training services with a view to increase
the competitiveness of the Tunisian economy, in particular through
enhanced training and employment services relevant to the needs of
individuals and enterprises and an increase in labour productivity
and mobility.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Labour Market Information System (LMIS)
     Implementation of a LMIS suitably designed to improve the
efficiency of training programs and the performance of labour
markets, through the provision of the required technical
assistance and equipment, including:
1.   development of a labour market information system and streng-
thening of the relevant institutional capacity of the MVTE so as to
properly monitor, in particular on the basis of tracer studies, the
operation of labour markets, and increase its efficiency in the use
of labour market information sources;
2.   strengthening of MVTE's capacity to monitor and improve the cost-
effectiveness and efficiency of training and employment programs and
services, including the carrying out of impact evaluations to assess
progress in the achievement of the objectives of Parts B, C and E of
the Project; and
3.   preparation of an information dissemination system on periodic
surveys on labour market and training indicators, and production of
a periodic bulletin and any other appropriate means aimed at dis-
seminating the information required to allow individuals and firms
to adopt training decisions based on appropriate market signals.
Part B:     Development of Employment Services
     Carrying out of a program of placement and retraining services for
workers affected by economic restructuring, in particular:
Page  11
1.   reorientation and restructuring of the activities eligible for
financing under the FIAP so as to properly address the needs to re-
train laid-off workers or workers at risk of being laid-off, and
provide the required placement services; and
2.   modernization of the employment services provided by the ATE,
including the provision of training for its staff, the strengthening
of the national computerized network system, and the development of
a cost control system for said services.
Part C:     Efficiency and Relevance Improvement of Pre-Employment
            Training
     Carrying out of a program aimed at the gradual transformation of
institution-based training into enterprise-based dual-training, and
the gradual improvement and expansion of the apprenticeship program,
consisting of the:
1.   elaboration and implementation of a new management system for
training centers designed to render such centers more efficient and
autonomous, including the provision of equipment, local and overseas
training for ATFP's and training centers' staff;
2.   rehabilitation of selected Sectoral Training Centers and creation
and establishment of new ones, and provision of equipment for
industrial training, office equipment, pedagogical materials, and
library resources required therefor; and
3.   strengthening of the management and monitoring program for
apprentices and training services provided by ATFP, including the
construction of training facilities and the provision of training
and office equipment for such facilities.
Part D:     Development of Training for Trainers and Elaboration of
            Training Programs
     Strengthening of CENAFFIF's capacity to: (i) develop and update
training programs in conjunction with enterprises and ATFP's sectoral
centers; and (ii) organize training for trainers, including the
provision of training as required therefor.
Part E:     Development of In-Service Training
     Development of the existing and new in-service training programs
for enterprises through the:
1.   strengthening of CNFCPP's management system of the vocational
training tax, in particular, through the setting up of a unit
specialized in the monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness
of the professional training tax system; and
2.   support to the PRONAFOC through the provision of in-service
training to enterprises eligible thereunder.
                                * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                         Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15               $2,500,000
     beginning on November 15, 2001
     through May 15, 2013
Page  12
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
    as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
    Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be
prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment                Premium
                                  The interest rate
                                  (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum)
                                  applicable to the Loan on
                                  the day of prepayment
                                  multiplied by:
Not more than three years               0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but               0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                 0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not              0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before               1.00
     maturity
                             SCHEDULE 4
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Page  13
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more
each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
     (c)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to bid for each contract for goods estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8
of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (i) Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000
equivalent; (ii) furniture; and (iii) works required for Parts C.1
and C.2 of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.   Direct Contracting
     Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be
compatible with existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature may,
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for: (i) goods awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part B of Section I of this
Schedule; and (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  14
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services required for the Project shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments,
such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard con-
tract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms
acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (i) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (ii)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms;
(iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of consult-
ing firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above;
or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                       Implementation Program
Section A:     Project Oversight and Institutional Arrangements
1.   Steering Committee (SC)
     The MVTE, through the Steering Committee, shall have overall
responsibility for ensuring that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the MVTE's policy framework in the sector, and,
more specifically, for overseeing and coordinating Project acti-
vities and liaising with the donor community.  The Steering Com-
mittee shall be presided by the Minister of the Ministry of
Vocational Training and Employment, and shall include at least
one (1) representative from each of ATE, ATFP, CENAFFIF and CNFCPP.
2.   Project Monitoring Unit (PMU)
     (a)  For the purposes of ensuring the proper implementation of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause the MVTE to maintain during
Project execution the PMU headed by a Project Coordinator, designated
directly by the Minister of the Ministry of Vocational Training and
Employment, and consisting of one (1) procurement specialist, one (1)
accountant, and support staff in number adequate for its efficient
operation. The PMU shall assist the Steering Committee on matters
relating to the overall monitoring of the Project and shall be vested
with specific responsibility for: (i) preparing for submission to the
Steering Committee's and the Bank's review and approval not later
than July 31 in each Fiscal Year, beginning with the Fiscal Year after
the Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1996, an annual implementation
program outlining Project activities proposed to be carried out under
Parts A, D and E thereof during the following Fiscal Year, including
the estimated necessary budgetary allocations required therefor, and
an assessment of the need to update and/or modify the Impact
Indicators for Parts A, D and E of the Project; (ii) causing ATE and
ATFP, respectively, to prepare for submission to the Steering Com-
mittee's and the Bank's review and approval not later than July 31 in
each Fiscal Year, beginning with the Fiscal Year after the Fiscal Year
ending on December 31, 1996, an annual implementation program out-
lining Project activities proposed to be carried out, respectively,
under Part B and Part C thereof during the following Fiscal Year,
including the estimated necessary budgetary allocations required
Page  15
therefor, and an assessment of the need to update and/or modify the
Impact Indicators for Parts B and C of the Project; (iii) collecting
and consolidating into an overall annual implementation program for
submission to the Steering Committee's and Bank's review and approval
not later than October 31 in each Fiscal Year, beginning with the
Fiscal Year after the Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1996, its
annual implementation program with the annual implementation program
to be prepared by each of ATE and ATFP, respectively, pursuant to the
precedent provisions of this paragraph; (iv) monitoring progress in
implementation of all Project activities in accordance with the Impact
Indicators and the aforementioned overall annual implementation
program; (v) maintaining and overseeing Project accounts and monitoring
the flow of funds under the Project, including the Project accounts
maintained by ATE and ATFP; and (vi) advising ATE, ATFP, CENAFFIF and
CNFCPP on financial and procurement matters, and ensuring that pro-
curement of goods, works and consultants' services is carried out in
accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement.
     (b)  To ensure the proper implementation of Project activities,
the PMU shall, not later than December 31, 1996, prepare and submit
for the Bank's review and approval a proposed training plan for the
relevant MVTE staff on procurement, accounting and disbursementsprocedures to be 
applied under the Project, and shall, thereafter,
implement the said plan with due diligence so as to ensure timely
and efficient results thereof.
Section B:  Mid-Term Review
     The Borrower, through the PMU, shall:
     (a)  maintain, and cause ATE and ATFP to maintain, policies and
procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with the Impact Indicators, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, and cause ATE and ATFP to prepare, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish, and cause ATE and
ATFP to furnish, to the Bank, on or about October 31, 1999, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period pre-
ceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recom-
mended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following
such date; and
     (c)  review, and cause ATE and ATFP to review, with the Bank,
by December 31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank shall request,
the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, focusing, in
particular, on the administrative status of Part A of the Project,
the effectiveness of PRONAFOC and the vocational training tax rebate
system administered by CNFCPP, and assessing the need to redirect
the activities under the Project and shall, thereafter, take, and
cause ATE and ATFP to take, all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section C:  Eligibility of Sub-Projects under Part C.2 of the Project
     Financing of Sub-Projects under Part C.2 of the Project shall
only be approved for a Sub-Project: (i) which, on the basis of a
Feasibility Study carried out in accordance with the criteria set
forth in the Methodology Manual and acceptable to the Bank, is
determined to be technically feasible and economically and
financially viable and designed in accordance with appropriate
safety, health and environment guidelines satisfactory to the ANPE
and the Bank; and (ii) in respect of which the Bank shall have
approved the relevant Sectoral Agreement and at least one (1)
Enterprise Agreement.
Page  16
Section D:  Training under Parts B.1 and E.2 of the Project
1.   For the purposes of selecting the training to be carried out
under Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause ATE to
apply at all times the criteria and procedures set forth in the
FIAP Procedures Manual.
2.   For the purposes of selecting the training to be carried out
under Part E.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause CNFCPP to
apply at all times the criteria and procedures set forth in the
PRONAFOC Procedures Manual.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2),
(3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
Page  17
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  18
