Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7467-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 20, 1988
Country Department III
Europe Middle East and North Africa Region
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURREN CY EQUIALENTS AT APPRAISAL
US$ 1.00               =    Yemeni Rials (YRls) 9.75
YR1 1.00               =    US$ 0.102564
YRls 1.0 million       =    US$ 102,564
(As of November 1988)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)      =    0.039 inches
1 meter (m)            =    3.28 feet
1 square meter (mz)   =    10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)       =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         =    10,000 square meters (2.47 acres)
1 netric ton (ton)    =    2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)            =    0.264 gallons
1 1/s                  =    One liter per second
1 m3/s                 =    One cubic meter per second
1 rim3                 =    One million cubic meters
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADF      =    Abu Dhabi Fund
AMSL     =    Above Mean Sea Level
ARA      =    Agricultural Research Authority
CACB     =    Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CLCCD    =    Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative Development
CPO      =    Central Planning Organization
ERADA    =    Eastern Region Agricultural Development Authority
ERADP    =    Eastern Region Agricultural Development Project
ERR      =    Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP   =    Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooper tive Program
ICB      =    International Competitive Bidding
IDA      =    International Development Association
LCB      =    Local Competitive Bidding
LCCD     =    Local Councils for Cooperative Development
MAF      =    Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NORADEP  =    Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
O&M      =    Operation and Maintenance
M&E      =    Monitoring and Evaluation
PCR      =    Project Completion Report
PDRY     =    People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PPF      =    Project Preparation Facility
SA       =    Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
SFYP     =    Second Five-Year Plan
SMS      =    Subject Matter Specialist
SRADP    =    Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
SSHARDA  =    Sana'a, Saadah, Hajjah Regional Development Authority
SURDP    =    Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU    =    Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TDA      =    Tihama Development Authority
TFYP     =    Third Five-Year Plan (1987-1991)
UNDP     =    United Nations Development Program
YAMCO    =    Yemen Agricultural Marketing Company
YAR      =    Yemen Arab Republic
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGIO1L AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                              Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     i-iii
I . BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A.  Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B.  The Agricultural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
II.   THE PROJECT AREA AND DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL . . . . . . . .        12
A. Physical Features            ..12
B.  Water Resources  ............. .....
C.  Socioeconomic Features   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
D.  Organization and Agricultural Support Systems   . .           17
E.  Irrigation and Agricultural Practices and Potential. .        20
III.   THE PROJECT  ....  .     .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .  23
A.  Project Objectives, Rationale and Scope  . . . . . . .        23
B.  Detailed Project Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        24
C. Cost Estimate .30
D.    Financing    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
E.    Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
F.  Disbursements  ....  .     .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .   .  34
G.  Accounts and Audits  ....  .     .  .    ..... .  .  .  .    .  35
H.  Environmental Impact . .   ........   ....  .        .   .    36
I.  Riparian Issues  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  36
J.  Status of Project Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . .        36
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        37
A.  Institutional Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        37
B.  Project Implementation.      .. . . . . . .                   38
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        39
D.  Work Plans and Progress Reporting  . . . . . . . . . .        40
E.  Lands for Project Facilities . . . . . .   . . . . . .        40
Project was prepared by FAO/CP in November 1987, appraised by IDA in March/
April 1988, and postappraised by IDA in September 1988. This report is based
on the findings of the appraisal mission to the Yemen Arab Republic consisting
of Messrs. Hikmat G. Nasr, Senior Agriculturalist (Leader); Youssef Fuleihan,
Economist; Luis Moscoso, Irrigation Engineer; D. Masterton, Agriculture and
Livestock Specialist (Consultant); Fouad Khoury, Sociologist (Consultant); and
0. J. Rescher, Dam Specialist (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Chapter                                                              Page No.
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . .      40
A.  Production . . . . . . .... . .         ..* **.....           40
B.  Financial Results  . . ..  ... .   .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  43
C.  Taxes and Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          44
D.  Benefits and Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . .    .46
E.  Economic Rate of Return  . .... . .              ....         47
F.  Project Risks  .    .. .......  . . . . . .      .... .       48
VI.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . .      49
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1    Present Land Use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      21
2.2    Crop  Areas   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
3.1    Project Cost Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      31
3.2    Project Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      32
3.3    Procurement Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      33
3.4    Disbursement . . . . . . . . . .  .       .  .  . . .       34
3.5    Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      35
5.1    Farm Size and Area Under Development . . . . . . . . .      41
5.2    Farm Income and Return to Family Labor . . . . . . . .      44
ANNEX I:
Supporting Tables and Charts
Table-I    Gross Domestic Product by Economic Sectors, 1982-87          51
Table-2    Agricultaral Sector Development - Key Indicators . . .       52
Table-3     Imports Classified by Commodity, 1982 85 . . . . . . .      53
Table-4     Production, Area and Yield of Major Crops, 1.982-87         54
Table-5     Incremental Production of Fruits and Vegetables and
Cereals of IDA-Financed Projects at Full Development        55
Table-6     Estimated Supply of Fruits and Vegetables in YAR . . .      56
Tahle-7    Projected Demand for Selected Commodities in YAR . . .       57
Table-8    List of Vehicles and Major Equipment and Machinery . .       58
Table-9     Proposed Locatior.s of Extension Centers  . . . . . . .     59
Table-10   Technical Assistance, Training and Studies . . . . . .      60
Table-ll(a) Summary Accounts Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . .     61
Tabie-ll(b) Summary Accounts by Project Component  . . . . . . . .     62
Table-ll(c) Project Components by Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     63
Table-12    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit . . .     64
Table-13    ERADP 1989 Schedule of Implementation  . . . . . . . .     65
Table-14    Key Project National Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     66
Table-15    Cultivated and Cropped Areas (ha) and
% Cropping Intensity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      67
Table-16    Present and Future Yields, Areas and Production  . . .     68
Table-17    Estimated Net Water Requirements (Thousand m3) . . . .     69
Table-18  Financial Prices    ..70
Table-19  Economic Prices               ..71
31 28C



ANNEX I:
Supporting Tables and Charts (Continued)
Page No.
Table-20    Financial Crop Budget at Full Development  . . . . . . .   72
Table-21    Incremental Annual Taxes  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..   . . .  73
Table-22    Cost and Rent Recovery at Full Development . . . . . . .   74
Table-23    Marib Dam Scheme Surface Water O&M Cost  . . . . . . . .   75
Table-24    Economic Analysis ..   .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    76
Table-25    Sensitivity Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   77
AMNEX II: Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .     78
CHARTS
C-1 World Bank - 42499.1  : Crop Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . .   79
C-2  World Bank - 42499.2  : Overall Implementation Schedule . . . .   80
C-3  World Bank - 42499.3  : Organization of Implementing Agencies .   81
MAPS
IBRD 20584 - ERADP - Project Location
IBRD 20585 - ; ADP - Project Area
3 1 2 8 C



- i -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REF RT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower            :         Government of Yemen Arab Republic.
Amount              :         SDRs 11.0 million (US$15.0 million equivalent).
Terms               :         Standard IDA with 40 Years Maturity.
Beneficiaries                 Inhabitants of the Eastern Region of YAR.
Implementing Agency:          Eastern Region Agricultural Development
Authority (ERADA).
Agricultural Research Authority (ARA).
Project Objectives and Description:
The project aims at increasing agricultural production and farmers'
incomes, particularly in the agricultural areas benefiting from the recently
constructed Marib flood control/irrigation scheme. This would be achieved
through the development of a tertiary distribution system. the establishment
of an operation and maintenance service for the Marib Scheme, and the
strengthening of agricultural support services in the area. The project al3o
aims at establishing a strong institu%tional framework for addressing the
longer-term ewricultural development needs of the Eastern Region (Marib and
Al-Jawf Governorates), through the strengthening of the recently established
ERADA and the augmenting of agricultural research. The project would provide
for the above-mentioned services and institutions: development facilities in
the form of technical staff, staff training, expert/consultant services, and
studies; buildings; tertiary canals; vehicles and equipment. Also, the
project would provide, through farmer participation, investments needed for
on-farm development. To assist with project mobilization, a PPF advance
(P-508-YAR) was established.
Benefits and Risks:
The project would benefit 2,600 farm families, or 15,000 people in
the Eastern Region, through agricultural development. Farm production would
increase resulting in higher incomes and less poverty for a majority of
farmers. The project would also lay the foundation for future benefits for
about 14,000 farm families (about 90,000 people).



-ii-
At full development the project would increase annual fruit and
vegetable production by about 24,000 tons, forages by about 18,000 tons and
grains by about 6,000 tons. The main risks include possi'jle problems related
to modification of traditional wate rights for spate irrigation from the
Marib Dam; the difficulty of securing, in a timely manner, the necessary local
funding to meet operating costs; possible delays in project mobilization and
credit effectiveness; and potential aquifer contamination with fertilizer and
pesticide residues. To minimize these risks, and to reduce tribal conflicts
and help resolve problems related to water distribution, the Government has
appointed an advisory council to ERADA, which includes representatives of
beneficiaries, to assist in problem identification and solution. A technical
committee within the advisory council would finalize operation plans for the
Marib Scheme and provide technical support to the council in its contacts with
the beneficiaries. The Government also indicated that because of expected
revenues from oil exports and the high priority given to the development of
the oil-producing Eastern Region, adequate budgetary allocations would be made
to meet the necessary project operating costs. Regarding credit
effectiveness, the Government indicated that appropriate action would be taken
to streamline ratification procedures. ARA would monitor potential aquifer
contamination and recommend remedial measures if necessary.
Project Costs a'
Local     Foreign      Total
------- (US$ Million) ------
A.  Regional Institutional Development              5.9         8.1        14.0
Strengthening of ERADA                        3.1         2.5        5.6
Augmenting Agricultural Research              2.6         2.1        4.7
Technical Assistance, Training & Studies    0.2           3.5        3.7
B.  Marib Scheme Development                        1.6         2.9         4.5
Strengthening of the O&M Service              1.1         2.1        3.2
Development of a Tertiary                     0.5         0.8        1.3
Distribution System
C.  On-Farm Development                              1.0        1.6         2.6
Total Baseline Cost                             8.5        12.6       21.1
Physical Contingencies                              0.8         1.4         2.2
Price Contingencies                                 2.1         2.5         4.6
Total Project Cost                             11.4        16.5       27.9
a/  Exclusive of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
…(US$ Million) 
IDA                                              1.5       13.5        15.0
Government                                       5.8        3.0         8.8
Beneficiaries                                    4.1         -          4.1
TOTAL                                         11.4       16.5        27.9
Estimated Completion Date: December 31, 1995
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
… ____ _ _____.__  (ius$ million) -------------------
Annual               1.0 a/ 1.5    3.0    2.5    2.8    2.3        1.5    0.4
Cumulative           1.0    2.5    5.5    8.0   10.8   13.1    14.6   15.0
a/ Including refinancing of the PPF.
Economic Rate of Return:   17.8%



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
L. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01     Although agriculture is the single most important sector of the YAR
economy and generates over 21%1' of the country's GDP (Annex I, Tables 1 and
2), the potential for agricultural development is constrained by limited water
resources and weak development institutions. The Government's aim is to
increase the productivity of the existing areas under cultivation by improving
water management techniques, introducing modern agricultural practices, and
creating better agricultural support services.
1.02     The Government's initiative to develop agriculture, supported to a
large degree by IDA, started in 1973 in the Western Region (Tihama Plains) and
followed in the Southern (Taiz and Ibb Governorates), Central (Sana'a and
Dhamar), and Eastern Regions (Al-Jawf areas). More recently, development has
included the Northern Region (Saadah and Hajjah and some northern districts of
the Sana'a Governorate). Regional institutions for agricultural and
irrigation development have been/are being established for four of the five
ecological zones of the country. A similar institution has been created for
the Eastern Region (Marib and Al-Jawf Governorates) but has yet to be
developed. The Government has also constructed a flood control/irrigation dam
in the Marib Governorate, but its newly created operation and maintenance
service needs strengthening.
1.03     In continuation of its development drive, the Government of YAR
requested IDA to support an agricultural development project in the Eastern
Region of the country. The proposed project was prepared with assistance from
the Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP)
in November 1987 on the basis cf an earlier (August 1987) FAO/CP
identification mission.
B. The Agricultural Sector
The Macroeconomic Framework
1.04     Since the early seventies, YAR has been changing from a subsistence
economy with a small external sector to a more developed economy, in large
part propelled by remittances from Yemenis abroad and foreign aid. Workers'
1/ Excluding qat.
3 1 2 8 C



-2-
remittances peaked in 1980 and amounted to US$1.3 billion or 49% of GDP. Due
to the economic slowdown in neighboring oil-producing countries, these inflows
have since declined to about US$0.4 billion in 1987. Rapid economic and
social progress was made during the 1970s and early 1980s. Foreign aid,
notably from friendly neighboring countries, helped fir.ance the Government's
development program. The increase in income from migrant workers' remittances
particularly benefited people in rural areas. Piivate initiative responded
favorably to the growth in public sector spending and private sector income.
The Government's development program was further facilitated by liberal
pricing policies and an open trade regime.
1.05     While incomes increased during the 1970s and early 1980s, several
structural economic issues emerged. Tax revenues and external aid lagged
behind government expenditures. Maintenance of a fixed parity vis-a-vis the
U.S. dollar resulted in a loss of international competitiveness, which was
further weakened by a rapid increase in wages. The fiscal deficit reached 26%
of GDP in 1982. With most of the deficit financed by the banking system,
liquidity expansion averaged 27% a year between 1982-84. For some time
liquidity was partially absorbed by the rapid growth of imports and resulting
balance-of-payments deficits. The financing of these deficits was, however,
clearly unsustainable and eventually there was a suspension in the sale of
foreign exchange by the Central Bank to the commercial banks and a sharp
depreciation of the Yeineni Rial. This, coupled with high liquidity expansion,
resulted in increasing pressure on prices. Since 1983, the Government has
been implementing a number of measures to reduce the fiscal deficit (about 10%
of GDP in 1986 and 22% in 1987) and to address its foreign exchange problem.
These measures include the introduction of a system to channel scarce foreign
exchange resources towards priority imports, such as essential foodst"ffs
(cereals and flour), intermediate goods, and raw materials. With respect to
the Government budget, total current expenditures fell from 55% of GDP in 1982
to 43% in 1987, while the expansion of domestic liquidity was reduced to 25%
per annum. Inflation, nevertheless, increased to about 20% in 1987.
Inflation, as measured by the CPI, exceeded interest rates in 1984-86. The
reduction of external resources, on which the economy remains highly dependent
to finance investment and growth, has caused investment to decline sharply,
from 25% of GDP in 1982 to 13% in 1987. However, the recent discovery of oil
and gas is expected to increase the country's foreign exchange resources in
1988 and to reduce the Government's budget deficit. Based on recent
projections, inflation is expected to fall below 10% by 1991.
Agriculture in the Economy
1.06     The share of ag iculture in GDP declined from 25% in 1982 to 21% in
1987 (Annex I, Table 2). This drop reflects both an actual decline in value-
added in agriculture during the 1981-84 period due to the drought, as well as
the more rapid growth of other sectors, particularly the oil sector. The
agriculture sector, which employs about 60% of the domestic labor force, is
constrained by a generally low rainfall and the consequent scarcity of water.
Of 20 million ha of land in YAR, about 1.35 million are presently under
cultivation, with 1.12 million ha rainfed (400 mm and above annually) and
about 0.23 million ha irrigated. An -dditional 3.5 million ha could support
agriculture if water were available. About 2.15 million ha of these
potentially arable lands are in low rainfall areas (less than 400 mm annually)



-3-
and are cultivated only once every 3-4 years, depending on the amount of
precipitation. The lack of a predictable supply of water for most rainfed
agricultural operations strongly influences farm management decisions.
Choices are based primarily on ensuring foou s.elf-sufficiency and minimizing
the risk of crop failure for individual farmers, even though this often
impairs production efficiency. In areas with assured water supplies,
production is increasingly oriented towards the market, although the objective
of food self-sufficiency for individual farm families still receives a very
high priority.
1.07     Agricultural Economic Policies & the Role of the Private Sector.  The YAR
Government has traditionally pursued liberal agricultural economic policies.
There are no price support programs in YAR except for cotton and minor
subsidies for seeds and seedlings. There are, however, important trade
restrictions: the import of apples, oranges, and bananas was banned in
19841' and only a parastatal company is authorized to import meat. The
scarcity of foreign exchange resulted in greatly restricting import licenses
for fertilizers, cereals other than wheat, and vegetables and fruits.
However, the Government has indicated that import restrictions are temporary
and will be eased as the foreign exchange situation improves.  Most of the
agricultural activities are carried out by the private sectors with the
Government essentially providing agricultural services and infrastructure for
agricultural and irrigation development. With the exception of two parastatal
organizations [the Yemen Agricultural Marketing Company (YAMCO), a subsidiary
of the Military Economic Corporation (MECO), and the General Organization for
Trade and Grain], the marketing of domestically produced wheat, fruits, and
vegetables is handled by the private sector, which is expected to maintain its
dominant role in marketing, transportation, storage, grading, and packaging.
1.08     As domestic food production has been insufficient to meet the demands
of a rapidly growing population and high income growth, substantial imports
have become necessary. Food and live animal imports have been rising and
amounted to about US$370 million in 1985 and 1987 (Annex I, Tables 1 and 3).
Cereals and flour have dominated agricultural imports since fruit imports were
banned in 1984, and little foreign exchange is being allocated for noncereal
imports. Agricultural exports have been insignificant, increasing from US$2.7
million in 1980 to only US$5 million in 1985. In recent years there has been
a change in the pattern of agricultural production: while wheat and maize
production have recovered to predrought levels, sorghum and millet production
for human consumption continues to decrease (1981: 635,000 tons; 1987: 477,000
tons) (Annex I, Table 4). The decreasing importance of sorghum grain and
millet reflects changing consumer preferences. In addition, sorghum has
become less attractive to grow because of the low import price of wheat. It
i8, however, being increasingly used as livestock feed. The production of
vegetables and fruits has been showing sustained rapid growth since 1980,
while the production of traditional crops such as barley and dry legumes has
declined. The growth in the production of fruits and vegetables has been
mainly due to income growth, a selective ban on the import of some fruits. and
the lack of foreign exchange to import other fruits and vegetables.
1/    The Government imposed a ban on the import of apples, oranges and
bananas in 1984 to encourage local production and save foreign
exchange. Prior to the ban, annual imports of these fruits totalled
95,000 tons.



-4-
Livestock and Poultry
1.09     Livestock in YAR is estimated at about one million cattle, 4.3
million sheep and goats, and some 60,000 camels. Animal production remains
traditional, with little or ..o selective breeding, and no controlled mating
season. Livestock care is mainly the province of women, whom the existing
extension services have barely reached. Animal production is also handicapped
by inadequate veterinary services and meager feed supplies. As a result,
livestock performance is far below its potential. Commercial poultry
production, which only started in 1978 and often involves large size
operations, has experienced very high growth.  In 1986, about 250 broiler
farms and 2 commercial layer producers were in operation, producing a total of
5,300 tons of broilers and 236 million eggs.
Supply and Demand
1.10     Regional agricultural development projects financed by IDA have
significantly contributed to increased agricultural production, particularly
of vegetables, fruits, sorghum and wheat. Total annual incremental production
at full development (2000) of all IDA-assisted projects undertaken in YAR
since 1973 is estimated to be over 300,000 tons of fruits and vegetables in
addition to nearly 100,000 tons of sorghum grain and 25,000 tons of wheat
(Annex I, Table 5). Some projects (Tihama I, II III, IV and SURDP I & II)
have or soon will attain full development, while others (Tihama V, Central
Highlands, Wadi Al-Jawf, SRADP, NORADEP, and ERADP) will reach full
development over the next decade. The increase in production of fruits and
vegetables in YAR from 574,000 tons in 1981 to 830,000 tons (including dates)
in 1987 (Annex I, Table 6) largely reflects the benefits of these projects to
date. This increase was stimulated by quantitative restrictions on the import
of fruits and vegetables (arising from the scarcity of foreign exchange and
the Government's import policy), high population growth rates of 3% per annum,
moderately rising per capita GNP, and urbanization. The production of grain
sorghum in 1987 (477,000 tons) is well below the predrought level of 635,000
tons in 1981, while wheat production increased from 70,000 tons to 100,000
tons during the same period.
1.11     Marketing problems are not anticipated for wheat since YAR imports
about 600,000 tons of wheat and flour annually. The annual production of
sorghum over the next decade (530,000 tons) is expected to remain less than
the predrought level. However, even if allowance is made for the decreasing
importance of sorghum grain for human consumption, excess supply is not
expected to become a major problem since farmers can shift production to other
crops. Sorghum fodder for animal production, for example, makes a significant
contribution to family income and nutrition. Under ERADP, sorghum production
is assumed constant in the project area, and certain crops (particularly
tomatoes and watermelons) would be available for export.
1.12     Despite the expected increase in fruit and vegetable production, a
recent study on the marketing of fruits and vegetables in YAR, commissioned by
the Tihama Development Authority, concluded that, assuming unchanged policies,
domestic demand at current real prices will exceed supply until 1990. This
trend is likely to continue until the year 2000. The mission estimates that
production of fruits and vegetables will increase from 0.83 million tons in



-5--
1987 (including potatoes) to at least 1.0 million tons in 2000, when the full
potential of all IDA-financed projects is expected to be realized (Annex I,
Table 6). FAO demand forecasts (Annex I, Table 7) estimate fruit and
vegetable consumption at about 1.02 million tons in 1990 (0.66 million tons of
vegetables and 0.36 million tons of fruits), rising to nearly 1.68 million
tons in the year 2000 (1.07 million tons of vegetables and 0.61 million tons
of fruits).
1.13     Even if more conservative demand estimates are used, excess supply is
not anticipated on an annual basis; however, the seasonality of supply could
cause marketing bottlenecks, lower prices, and higher losses. Project
analysis assumes that the financial and economic prices of fruits and
vegetables would decline by 25%-30% over five years, and the financial prices
of wheat and grain sorghum would fall by 30%-50% and converge with import
parity prices over seven years.
Marketing
1.14     Until recently, the agricultural economy of YAR was subsistence-
oriented, and only a small portion of surplus output reached the market. In
recent years, an increasing number of farmers in high rainfall or irrigated
areas have grown cash crops (fruits, vegetables, and qat), principally for the
domestic market. Although some inefficiencies exist within the marketing
system (mainly inadequate rural roads, storage, grading, and packing
facilities), it is fairly competitive. In general, domestically produced
agricultural commodities are traded freely. The marketing system in YAR has
been characterized by many small, widely dispersed producers selling directly
to individual merchants, retail shops, and consumers. The emergence of large
wholesale traders and retail outlets in cities and the development of
commercial farms suggest that the marketing system is moving towards higher
volume operations in the main cities. The Government's role is confined to
the construction of wholesale markets for fruits and vegetables in some of the
major cities. Nevertheless, to improve the marketing situation, the market
information system within the Ministry of Agriculture ana Fisheries (MAF)
should be strengthened. This would enable extension agents to advise farmers
on market prospects, appropriate varieties, and crop sequencing. The fruit
and vegetable marketing study conducted in 1986 recommended measures to
strengthen the managemen'. of major wholesale markets, improve market
intelligence, strengthen extension services for fruit and vegetable growers,
and improve packing. It further recommended that the Government's role in
marketing should include assisting the private sector by the establishment of
basic infrastructure at markets of national importance.
Main Constraints
1.15     Restrictions to agricultural growth in YAR include:
(a) institutional constraints; (b) poor water resources management; and
(c) the limited availability of fov'eign exchange with a resultant shortage of
agricultural inputs.
(a)    Institutional Constraints. The increasing commercialization of
the agricultural sector has been accompanied by a rapid growth
in demand for institutional services, notably extension,



-6-
research and credit. The lack of managerial and skilled
manpower and weak institutional performance have constrained the
expansion of these services. The establishment of
sector-specific training institutions, notably the agricultural
faculty of the University of Sana'a, and the ongoing local and
overseas training and technical assistance efforts are expected
to partially satisfy demand, particularly for skilled manpower.
Actual or proposed improvements in three principal areas of
institutional development are discussed below:
(i)    Extension and research have been the most effective in
dealing with these constraints. Foreign assistance
programs and technical assistance are already supporting
the development of extension services in most of the Tihama
Plain, the Southern and Central Regions and parts of the
Eastern Region. The impact of these recently established
extension services is now being felt in the sector.
Research is carried out by the Agricultural Research
Authority (ARA), supported by IDA Credit 1259-YAR, with the
main focus on the Tihama and Southern and Central areas of
the country; less attention has been paid to the Northern
and Eastern Regions. Provisions included in the recently
approved Northern Region Agricultural Development Project
(NORADEP) are geared to strengthen research efforts in the
Northern Region. The proposed project would focus on
strengthening research in the Eastern Region.
(ii)    Past efforts to improve the performance of MAF have had
limited success. To enhance its effectiveness in directing
agricultural policy and developing and overseeing the
implementation of development programs, the Ministry has
delegated most of its functions to five existing and newly
established area development units and authorities.1'
These entities would perform MAF's functions in the five
regions into which the country is divided. This strategy
is intended to mobilize the strength and experience of
existing area authorities in supporting MAF's functions,
while necessitating a considerable tightening of MAF's
control over policy, regulation, monitoring and
implementation. To strengthen the Ministry's central
coordinating role, directors of regional area authorities
would report directly to the Minister. Limited manpower
resources would be concentrated on planning and budgeting
functions. The proposed National Agricultural Development
Project (FY90) would focus on the institution building of
MAF (particularly for sectoral planning, research,
extension and training) and on the consolidation and
further strengthening of activities under the ongoing
regional development projects.
1/   Tihama Development Authority, Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit,
Central Highlands Unit, Eastern Region Agricultural Development
Authority, and Northern Regional Development Authority.
, . qI-



-7--
(iii)    Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB). CACB, which was
established in 1982 when two existing credit institutions were
merged, is the primary source of institutional credit for
agriculture in YAR. CACB operates through 16 branches and 5
subbranches throughout the country. The volume of total
agricultural lending has doubled from YRls 93 million in 1982 to
YRls 186 million in 1986. CACB's financial statements register
a profit. This profit derives mainly from nonlending sources,
such as trading activities and income from LCCD deposits which
are noninterest bearing accounts. CACB's institutional
development has been weak; efforts under the Agricultural Credit
Project (Cr. 1308-YAR) to improve the institutional performance
of CACB have met with limited results so far. With CACB the
primary source of agricultural credit, the improvement of its
performance is essential to the development of agriculture. The
volume of agricultural lending dropped from YRls 186 million in
1986 to YRls 145 million in 1987 mainly due to foreign exchange
restrictions and input availability. This has meant a reduced
demand for credit and a significant decline in trading volume
for CACB. Loan administration costs are about 12%-13% of
outstanding loans. The interest rate in agriculture has two
aspects:  (a) preferential rates for the Eastern Region (7%)''
and low interest rates in agriculture (10%). Lower rates in the
Eastern Region are decreeed by the President of YAR and are
based on socio-economic considerations: The semi-nomadic nature
of the population with little or no previous exposure to
commercial lending. The temporary nature of this rate has been
confirmed by Government. The importance of low interest rates
in agriculture has diminished recently as a result of projected
lower inflation rates (15% in 1989, 10 % in 1990, and 8% in 1991
and 1992). Discussions regarding the interest rate would be
pursued with YAR officials within the context of macroeconomic
dialogue. The loan recovery rate dropped from 69% in 1986 to
55% in 1987 mainly due to the fall in loan recovery rates in the
Eastern Region (where outstanding loans account for 22% of
CACB's total loan portfolio). The low loan recovery rates in
the Eastern Region are largely due to CACB's inexperience and
new presence in tribal areas where agricultural lending is not
customary. CACB's financial position continues to deteriorate
as a result of the decreasing volume of lending and trading, low
service charges, low and falling recovery rates, and the high
cost of loan administration. These issues are being addressed
under Credit 1308-YAR. It is expected that the action plan for
improving loan recovery rates, agreed with CACB (para. 2.21),
and the easing of the foreign exchange situation will improve
CACB's financial position.
1/   To encourage farming in the newly developing border areas of Marib and
Al-Jawf, the Government has reduced the interest rate in this area by 3%
as a temporary measure.
3 1 28C



-8-
(b)    Water Resources Management Constraints. The potential for
agricultural development in YAR depends primarily on the
efficient management of water resources. Surface and
groundwater policy, however, is not specifically articulated;
rather it exists as a mixture of Islamic legal principles and
tribal customs. Surface water rights permit the first in line
to take what is legitimately required, allowing less water for
downstream farmers.  Groundwater rights are common to land
ownership where landowners legally have limited drilling and
pumping rights. The Government is therefore unable to husband
the country's limited groundwater resources. This, and the fact
that water planning has given less than adequate consideration
to agro/economic and geologic factors, has resulted in the
inefficient/unsustainable use of limited water resources. In
addition, the available groundwater is not used efficiently due
to poor conveyance and application techniques. The results of
this poor management are unnecessary water loss, high pumping
costs, and generally low irrigation efficiency. Irrigation
development should be based on in-depth studies of water
resources in all regions in YAR. The Government of YAR is
conscious of the severity of the problem and has established a
high level Water Council to coordinate action at the national
level. Also, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is
coordinating support from various donors to assist the
(-overnment in the formulation of an appropriate water resources
management plan.
(c)    ForeignExchange Constraints. Constrained by the shortage of
foreign exchange, the Government has imposed a ban on the import
of selected fruits and has restricted the availability of
foreign exchange for the import of certain fruits and
vegetables. These restrictions have had a noticeable effect on
the production of some fruits, including bananas, papayas,
oranges and apples, and many vegetables. In order to provide
continuous incentives to fruit and vegetable growers, the
Government intends to continue these restrictions for the
present time. The lack of foreign exchange has also restricted
imports of agricultural inputs, notably fertilizer, pesticides,
and, to a smaller extent, machinery. The Government lacks a
clear policy regarding the priority of agricultural inputs in
receiving foreign exchange allocations. It has indicated,
however, that it will endeavor in the future to make foreign
exchange more readily available to the agricultural sector. It
is expected that future oil exports will substantially ease the
shortage of foreign exchange and, hence, reduce the prevailing
input shortages. The foreign exchange situation has recently
improved somewhat as evidenced by the increased availability of
fertilizers through MAF and the private sector. As of September
1988, 28,000 tons have already been imported.
Government Sector Strategy
1.16          The Government's strategy for the sector has been detailed in
the Third Five-Year Plan (TFYP) for the period 1987-1991. The main objectives
of the Plan are:
as e-r



-9-
(i)    to improve the planning/implementation capacity of MAF;
(ii)    to improve food self-sufficiency and increase agricultural
exports wherever possible;
(iii)    to modernize agricultural production techniques and increase
value added;
(iv)    to reduce qat production; and
(v)    to increase the supply of agricultural raw materials to the
domestic manufacturing industry.
With the exception of item (iv), these objectives appear realistic. The
growth of gross output of the sector, which amounted to 2.4% during the Second
Five-Year Plan, is expected to increase to 3.4% per annum. The area under
cultivation is expected to increase by 1.3%, and yields by 2.1% annually. The
strategy to achieve these growth rates focuses on:
)    improving agricultural services throughout the country,
particularly research and extension;
(ii)    improving water resources management;
(iii)    expanding the availability of agricultural inputs;
(iv)    reducing desertification through sand dune fixation;
( v)    modernizing the livestock sector by upgrading breeding and
disease control;
(vi)    controlling groundwater use and introducing efficient irrigation
methods;
(vii)    improving marketing of agricultural products by providing market
and storage facilities; and
(viii)    encouraging private, mixed and cooperative agricultural
enterprises.
1.17     Total investment outlays of TFYP amount to YRls 3,900 million
(US$400 million) for agriculture (10% of the total outlay), of which 34% would
be financed by the Government. The Government's development strategy appears
largely sound; however, not all of its objectives or strategy goals might be
attainable with equal success. Notably, implementation of measures to control
groundwater use and reduce qat production might face stiff resistance. In
addition, competition from imported wheat and higher returns for vegetables
and fruits do not favor a rapid increase in foodgrain production. Policies to
encourage a rapid increase in irrigated grain production on mechanized farms
appear ill-advised, as local production costs might substantially exceed world
market prices and alternative crops might have a higher rate of return.



-10-
IDA's Role in the Sector
1.18     Strategy.  IDA's strategy in the agriculture sector has been to help
raise agricultural productivity and improve farmers' living standards by
financing development projects which emphasize the institucional development
of agricultural services (extension, research, credit and irrigation) and
infrastructure. IDA projects account for a large segment of total public
sector investment, and IDA involvement has attracted substantial cofinancing
resources.
1.19     IDA's focus on institution building and infrastructure was
facilitated in the 1970s and early 1980s by the Government's traditional open
market economy and its generally appropriate incentive system. However,
recent measures to protect some parts of the agricultural sector, restrict
foreign exchange available for the import of essential inputs, and maintain a
relatively inflexible foreign exchange and interest rate regime are a matter
of concern. The Government has repeatedly indicated that most of these
measures reflect prevailing foreign exchange shortages, which are likely to
become less constraining, and that it has no intention of departing from its
open market policy.
1.20     In view of the apparently temporary nature of most of these policies,
and of the Government's intention of making more foreign exchange available
for input imports, it appears prudent, for the time being, to maintain IDA's
focus on institutional development, notably of agricultural services and of
MAF. This will facilitate the completion of nationwide agricultural research
and extension services and strengthen credit delivery while enhancing the
import uf agricultural inputs. Simultaneously, a review of sector policies,
including those related to interest, foreign exchange rate levels, import
bans, and food self-sufficiency, should continue as part of the country's
macroeconomic dialogue.
1.21     Completed and Ongoing IDA-assisted Projects.  IDA has, to date,
assisted in financing 16 agricultural projects in YAR, of which 7 (the Tihama
I, II and IV, SURDP I, SURDP II, Grain Storage and Processing, Livestock
Credit and Processing) have been completed. In general, these projects have
been successful in achieving their main objectives, particularly the
establishment and strengthening of institutions in extension and research.
Success is also due, however, to the Government's increased participation in
the sector via an increase in investment and recurrent costs. In the case of
Tihama IV, the project performance credit report questions the appropriateness
of building permanent water diversion structures where water flow is
characterized by a high peak and little or no base flow. The report implies
that greater emphasis of groundwater development would be more appropriate.
1.22     Ongoing IDA-assisted agricultural projects are making satisfactory
progress, although some start-up difficulties were experienced due to delays
in the selection of consultants.  Thj ongoing Fisheries Project (Cr. 1025-YAR)
has made good progress with its infrastructure components but has been
proceeding slowly with the introduction of a fishery extension and the
execution of the technical assistance program. Four other agricultural
projects: Agricultural Research and Development (Cr. 1259-YAR), Agricultural



-11-
Credit (Cr. 1308-YAR), the Central Highlands Agricultural Development
(Cr. 1453-YAR), and the Wadi Al-Jawf Project (Cr. 1584-YAR) are at different
stages of implementation. The Tihama V Project (Cr. 1667-YAR) and the
Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project (SRADP) (Cr. 1772-YAR) are
in the start-up stage. NORADEP (Cr. 1886-YAR) was signed on August 4, 1988.
Difficulty in finalizing cofinancing arrangements, delays in ratification of
documents, and fulfillment of conditions for credit effectiveness have emerged
as serious delaying factors in some of the recently approved IDA credits.
1.23     Wadi Al-Jawf Agricultural Dev lopment Project (Cr. 1584-YAR) was
initiated in 1986 and is designed to provide, inter alia, improvement in
irrigation infrastructure, a project implementation unit, agricultural support
services, construction of buildings and feeder roads, and development studies
in the Al-Jawf Governorate of the Eastern Region. The project has experienced
delays in implementation, primarily due to financial (foreign and local) and
managerial issues, as well as tribal friction relating to new settlements and
delays in rehabilitating the water control systems. Following intensive
supervision, and the placement of the project under the overall
responsibilities of ERADA, chaired by an experienced and capable chairman, the
project status has improved. The foreign financial issues have been resolved
with the cofinancier (Arab Fund); ratification has been completed and project
funds are now being disbursed. Appointment of key staff (local and foreign)
has taken place. Agreements between the two main tribes on water sharing of
Al Hazam and Al Khalaq spate irrigation schemes has been secured and designs
for the rehabilitation of irrigation structures has been completed. Some key
project facilities are under construction and others are under procurement. A
study to determine the rehabilitation requirements of existing wells is
ongoing. Design and tender documents for feeder roads have been prepared and
construction is expected to start in July 1989. The extension program has
been initiated. Despite these improvements, however, some unresolved issues
remain. These include the removal of temporary earth diversion structures
involving tribal conflicts, the completion of housing facilities and the
transfer of staff to the project site. The September 1988 supervision mission
worked out a detailed action plan for resolving these issues with project
officials. Progress is being closely monitored. Another development that
merits watching is the Government's preparation of a study under the Sanaa
Basin Project for the construction of a dam in the catchment area of the
Al-Jawf Project. This is likely to affect the Al Kharid scheme. The Al-Jawf
project authority is maintaining close contact with the Sanaa Basin Autnority,
and the development status of the dam will be regularly communicated to IDA.
1.24     Lessons Learned.  The Project Performance and Audit Reports (PPAR)
for the Tihama I (Cr. 376-YAR), SURDP I (Cr. 545-YAR) and Tihama II
(Cr. 805-YAR) Projects are generally positive on the achievements,
particularly the establishment of organizations and extension services, and
the implementation of physical infrastructures. The PPAR for the Tihamfa IV
(Cr. 978-YAR) project was critical of the investment made for surface water
improvement. The report indicated that, unlike well irrigation, the surface
irrigation component suffered from a low economic rate of return. Its
cropping pattern and cropping intensity were below appraisal expectations.
Moreover, these reports, as well as the report on the Grain Storage and
Processing Project (Cr. 636-YAR) and the Livestock Credit and Processing
Project (Cr. 662-YAR), highlight the principal difficulties in YAR. They are:



-12-
(a) shortage of trained technical and administrative staff; (b) escalazions in
project costs due to delayed execution; (c) ineffectiveness of monitoring and
evaluation programs; (d) weak coordinatior. between research and extension;
(e) absence of O&M services; and (f) delays in mobilization of the newly
established implementing agencies. Institutions in YAR have been found to be
weak, both technically and administratively, particularly after project
completion. As a result, allocations for O&M are not utilized efficiently or
are inadequate, and M&E becomes much less effective. The lessons learned from
completed and ongoing projects have been taken into account in formulating the
scope and design of subsequent projects, including the proposed project. The
proposed Eastern Region Agricultural Develoroment Project (ERADP) would provide
technical assistance and training, strong   ikages between research and
extension, as well as regular O&M and monitoring and evaluation services.
Also, the mobilization of implementation agencies would be expedited by
setting up realistic deadlines and assistance through PPF advance, where
needed, and by the timely appointment of consultants and the preparation of
procurement documents.
11. THE PROJECT AREA AND DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL
A. Physical Features
2.01     Location and Topograph . The Eastern Region encompasses the
provincial boundaries of the Marib and Al-Jawf Governorates (Map, IBRD
No. 20584). It is bordered to the north and east by the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia (SA), to the east and southeast by the People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen (PDRY), to the south by the Al-Beida Governorate, and to the west by the
Sana'a and Dhamar Governorates. The project area consists primarily of the
eastern slopes of the central mountainous region (2,000-3,000 m above mean sea
level (amsl)) and the Adhanah and Al-Jawf wadis, or streams, which drain into
the eastern plateau (about 1,200 meter amsl). The total land area is about
30,000 kmi2, of which about 90,000 ha are cultivable with spate and well
water. About 6,000 ha would benefit directly from the recently constructed
Marib Dam (para. 2.06). Rainfed agriculture is limited to about 3,000 ha
scattered in the high elevations.
2.02     Climate.  Climatic data for the region are available for only a few
years. Studies of the Al-Jawf Agricultural Development Project and the Marib
Irrigation Scheme have been based on analysis of records from neighboring
areas (Najran in Saudi Arabia and Wadi Beihan in PDRY). Based on data from
meteorological sv.ations in the project area, rainfall is mainly in the periods
from April to June and from September to October. It ranges from 50 to 100mm
in the plateau and from 100 to 400 mm in the mountains. The temperatures are
typical of semidesert conditions, with wide diurnal variations, but favorable
for the production of a range of crops. Relative humidity is low and mean
temperatures range from 7°C to 2500 in December and from 250C to 420C
in summer (June - August).
2.03     Soils.  In the wide wadi basins of Al-Jawf and Marib, deep alluvial
soils have been deposited from upstream mountainous areas. Soils are
relatively fertile, but they have very low organic matter and nitrogen



-13-
content. They are often calcareous and have a high pH, leading to induced
deficiencies in phosphorus and micronutrients. Salinity and alkalinity are
generally low and water holding capacity is good (20% to 252).
B. Water Resources
2.04     Surface Water.  The region is served by the two main catchments of
Wadi Al-Jawf (14,000 km2) and Wadi Adhanah (10,000 km2), and by a number
of smaller catchments (Wadis Harib, Jubah, Khabb, Silbah, etc.) (Map, IBRD
No. 20585). These wadis have their source in mountainous areas to the west
where annual rainfall is up to 400 mm. Wadi Al-Jawf is supplied with a
perennial flow from two main tributaries, Wadi Al Kharid and Wadi Madhab.
Wadi Adhanah is supplied from the catchment area of Jabal Balak where the
Marib Dam has been constructed. The average rainfall at the catchment area is
280 mm with average annual runoff of 200 million M3. Surface water
resources of other catchments (Harib, Jubah, Khabb, Silbah) have not yet been
studied. However, spate flow can usually be counted on once or twice a year.
2.05     Groundwater.  Because of the low rainfall and limited surface
water, groundwater resources in the region are very important. Nevertheless,
the potential is not fully known. Studies currently being undertaken for the
Marib Dam command area, with assistance from the Government of the
Netherlands, would improve the data base for groundwater resources in the
project area. There is no inventory of wells for the region. Based on crop
area data, however, it is estimated that about 8,500 wells exist with yields
ranging between 5 and 10 l/s. Preliminary results of the water resource study
for Wadi Adhanah indicate that the number of wells downstream of the Marib Dam
was about 2,000 in 1987. About one-third of these are located within the area
to be served by the Marib Scheme. Most of the others are located in adjacent
areas expected to benefit from improved groundwater recharge. The groundwater
overall conveyance efficiency is 40% but would be increased to an average of
52X. Irrigation improvement under the proposed project would be mainly due
to: (a) improved hydraulic conditions of canals (lining, realignment,
rehabilitation) and (b) improved field efficiency due to land levelling and
on-farm development.
2.06     Marib Dam.  The Marib Dam, financed by the Abu Dhabi Government at
a cost of about US$100 million, including primary and secondary canals, was
first conceived as a flood control structure. Following design of the main
dam and spillway, the purpose of the dam was changed to include flocd control
and storage for regulated surface irrigation. Accordingly, the distribution
system was designed so that water could be discharged into the wadi and then
diverted downstream into the primary canal system. The objective was to
irrigate 6,500 ha. The dam is 38 meters high with conduit outlet for release
of up to 35 m3/s of water; it has a saddle spillway for flood release and
two diversion structures. It is designed for an average annual inflow of
200 Mm3, a maximum storage of 400 Mm3, and a maximum safe water level of
1,214.3 mecers amsl corresponding to 190 Mm3 of storage.  At full
development it is estimated that for a ten-year average annual inflow of
200 Mm , the yield for irrigation purposes at dam outlet is 149.7 Mm3.
This yield represents about 912 of the total baseline surface water demand of



-14-
the proposed cropping pattern of 164 Mm3 and 75% uf the average flow at
200 Mm3.  The simulated model also reveals that the annual water release at
the secondary outlet is about 64 Mm3.  This parameter has been used to
determine the cropping pattern and to estimate the water tariff and the areas
that can be irrigated by surface water.
2.07     The dam and the conveyance and distribution system, referred to as
the Marib Scheme, are under construction. The dam, its appurtenant structures,
diversion structures from Wadi Adhanah, and primary canals have already been
built. Upon construction of the reservoir, the few settlers have been
compensated in kind (wells and pumps) and settled downstream. Design and work
on secondary canals is well advanced. The contracts let for designing
(Electrowatt) and for the construction (Dogus) of the secondary canals,
including offtakes to tertiary blocks, stipulate completion in 18 months from
February 10, 1988. Taking the current slight implementation delays into
account, the work is expected to be finished by end of December 1989.
Tertiary canals would be built by the beneficiaries and by ERADA as an
integral part of the proposed project. Hydrological studies on the dam
catchment area and on the recharge of the aquifer downstream of the dam are
being carried out by the Government, with assistance from the Government of
the Netherlands. This would continue in coordination with ERADA. The overall
conveyance efficiency of the system is 20%. This is broken down as follows:
(a) from the dam to the diversion structure (wadi bed) = 50%; (b) primary
canals = 95%; (c) secondary canals = 90%; (d) tertiary canals = 85%; and
(e) field efficiency = 55%. The 50% conveyance efficiency from the dam to the
diversion structures is a realistic estimate based on knowledge of the Wadi
bed and the recent monitoring of water flow by project authorities.
Monitoring would be continued on a regular basis and as part of the O&M
service under the proposed project; adjustments, if necessary, would be made
during project implementation. A core O&M service for the Marib Scheme has
been established under the overall responsibilities of ERADA. Some provisions
for strengthening the service (30 staff months of foreign training for local
staff and 14 staff months of consultant services) have been made under the
Northern Region Agricultural Development Project. The consultancy is designed
to assist the Government in the formulation of a detailed operational manual
and in the planning and implementing of the training program, which is
expected to begin by November 1988 under PPF No. P-454-YAR. Further
strengthening of the service would be provided for under the proposed project.
2.08     The following concerns regarding the dam, its appurtenant structures
and the distribution system were raised during appraisal and appropriate
actions taken to address them.
(a)    The first concerns safety; the dam has been examined by a
specialist, with particular attention paid to its structural
design and operating procedures. Technical experts representing
IDA, the Government of YAR, the Abu Dhabi Fund, and the
Engineering Consultants agree on the stability of the dam in the
normal operating range. However, to further increase the safety
of the dam and its appurtenant structures, it -as agreed to
install a filter blanket at the toe of the dam to protect
against seepage and potential piping, and to enlarge the
stilling basin to improve the discharge capacity of the dam.



-15-
These works are estimated to cost about US$350,000, and
sufficient funds for implementing them have be n approved by the
Government of YAR outside the scope of the project. Before
credit effectiveness, Government would enter into a contract
satisfactory to IDA for the execution of these works
(para. 6.02).
(b)    The second concern is the damage to the primary BN canal from
the flooding of an adjacent wadi in February 1988. The
September 1988 postappraisal mission reviewed two preliminary
proposals prepared on behalf of the Government by Electrowatt,
the site engineering consultant firm, for repairing and
preventing a recurrence of the damage.   Preliminary cost
estimates are about US$0.8 million. It was found that one of
the proposals was technically acceptable but lacked the
necessary details, particularly for the flood control
protection. The Abu Dhabi Fund has agreed to finance the
studies/designs needed for the repair of the BN canal damage and
the flood control measures to prevent its recurrence, and
Electrowatt is preparing the necessary designs for restoration
works. Government has allocated YR 10 million in ERADA's 1989
budget outside the scope of the project to complete the repair
of the damage of the BN canal by August 1989 and its flood
control measures by February 1990.
2.09     Water Quality.  Surface water flow, generated by runoff from the
watersheds or from saturated soils, and underground sources of water are of
suitable quality for irrigation and domestic use. As farmers begin to adopt
improved production technology, however, the use of fertilizers will increase;
in the long run, nitrates may contaminate the aquifer. This probable risk
would be assessed and equilibrium concentration of nitrates would be
determined under the proposed project, taking into consideration current
studies of the aquifer and future levels of fertilizer use. Recommendations
would be made on how to maintain the equilibrium of nitrate concentration at
an acceptably low level and would be implemented by the Agricultural Research
Authority (ARA) (paras. 3.16 and 3.41).
2.10     Water Rights.  In spate irrigated areas, farmers located upstream
traditionally have priority to divert and use water as needed, provided they
do not abuse this right. Water rights are currently governed by collective
written agreements for use among farmer beneficiaries of the same bahiya
(barrage), and between one bahiya and another. The construction of the Marib
Dam has somewhat altered these traditional rights. However, this is not
expected to pose a major problem because: (a) regulated water flow would be
available on a year-round basis and would reach more beneficiaries; (b) water
right agreements would be sought among beneficiaries and between beneficiaries
and ERADA for operation of the water distribution system, at the tertiary
block level; and (c) collective units of beneficiaries ofteiL belong to the
same tribe. Furthermore, the proposed advisory council would facilitate the
resolution of any potential tribal conflicts arising from water rights
(para. 4.09).



-16-
C. Socioeconomic Features
2.11     PopulationandLaborForce. Historically, the Eastern Region,
including the Marib Scheme command area, is seminomadic, dominated by local
tribes who have the right of individual ownership to cultivated and pasture
lands with clear boundaries. During the dry season, the tribes move to
collectively owned pasture lands in the hills while maintaining their
individual dwellings in the irrigated areas. Extrapolation from the 1986
census establishes the current population of the region at about 220,000
inhabitants (94% rural) who live in 550 villages or hamlets (388 in Marib and
162 in Al-Jawf). The number of households is about 34,000 (19,500 in Marib
and 14,500 in Al-Jawf). The average rural household size is six members with
only about 2.1 member equivalent available for agricultural work on a daily
basis throughout the year (0.4 represents livestock care). Assuming 250 work
days during the year and taking into account the seasonality of labor demand,
the remaining 1.7 workers are able to work only 702 of the year. This
proportion could be increased to 80% with perennial irrigation and changes in
cropping pattern.
2.12     LandTenure and FarmSi2e.  According to the 1983 MAF census,
virtually all land in the project area is privately owned and almost all farms
are owner-occupied and managed. For the Marib and Al-dawf Governorates,
available statistics indicate a total of 18,500 holdings; about 87,000 ha have
an average holding size of about 5 ha. A survey of che Marib Scheme command
area indicates a total of 1,600 land holdings, covering an area of about 8,000
ha (6,500 ha are within reach of the surface water distribution system; about
1,500 ha, which mainly depend on well irrigation, are located adjacent to the
system and benefit from its recharge capacity to the aquifer). About 20% of
these holdings have less than 2 ha; 25% have between 2 and 5 ha; 25% have 5 to
10 ha; 17% have 10 to 20 ha; and 13% have more than 20 ha.  Many of the larger
holdings are located in areas which have been abandoned because of sand
invasion. Although the command area is under tribal domain (eight main
tribes), cultivated fields benefitting from the scheme, both surface and
groundwatcr, are owned by individual families who bave the right to cultivate
and to transfer this right through inheritance or sale.
2.13     Education. The illiteracy rate in the project area is still very
high (92.57). The number of schools in the area is increasing, as is the
number of enrolled students, but the supply of educated youths with a
secondary education remains limited. The number of Yemeni university students
in agriculture (686) and engineering (1,849) indicates that the present
shortage of qualified personnel is slowly becoming less acute.
2.14     Role of Women. Women occupy an important role in the agricultural
development of YAR, as well as in the project area. Field observations
indicate that, in addition to the usual home activities (cooking, washing,
child care, food processing, etc.), women also carry out substantial field
work in agriculture and livestock. Female labor is mainly used for harvesting
alfalfa and other agricultural operations, except land preparation. Women are
also responsible for animal husbandry. Because of the more conservative
nature of the social system in the project area and the sensitivity of women's



-17-
issues under tribal social systems, the project would aira at initiating a
modest Women in Development Program, concentrated mainly in the Harib and
Al-Jubah districts of the Marib Governorate where participation in the program
is more likely.
D. Organization and Agricultural Support Systems
2.15     Existing Administrative Setup. The project area falls within the
administrative jurisdiction of the governorates of Marib and Al-Jawf, in the
towns of Marib and Al Hazm, respectively. MAF's directorates of agriculture,
set up in the governorate headquarters, have so far provided minimal
agricultural services. This has been mainly due to insufficient funds, the
shortage of technical staff and a lack of transport facilities. Under the
ongoing Wadi Al-Jawf Project (Cr. 1584-YAR), which covers the Wadi Al-Jawf
Governorate, provisions have been made for strengthening the agricultural
services. After some delay, project implementation is now under way
(para. 1.23). In the Marib Governorate, on the other hand, a small cadre of
staff has been employed for the development of the Marib Scheme. This unit
also requires strengthening and would be covered under the proposed project.
2.16     Agricultural Research.  Small scale research has been carried out by
ARA on rented land in the project area, particularly in the Marib Scheme
command area. To date the emphasis has been on wheat variety verification,
and encouraging results have been obtained. In the absence of any facilities
in the region, these research activities have been conducted from ARA's
headquarters at Dhamar. Some provisions were made under the Al-Jawf project
to establish research facilities in the Al-Jawf Governorate. These, which
include the construction of a research substation and some office space and
housing facilities, are in the early stages of implementation. Also, the
Government has agreed to provide the necessary budgetary allocations to ARA to
appoint four research officers and seven research assistants to be placed in
Marib before June 1989. Further strengthening of research capabilities on a
regional basis would also be provided for under the proposed project.
2.17     Agricultural Extension.  MAF already has some agricultural extension
operations in the regior.. In Al-Jawf, the service is being established under
the Al-Jawf Project. Provisions include staffing, staff training, and the
construction and equipping of seven centers. Currently, nine extension agents
and two extension supervisors, mostly expatriate experts assisted by a few
subject matter specialists (SMS), are operating in the project area. In the
Marib Governorate, the service consists of the Director of Agriculture, six
extension agents and one expatriate horticulturist. The extension programs in
both Governorates deal mostly with wheat, fruits and vegetables; they
concentrate on improving varieties, fertilizer recommendations, planting
dates, irrigation layouts, plant protection, and orchard establishment and
management. Extension successes to date have been largely the work of
expatriate experts. Local extension staff require more training in subject
matter as well as in extension methodology. Staff, particularly SMS, are
needed to provide the extension agents with the necessary technical support.
Also, linkage with research is almost nonexistent. More vehicles, inputs,



-18-
and appropriate machinery for field demonstrations, as well as housing and
office facilities, are also necessary. These would be provided for under the
proposed project.
2.18     Nurseries.  A 10 ha nursery is being developed for the Al-Jawf
Governorate under the Al-Jawf Project. MAP has a 5 ha nursery at Marib
headquarters for the production of fruit trees and forest species (capacity of
about 100,000 plants). The staff of the MAF Agricultural Affairs Deparfment
at Marib are already assisting six ?rogressive farmers in establishing
nurseries. These farmers, with some assistance to increase production and
ensure quality of output, would be able to satisfy the entire demand created
by the project. To assist in nursery production and in the upgrading of
orchards, the project would establish a mother tree orchard at the Government
Farm at Al Shabwan.
2.19     VeterinaryServices.  Veterinary services in tne region have been run
by MAF on a very small scale. Recently the British Government has provided
some help in the form of medicine and staff Lraining. However, the service
which focuses on vaccination against sheep pox and endo-and ectoparasite
treatment is constrained, particularly by a shortage of staff and transport
facilities. Considering the importance of livestock in the region, especially
small ruminants, the present service needs to be strengthened. The proposed
project would provide for such strengthening (para. 3.11).
2.20     Inputs.  Agricultural chemicals, seeds and machinery are available
in the project area. In addition, engines, pumps and pipes for well
irrigation are sold by local suppliers. At present, however, chemical
fertilizer is not available. The use of fertilizers and agricultural
chemicals in the Marib Governorate is very limited, mainly due to the
unfamiliarity of most farmers with fertilizers, but also due to the shortage
of foreign exchange. Once demand is established, fertilizer is expected to
become more readily available. Also, the recent availability of fertilizers
at the national level is expected to spill over to the project area. Since
fertilizer requirements of the project area during the six-year project
implementation period are not expected to be large (about 3,000 tons), the
project makes no provision for import of inputs.
2.21     Agricultural Credit.  CACB has operated in the project area since July
1985 through two branches -- Marib and Al-Jawf. About YRls 90 million,
mostly for wells and tractors, have been disbursed to about 800 farmers during
the period July 1985 to December 1987. Credit has outpaced other agricultural
support services, resulting, in many instances, in the underutilization of
financed facilities. Due to CACB's inexperience in the project area and its
recent establishment in tribal areas not familiar with agricultural lending,
loan recovery rates have been low (15% in Marib and 7% in Al-Jawf in 1987).
An action plan to improve loan recovery rates has recently been agreed upon
with CACB under the ongoing Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1308-YAR). The
main features of the plan are as follows: (i) identifying delinquent loans
and rescheduling deserving cases on a case-by-case basis; (ii) segregating
recovery rates by branch and size of loan and aging delinquent loans;
(iii) setting targets for loan recovery by branch and supervising borrowers
more intensively; (iv) closely monitoring operations of Marib and Al Jawf
branches; (v) investigate the possibility of establishing a special fund for



-19-
the Eastern Region, which would be administered by CACB otl behalf of
Government; (vi) costing of administrative expenses by branch; and
(vii) preparation of a five-year staffing and financial plan. During
negotiations, the chairman of CACB inidcated that (i) the plan for improving
loan recovery would be launched in January, 1989, (ii) discussions are
on-going with Government officials concerning the special fund for the Eastern
Region, and (iii) CACB will evaluate personnel at the branch level and
intensify training when needed to improve efficiency and reduce loan
administration costs.
2.22     Marketing.  The area is served by a relatively efficient network of
traditional markets through which the bulk of marketable surplus is sold.
Cereals are sold mainly to private traders and in limited amounts to the
General Corporation for Grain and Trade. Fruits and vegetables are sold at
farmgate to private traders, in village markets, to retail shops, or to
YAMCO. During the peak season, some farmers sell their produce in wholesale
markets in Sana'a. Increased production of fruits and vegetables and
seasonality of supply, could result in some marketing bottlenecks. To improve
the marketing situation, an intelligence system within MAF should be
established and strongly linked with agricultural research and the extension
services. Agents within ERADA could then advise farmers on market prospects
and research findings regarding optimal dates of planting, crop varieties,
etc.
2.23     Rural Organization.  The development of rural infrastructure is
carried out by Local Councils for Cooperative Development (LCCD). At the
Governorate level, each LCCD has a democratically elected administrative board
comprising a Chairman, Secretary General and Treasurer. At the national
level, the LCCDs are represented by the Confederation of Local Councils for
Cooperative Development (CLCCD). LCCDs in the project area have been
established only recently and are still financially and technically weak.
Their budgets, which mainly come from Zakat collection and which is low in the
Region, are not sufficient to improve or maintain infrastructure development.
This is expected to improve, however slowly, as Zakat collection improves. It
is expected that the Engineering Department of ERADA would provide the LCCDs
with technical assistance in matters related to infrastiuctura development.
2.24     Infrastructure.  The main access to the region is by an asphalt road
from Saia'a to Safer via Marib.  A secondary road is under con.truction from
this road to Hazm Al-Jawf. Roads are under construction from Marib to Harib
via Al Jubah. There are also plans for the construction or upgrading of roads
from Hazm to other agricultural areas in the Al-Jawf Governorate, and from
Marib to Sirwah and from there to Sana'a. All other roads are rough tracks
only, but all villages can be reached by four-wheel-drive vehicles. Two
airports (Al-Jawf and Marib) exist in the project area with a weekly and
semiweekly connection. to Sana'a, respectively. The Government of YAR is
providing safe drinking water facilities through CLCCD. A number of such
facilities have already been constructed (52 in Al-Jawf and 15 in Marib).
More are needed, particularly in the Marib Governorate. Safe drinking water,
which is outside the scope of the proposed project, is being addressed by the
Government, with foreign assistance.
a 1 28C



-20-
2.25     Wadi Al Jawf Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1584-YAR). This
project, which is cofinanced by IDA and the Arab Fund, aims at improving
agriculture in the Wadi Al-Jawf Governorate by increasing the use of available
land and water resources through suitable technology, and by upgrading the
irrigation infrastructure in the Governorate. The project would rehabilitate
perennial stream flow irrigation on about 3,100 ha and spate irrigation on
2,050; it would develop 1,650 ha with tubew lUs and introduce extension,
research and animal health services. Forty-five kilometers of feeder roads
would be constructed. The project aims to bring direct production benefits to
1,700 farm households and ancillary benefits to some 50,000 inhabitants
through infrastructure components. The project became operative in October
1986. After initial delays and following intensive project supervision, the
status has improved and the project is now progressing under the newly
established ERADA (para. 1.23).
2.26     Sand Dune Stabilization and Afforestation in Marib. This UNDP/FAO
project began activities in June 1988. The project, estimated to cost US$1.09
million and the YAR Government contribution of YRls 5.46 million (US$0.5
million equivalent), is scheduled to run for three to four years. With MAF
(now ERADA) as counterpart the project would: (a) diagnose the problems of
desertification in the Marib Governorate; (b) implement a sand dune fixing and
stabilization program to protect 850 ha of fertile agricultural land in
selected sites along 4 km of irrigation canal; (c) train three professional
staff and five technicians to enable the National Forestry Department to fight
desertification; and (d) promote villagers' participation in the execution of
sand stabilization programs through extension, training, and plant/seedling
distribution. The project would establish a nursery at Al Shabwan for the
production of 350,000 seedlings annually. Project activities would be
entirely compatible with the proposed irrigation development in the Marib
Scheme command area. The Government, with foreign assistance, intends to
expand on the program outside the scope of this proposed project.
E. Irrigation and Agricultural Practices and Potential
2.27     Irrigation Practices.  Irrigation is based on spate flows, perennial
streams, and groundwater pumped from tubewells and boreholes. Rainfed farms
comprise only a small part of the cropped area. Present use of agricultural
land is estimated to be as follows:



-21-
Table 2.1: PRESENT LAND USE
Source of Water         Marib               Al Jawf                 Total
Ha      %            Ha          %          Ha      %
('000)               ('000)                 ('000)
Irrigation
Spate             20.0      30          4.8        23          24.8     28
Streams            0.5        1         0.7         3           1.2      1
Pump              19.4 a/   29          2.8        13          22.2     26
Subtotal        39.9      60          8.3        39         48.2      55
Rainfed              2.5        4         0.3         1           2.8
Abandoned or
Fallow            23.6      36         12.7        60          36.3     42
TOTAL               66.0      100        21.3       100          87.3    100
a/  This is expected to increase with the project to about 21,000 ha; the
difference is mainly from abandoned or fallow land.
When the Marib dam becomes operative (late 1989), about 4,250 ha are expected
to receive surface irrigation through constructed primary and secondary
canals, in conjunction with pump irrigation. About 2,000 ha outside the
surface command area of the dam would continue to be irrigated by pumped
water, benefiting from improved aquifer recharge as a result of the Marib
Scheme.
2.28     Irrigation Methodology.  For spate irrigation, simple earth structures
are constructed across the wadi, and water is conveyed through bunds and earth
canals to individual fields. Water is held in the field until the soil is
saturated, then passed to lower areas by breaking the bunds at various
points. Ground water is pumped from a well or borehole, delivering water into
a stilling basin. The water is conveyed by gravity through a network of
noncompacted earth canals to bunded fields. In both types of irrigation,
field water losses are high. Field efficiency is estimated at 35% and 40% for
surface and well irrigation, respectively.
2.29     Cropging Pattern.  About 50% of the crop area, which depends on
spate flow, is under cultivation during the summer season. The main crops are
sorghum and millet, with small areas of sesame. In areas served with
perennial irrigation from groundwater or streams, winter crops such as wheat,
vegetables, and barley are commonly grown; they are followed in summer by
vegetables, sorghum and maize (Chart C-1, World Bank No. 42499.1). Alfalfa is
also grown all year round for livestock feeding. Areas given to fruit
orchards are increasing rapidly, with the most common being citrus. There are



-22-
also areas of guavas, pomegranates, grapes, dates and, in the more temperate
climate of Jubah Murad (Marib Governorate), deciduous fruits. Crop area
estimates are given below:
Table 2.2: CROP AREAS
Marib              Al Jawf              Total
Sorghum                   33                    5                   38
Maize/millet               2                    0.1                  2.1
Wheat/barley              12                    2                   14
Sesame                     2                    1                    3
Alfalfa                    2                    1                    3
Vegetables (summer)        0.2                  0.2                  0.4
Vegetables (winter)        0.4                  0.2                  0.6
Fruit Orchards             0.2                  0.1                  0.3
51.8                 9.6                 61.4
2.30     Cultural Practices.  Mechanical equipment is widely used for the
construction of diversion structures and bunds and for land leveling.
Virtually all land preparation is carried out mechanically. Field crops and
fruit trees are normally irrigated in flooded bunds, and vegetables in
furrows. Seeding is carried out by hand broadcasting, resulting in uneven
plant density. Improved seeds are seldom used, except for some vegetables and
wheat. The use of fertilizer is practically nonexistent. Weeding is mostly
done by hand with little interrow cultivation, mainly because farmers are
unaware of the options and available tractors are inadequate for the job.
Some pest control is done chemically. Average yields suffer from low levels
of inputs and poor cultural and irrigation practices. Harvesting is largely
done by hand, with the exception of cereal threshing. This is done by a
tractor drawing a trunk or flat stone over the crop. There appear to be good
opportunities for mechanizing harvesting, with the introduction of small,
motorized harvesters and the use of stationary threshers. This machinery
would be introduced to the region under the proposed project.
2.31     Livestock Production. Based on the 1981 Agricultural Census there
are, in the region, about 700,000 sheep and goats, 20,000 cattle and 40,000
camels and donkeys. Livestock is an important contributor to family nutrition
and income. Most families kecp sheep and goats, and 10-15% of the families
also keep cattle for milk production. Livestock is usually confined, and
their feed requirements come predominantly from crops and crop residues. Pens
and buildings used for confining flocks are unsanitary, and, in the case of
stables, the ventilation is poor. In general, disease is not a major
constraint, but there are occasional outbreaks of rinderpest and sheep pox,
which can be prevented by vaccination. Most lambs are sold at an age of 5 to
7 months, with a liveweight of 20 to 25 kg. Livestock prices are high
(YRls 50 to 60 per kg), realizing about YRls 1,200-1,400 per lamb. Prices of



-23-
forage crops and crop residues, which constitute about 80% of the feed
requirement, are also high (alfalfa at YRls 0.7 per kg green, wheat straw at
YRls 2.0 per kg, and sorghum stover at YRls 1.2 per kg). Given the attractive
prices in the region and the importance of livestock to family nutrition,
there are opportunities for improving livestock production and increasing farm
income. These will be addressed under the proposed project.
2.32     Agricultural Development Potential. The potential fur agricultural
development in the Eastern Region and the improved techniques for early
dissemination to farmers are proven by farmer experience and some prelimina:y
research activities. Simple improved techniques are available for yield and
production increases. Variety trials and field demonstrations carried out by
ARA have indicated good potentials for wheat. The MAF Agricultural Affairs
Department in Marib and the Al-Jawf Project have, based on experience from
other locations in YAR, introduced simple programs aimed at specific
problems. Improved wheat, maize and potato seeds have been distributed, and
MAF makes recommendations for these crops as well as for sesame, sorghum
fodder and vegetables (tomatoes and melons). Improved fruit tree planting
materials are also distributed and recommendations are made for nursery and
orchard management.
11. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives, Rationale and Scope
3.01     Project Objectives.  The main objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to establish the institutional framework for addressing the longer term
agricultural development needs of the region through: (i) establishing and
strengthening agricultural support services, including agricultural extension
under ERADA, and (ii) augmenting agricultural research; and (b) to provide for
the early use of the production potential created by the Marib Scheme and
ensure its sustainability through the development of: (i) an operation and
maintenance service, (ii) a tertiary distribution system for the Marib Scheme,
and (iii) on-farm development. The project would help increase agricultural
productivity and farmers' incomes by promoting the use of improved
agricultural and irrigation practices and upgrading the management of land and
water resources. Agricultural production increases would be mainly in
cereals, vegetables and fruits.
3.02     Project Rationale.  The area of the proposed project, which until
recently has only marginally benefited from public investments in agriculture,
has high agricultural potential. Soils and water, particularly that of the
Marib Dam command area, are of good quality and the climate is favorable for
diversified cropping, high crop yields and expanded production. Currently,
however, production is well below potential. Yields are low, due primarily to
inefficient agricultural and irrigation practices, the lack of fertilizers and
the inefficient use of scarce water resources. Recognizing these constraints,
and in line with previous agricultural development in the country, the
Government has endeavored to provide assistance (IDA supported) to the Wadi
Al-Jawf Governorate (para 2.25). With the support of the Abu Dhabi
Government, it has recently completed the construction of the Marib Dam. The



-24-
Government, in its TFYP, designated the further agricultural development of
the Eastern Region a high priority. This would entail the development of the
distribution system, the operation and maintenance of the Marib Scheme, and
the establishment and strengthening of regional agricultural support services,
including extension and research. The development program is consistent with
IDA's strategy in YAR, and the proposed project would help to address the
Government's priorities. IDA has been successfully involved in the
development of YAR's agriculture sector and has assisted the Government in
establishing support services in several ecological zones of the country. On
the basis of its past experience, IDA can play an important role in assisting
the Government in designing and implementing agricultural development
projects. Continuous involvement in such projects would help IDA pursue an
active dialogue with the Government by effectively addressing such sectoral
issues as the establishment of viable institutions, the efficient use of
resources, and the development of manpower.
3.03     Project Scope and Components.  The proposed project aims at
developing the agricultural institutions, primarily ERADA and ARA, in order
to aeiress the long-term agricultural development needs of the region and to
tap the production potential of the Marib Scheme command area. The project
components would comprise the following:
gi)    Regional Institutional Development, which includes:
(a) strengthening ERADA and its agricultural support ser':ices;
(b) augmenting agricultural research; and
(c) providing technical assistance, training and studies;
(ii)    The Mario Scheme Development, which includes:
(a) strengthening the O&M service;
(b) developing a tertiary distribution system; and
(iii)    On-farm Development.
B. Detailed Project Features
Regional Institutional Development (Base Cost; US$14.0 Million)
3.04     ERADA and Its Support Services (Base Cost: US$5.6 Million).  In June
1987, the Government of YAR created (law number 23-1987) a semiautonomous
Eastern Region Agricultural Development Authority (ERADA), on the same lines
as the Tihama Development Authority (TDA), for carrying out agricultural and
rural development in the Governorates of Marib and Al-Jawf. The proposed
project would provide assistance for the establishment of ERADA and its
agricultural and engineering support services. These services include
agricultural extension, animal health, the establishment of a mother tree
orchard, engineering, and the Marib Scheme O&M service (para. 3.22). The
engineering service would be responsible for preparation of designs and for
the maintenance of agricultural facilities and infrastructure. For the
establishment of these services, vehicles and equipment are estimated to cost
about US$0.9 million; the recurrent costs (over the six-year implementation
period) are estimated at US$2.5 million. Civil works are estimated to cost



-25-
about US$2.3 million. They would mainly consist of the construction of
offices (1,000 m2) and houses (1,800 m2), nine extension and veterinary
centers (1,260 m2), one block center (450 mz) and the establishment of an
8 ha mother tree orchard. This is in addition to the houses owned by the
Abu Dhabi Fund and currently used by the consultant (about 1,600 m2). The
ADF has already agreed to hand over these buildings to Government (ERADA) by
August 1989.
3.05     Regional Agricultural Services.  ERADA (para. 4.02) would be
responsible for the agricultural programs for the region, including those
being developed under the ongoing Wadi Al-Jawf Project (Cr. 1584 YAR). It
would also develop the agricultural programs for the Marib Governorate,
including agricultural extension, animal health services and the establishment
of a mother tree orchard. Development in the Marib Governorate would focus,
in this phase, on the Marib Scheme command area with some pilot activities in
other high potential areas of the Governorate. The agricultural extension
service would be structured with a single line of command and clear definition
of responsibility and accountability. The organization would ensure strict
planning, proper monitoring and evaluation, staff training, and technical
support, as well as strong and effective coordination with agricultural
research, credit institutions, and the marketing department of MAF.
3.06     Regional Agricultural Extension Service. The regional service would
bring extension within the reach of about 2,600 farm holdings in the Marib
Governorate, in addition to the 1,700 farm holdings expected to be reached
under the ongoing Wadi Al-Jawf Project. It would also lay the foundation for
expanding this coverage to reach about another 14,200 farm holdings in the
region. The service in the Marib Governorate would consist of 9 extension
agents (5 within the Marib Scheme command area), or about 1 to every 300-350
farm holdings. There would be one extension supervisor supported by nine
higher-level headquarter staff (6 SMS, 1 extension planning/training officer,
a communication officer, and a women-in-development female officer), and two
SMS for the Harib area (outside the Marib Scheme command area). The
higher-level headquarter extension staff would also provide technical and
planning/training support to extension staff under the Wadi Al-Jawf Project.
Of these, four village-level extension agents and five higher-level extension
staff are already employed. However, current staff do require training in
subject matter as well as in extension methodology (para. 3.20). An
additional five extension agents, one extension supervisor, and six higher
level staff would be recruited during the six-year project implementation
period. Local staff are expected to be available for such recruitment.
3.07     Each agent, operating from one extension center (the locations of
which are given in Annex I, Table 9), would be assigned responsibility for a
specific territory and be held accountable for providing assistance in all
aspects of farming (including livestock production). To allow for complete
mobility, each agent would be provided with one motorcycle. The agents would
be regularly supervised by the extension supervisor and would receive
technical support and regular in-service training from the SMS in their
special areas of expertise.
3 1 2 8 C



-26-
3.08     The service would support two complementary, and mutually
reinforcing, approaches to extension and information transfer. These would be
based on personal contact between extension agents and farmers and mass
communication Personal contact would be achieved through regular farm visits
to lead and contact farmers; through farmers' meetings; and through field
demonstrations and field days attended by farmers, ARA and CACB
representatives, and private traders. Mass communication would be achieved
through the use of audiovisual aids: slides, movies, videos and
publications.
3.09     Collaboration between extension and research staff would also be
enhanced through verification trials and field demonstrations. Extension
agents would become better acquainted with research findings, and the research
staff would learn more about the specific difficulties encountered by
farmers. ERADA and ARA would institute joint extension and research groups,
with farmer participation, in order to review progress and analyze the impact
of extension, the adequacy of technological packages, and the problems to be
addressed by research. The extension service would also maintain close
linkages with CACB to ensure that agricultural credit is provided for sound
investments and in accordance with the recommended technology.
3.10     Women in Development.  The project area has a strong tribal
character allowing very little exposure for women. Women, however, play an
important role in agricultural development in the area through direct
participation in agriculture and livestock production. The proposed project
would adopt a modest approach to women in development by gathering data on
women's activities and their role in agriculture. It would also identify
areas of interest to women and define approaches to resolving their most
pressing concerns. Simultaneously, the project would initiate activities in
animal production and in home economics, including nutrition, food processing,
and health and child care. The program would be run by one
women-in-development expert assisted by two local counterparts.
3.11     Regional Veterinary Service. The proposed project aims at
strengthening and expanding the animal health services for the Marib
Governorate. Tne main focus would be on the prevention of animal diseases in
the area and on the improvement of clinical and surgical treatment. The
project would provide veterinary equipment, vehicles and training for
veterinary technicians. Additional local staff to be provided under the
project include one veterinary officer and three veterinary assistants
(para. 2.19). The veterinary staff in the region would be under the
administrative control of ERADA but would work within the framework of, and in
accordance with, national programs determined by the National Veterinary
Service of MAF.
3.12     Mother Tree Orchard Establishment. Farmers adopting techniques
introduced through the extension service would require upgraded
planting/grafting materials for orchard improvement. It is estimated that by
the sixth year of the project implementation period, 50,000 plants would be
needed for orchard establishment and about 40,000 plants/grafts would be
needed for the improvement of existing orchards. Farmers already producing
nursery materials could satisfy this demand, provided adequate assistance to
increase production and ensure quality of output is provided. In order to



-27-
provide such assistance, ERADA would establish an 8 ha mother tree orchard at
an estimated base cost of US$0.26 million. Following existing policies, the
Government would sell to farmers grafting and/or planting materials at cost.
3.13     EngineeringService. An engineering service would be established for
the Eastern Region to: (i) maintain existing project facilities and
infrastructure [excluding thie Marib Scheme (para. 3.22)]; (ii) provide
detailed designs, procurement documents, and work supervision for
infrastructure; (iii) technical support to LCCDs in the operation and
maintenance of rural roads and village water supply schemes; and (iv) provide
assistance to the extension service in the design and implementation of farm
irrigation works. The project would provide staff, staff training, civil
works and vehicles.
Regional Agricultural Research (Base Cost: US$4.7 MiUion).
3.14     Agricultural research in YAR is the responsibility of ARA.  Due to
limited resources, ARA has been focusing on the Tihama and the Southern and
Central areas of the country, with very little attention given, so far, to the
Eastern Region. Although the agricultural potential of this region has been
demonstrated and simple improved techniques are available for early transfer
to farmers, research to improve and sustain the data base is required to
address the region's long-term development needs. Modest provisions made
under the Al-Jawf Project currently under implementation address part of those
needs. The proposed project would complement these efforts by providing
research staff and staff training; farm and laboratory equipment and vehicles;
and civil works for offices, laboratories, ancillary facilities and houses. A
regional resea ch station would be established in Marib and the research
substation in the Al-Jawf Governorate would be upgraded. During negotiations,
Government confirmed that an adequate area within the existing Government farm
in Marib would be set aside for the regional research station.
3.15     The Research Program.  Research in the Eastern Region would be
organized in units reporting directly to corresponding units at ARA
headquarters and would focus on regional requirements and priorities. Most
ARA commodity, as well as support, programs would be represented in the
region. Because of the wide range of crops that can be grown in the region
and the shortage of research data to date, agricultural research would be
diversified, adaptive and problem-oriented in nature. The program would focus
on cereals (maize and wheat); vegetables (tomatoes and melons); fruit trees
(citrus); alfalfa and other forage alternatives; and livestock. Research
would be conducted both in the station and on farmers' fields, particularly
when the research station is not representative of farmers' problems.
Research priority would be given to testing high-yield, disease-resistant and
early-maturing varieties, as well as to appropriate, economically sound
agronomic practices. Intercropping cereals and forage legumes would be
investigated as an alternative to alfalfa. In an effort to improve the
efficiency of irrigation, on-farm water management techniques, application
rates and water exploitation would be researched; groundwater would be
monitored, and drainage and salinity would be examined. Appropriate machinery
for harvesting, threshing and spraying would also be tested. Livestock
research would emphasize management of local breeds, including the maintenance
of breeding flocks and the fattening of young animals using crops and their
by-products.



-28-
3.16     As an adjunct to commodity research, the plant protection unit of ARA
headquarters and its representative in the Eastern Region would conduct
integrated pest management research aimed at identifying economically and
environmentally sound pest control methods (para. 3.41). The unit would also
conduct safety training programs for extension agents. The effect of chemical
pest control and long-term fertilizer use, particularly the nitrates
(paras. 2.09 and 3.41), on the quality of groundwater for domestic use would
be studied and periodically monitored as well.
3.17     The improved packages being generated by the various research
programs would be economically evaluated by an agricultural economist within
ARAs staff to determine their optimal use and application to the farming
system in the Eastern Region. The agricultural economist would also carry out
research on the economics of farming systems. On-farm verification trials
would be carried out and tested (jointly with the extension service) prior to
dissemination to farmers. The research program would be responsive to market
requirements by emphasizing market quality, harvest and postharvest
technology, as well as strategies to avoid market bottlenecks. The liaison
officer would be responsible for establishing and sustaining strong linkages
with extension. He/she would also identify research training needs,
coordinate extension training provided by research staff, and, with assistance
from the Communication and Training Unit at ARA headquarters, prepare
technical bulletins, pamphlets and audiovisual aids for improved packages.
Technical Assistance, and Training (Base Cost: US$ 3.7 Million)
3.18     To assist in the establishment of agricultural, engineering, and O&M
services under ERADA, and in the strengthening of the research capability of
ARA in the region, the proposed project would provide about 51 staff years
(sly) of expert services: 38.5 s/y in agricultural research, extension and
veterinary medicine; and 12.5 s/y in engineering (irrigation, hydrogeology,
design and operation, and maintenance). The project would also provide 17
staff months (s/m) of short-term consultancies:  3 s/m for annual dam
inspection at 0.5 s/m annually for six years; 6 s/m for preparation of designs
for 300 ha of tertiary canals for the Marib Scheme; 6 s/m for a flood
protection study; and 2 s/m for an archeological study. The agricultural
advisors, particularly the cereal specialist, irrigation agronomist,
horticulturist, livestock specialist and plant protection expert, would
support both the extension and the research programs. Technical assistance
has been designed so that the experts assist the Government in project
implementation and in training of local staff. It is expected that expert
services be gradually phased out over 4-5 years to be replaced by local
counterparts. A flood protection study would be conducted in the Marib Scheme
cowmand area aimed at surveying the extent of likely water flow from adjacent
wadis and their effects on the existing distribution system. The study would
make recommendations for any further flood protection measures to be
implemented by ERADA. A study would be conducted by Government under the
project by June 30, 1989 at a cost of 2 s/m to survey archeological sites and
outline and carry out a plan for preserving archeological and historical sites
[para. 6.01(n)]. Terms of reference for the experts/consultants would
emphasize training of Yemeni staff, which would pave the way for a smooth and
effective takeover of the major project tasks. Three key experts (research,



-29-
extension and O&M engineer) and two associate experts (livestock and
horticulture) are being recruited under PPF No. P-508-YAR. Three other key
experts (irrigation agronomist, cereal specialist, and hydrologist/
hydrogeologist) would be recruited by October 1, 1989. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would appoint qualified and
experienced experts and consultants in accordance with an agreed schedule of
implementation for ERADP for 1989 [para. 6.01 (b)].
3.19     Training.  In addition to on-the-job project-related training
provided by appointed experts, the project would provide for short-term
foreign training as well as local training (para. 3.20). The former, which
comprises 72 s/m (36 s/m for the engineering staff, mainly the O&M service of
the Marib Scheme; and 36 s/m for agricultural extension and research), would
involve participation in training ccurses given by international research
centers such as ICARDA, ICRISAT and CIMMYT. Senior local staff would also
visit countries where successful programs in relevant fields were under
implementation. Advanced-degree training needs would be assessed by the
upcoming proposed National Agricultural Development Project (NADP) planned for
FY90.
3.20     Local training under the proposed project would focus mainly on
project-related technology and extension methodology. It would aim at
strengthening the technical capabilities of the agricultural and engineering
staff, and the communication abilities of the extension staff with farmers.
More specifically, the training unit of ERADA's extension service would
provide training to extension agents in the following courses: (a) general
agriculture, including livestock production, extension methodology and project
orientation (about 16 weeks); and (b) project-reiated technology in livestock,
crop production, plant protection, irrigation technologies and mechanization
(about one week per subject matter, for a total of about six weeks).
Refresher courses in improved technology would be offered (2-3 day workshops),
mainly by ARA staff to SMS and extension supervisors.
3.21     The training unit, in providing these courses, would seek assistance
from ARA and ERADA senior agricultural staff and experts/consultants provided
by the project. The staff of the Marib Scheme O&M service would also receive
regular in-service training in dam operation and maintenance, and in the
operation Gf heavy machinery related to the service. Senior engineering staff
in ERADA, along with senior engineering staff in other regional organizations,
would provide the training.
Marib Scheme Development (Base Cost: US$4.5 Million)
3.22     Marib Scheme O&M Service (Base Cost: US$ 3.2 MWion.  The proposed
project would provide for the strengthening of the existing Marib Scheme O&M
service. In particular, it would provide for staffing and staff training,
houses, vehicles, and equipment.
3.23     The functions of the O&M service would include the following:
(a) the overall management of the scheme, including the operation and
maintenance of (i) the dam and its appurtenant structures, (ii) the wadi bed,
(iii) the diversion structures, and (iv) the irrigation conveyance and
distribution system; (b) the formulation of an annual operation plan, in



-30-
coordination with the agricultural department of ERADA and the farmers, which
would take into consideration the availability of water in the dam, the
estimated inflow, appropriate cropping patterns, crop water requirements and
water demand; (c) the preparation of the designs for Lhe tertiary distribution
system and supervision of its construction; (d) the monitoring of the
catchment area hydrology; and (e) the monitoring of the recharge and
abstraction of underground water within the Marib Scheme command area. The
annual operation plans would then be translated into daily work plans subject
to modification.
3.24     Tertiary Distribution System (Base Cost: US$ 1.3 Milion).  The proposed
project would provide for the construction of the tertiary distribution system
(canals) for about 4,250 ha in about 200 tertiary blocks of 15-25 ha each.
Detailed designs, specificatir-as and cost estimates of each tertiary block
would ;e provided by the Eng.ieering/Marib Scheme O&M Service of ERADA.  The
design of the tertiary canals would allow for a minimum conveyance efficiency
of 85% and a flow rate of 2.0 1/s/ha gross, permitting adequate delivery of
water requirements at peak demand during the daytime. The detailed design
would be initiated (for about 15 blocks) under the PPF Advance (P-508-YAR),
with the rest to be done during project implementation. Regarding
construction of the canals as per the proposed design, ERADA would either
contract the work, following local competitive bidding procedures, and charge
the farmers for the cost (paras. 4.09 and 5.09), or provide construction
supervision to farmers who choose to construct the canals themselves. it is
expected that about 75% of the farmers will elect to entrust ERADA with the
construction work. Prior to release of water to the tertiary blocks, final
inspection of the works would be provided by ERADA.
On-Farm Development (Base Cost: US$ 2.6 Million)
3.25     Following the full operation of the Marib Scheme and the successful
demonstration of improved agricultural and irrigation practices, farmers are
expected to, within the six-year project implementation period, make
irrigation investments on about 2,700 ha, establish about 200 ha of new
orchards, and purchase some 400 mechanization units (mostly sprayers and
harvesting and threshing equipment). The cost of these investments, excluding
family labor, is estimated at US$2.6 million. It is assumed that about 50% of
these farmers would require credit at about 80% of investment costs,
generating incremental demand for agricultural credit equivalent to US$1.1
million. During negotiations, assurances were given by the Government that
funds would be made available to CACB, under terms and conditions that are
consistent with CACB's national policies for lending to agriculture.
C. Cost Estimate
3.26     Project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated to be YRls 341.6 million (US$27.9 million equivalent), with a
foreign exchange component of US$16.5 million, accounting for 59% of total
cost. The base costs are calculated using unit costs as of November 1988.
The average cost per staff month of technical assistance is US$5,600. The
cQst of vehicles, equipment and machinery includes spare parts. The project
will be implemented over six years with the disbursement period extending to
seven years. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 15% for civil
' I  I r.



-31-
works, 10% for vehicles, equipment and technical assistance; and 5% for local
staffing. Annual allowances for expected price increases on the foreign
exchange component were calculated at 5.3% for 1989 and 1990 and 4.1% for 1991
and thereafter; and for local inflation rates at 15% for 1988 and 1989, 10%
for 1990, and 8% for 1991 and subsequent years. Calculations have been based
on the assumption that purchasing power parity would be maintained over the
project implementation period. These estimates do not include taxes and
duties, from which the project is exempt. The total incremental recurrent
cost during the project implementation period in 1988 prices is estimated at
US$4.9 million equivalent. The total annual recurrent cost (in 1988 prices)
in year six and onwards required to sustain the services established and/or
strengthened under the project is US$2 million equivalent. Assurances during
negotiations were obtained from the Government that sufficient funds would be
available to ERADA and ARA in a timely manner to meet the full recurrent costs
of the Project [para. 6.01(d)]. Details of cost estimates swmunarized below
(Table 3.1) are presented in Annex I, Tables 11(a), 11(b) and ll(c).
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
'R.. O0W                             (Uist 000i
' lotal                             T Total
Z Foreign Base                      Z Forton Bse
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchanse  Costs  Local  Foreign  Total  Exch*a    Costs
-22=-23  23232: S=:::-2  *2'223233 2S22=2  2 :=:::  2 SS2S222  S2 S2: 2232--2 *12 222
A. REGIONAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPIENT
SUPPORT TO ERADA                       30W362.9 246702.1 55,065.0   45    27  3.114.1 2.533.5 5S647.7    45    27
SUPPORT TO ARA                         24,M9.4 20,462.7 45.455,0    45    22  2.563.3 2.098.7 4t662.1    45    22
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE. TRAINING I STUDIES  1P786.5 33X943.5 350730.0  95    17   183.2 3.481.4 3t664.6    95    17
Sub-Total REGIONAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPENT  57,141.8 79.08.3 136,250.0  58    66  5.860.7 8M113.7 13,974.4  58    66
8. MRIB SCHEME DEVELOPMENT
Oli SERVICE                            119207.4 20.203.7 31.411.0   64    15  l.149.5 24072.2 3.221.6    64    15
TERTIARY DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM            54100.0  7,650.0 12.750.0   60     6   523.1  794.6 I.307.7      60     6
Sub-Total MAR18 SCEME DEUELOPIIFNT       164307.4 27.853.7 44P161.0   63    21  1.672.5 2PR56.8 4,529.3    63    21
C. O-FARM DEVELOPMENT                    10.074.3 15.314.7 25,389.1   60    12  1.033.3 1.570.7 2.604M 0   60    12
Total BASELINE COSTS                       83.523.4 122.276.6 2054800.1  59   100  8.566.5 12.541.2 21t107.7  59   100
Ph)sical Continncies                     7.480.6 13,987.0 21W367.6   65    10   767.2 lo424.3 2.191.5     65    10
Price Continsencoes                      51.276.4 63.154.1 1140430.5  55    56  2064.6 26517.0 4P581.7    55    22
Total PROCT COSTS                         142.280.4 199.317.7 3416598.1  58   166 11,398.4 16.482.5 27.880.9  59   132
::ST-z :::.=C:: :=s        ===S=  SS--:=S_  :::   ::s:    ==: 32a== .=SSa=*g   _
D. Financing
3.27         The IDA credit of US$15.0 million equivalent (SDR 11.0 million) would
finance 91% of the foreign exchange component or about 54% of the total
project costs. The Government would finance US$8.8 million equivalent, and
the balance, US$4.1 million equivalent, would be financed by the
beneficiaries. The detailec project financing plan is given in Table 3.2
below.



-32-
Table 3.2: PROJEC,' FINANCING PLAN
Total
iA   YAR Governimn& manficiaries Forian iacal Total
S--------------------- (US$ Million) --------------… -_______
Inve,ttmnt Costs
Civil Works          5.4       1.6      -       4.2   2.8    7.0
Vehicles and Equipment  4.1   0.4       -       4.1   0.4    4.5
Experts              4.0      0.2       -       4.0   0.2    4.2
Foreign Training     0.3      -         -       0.3   -   0.3
Tertiary Canals      1.2      0.3       0.4     1.1   0.8  1.9
On-Farm Development  -         -        3.7     2.2   1.5    3.7
Subtotal          15.0      2.5       4.1     15.9  5.7   2' 6
Recurrent Costs     -         6.3       -       0.6   5.7    6.3
T!al              1S.0      8.8       4.1     16.5    11.4   27.9
E. Procurement
3.28    Procurement of goods, works, and services financed by IDA will be
carried out in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for Procurement of May
1985 and Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants of August 1981.
3.29    Works.  The construction- of office buildings and houses for ARA and
ERADA regional headquarters (including the O&M service of the Marib Scheme)
and ARA houses for the Al-Jawf Governorate are estimated to cost US$5.0
million (IDA financing: US$3.9 million) and would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Yemeni bidders would be given a
civil works domestic price preference of 7.5% over foreign bidders. The
following items, up to an aggregate of US$3.5 million (IDA financing: US$2.7
million) (para. 3.31) would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB): (i) the construction of tertiary canals, (ii) research ancillary
facilities and ARA offices in the Al-Jawf Governorate; (iii) extension
facilities in the Marib Governorate; and (iv) the establishment of mother tree
orchards which, for procurement purposes, cannot be grouped, and would each
cost less than US$400,000.
3.30    Goods.  Equipment, furniture, machinery and vehicles estimated to
cost US$3.9 million (IDA financing: US$3.6 million), including contingencies,
would be procured through ICB. Domestic preference of 15% or applicable
customs duties, whichever is less, would be given to local manufacturers
competing for the supply of goods under ICB. Miscellaneous goods (vehicles
financed under PPF No. P-508-YAR, tools, small equipment, laboratory and
engineering instruments, etc.), which cannot be grouped and would each cost
less than us$50,000, could be procured by local shopping up to an aggregate
cost of US$0.6 million over the entire project implementation period
(para. 3.31).



-33-
3.31    Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures in YAR are generally
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the
project. There are, however, a few procedures which are inconsistent with
Bank procurement guidelines and others which require clarification. During
negotiations, agreement was reached regarding the changes needed to make the
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.32    Services. Recruitment of experts/consultants at an estimated cost
of US$4.2 million (IDA financing: US$4.0 million) would be made in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Rf ruitment would be
either on an individual basis or on a group basis through consulting firms.
The expert services are expected to be 51 s/y and the consultants' services
are expected to be 17 s/m.
3.33    Contract Review. I3iring negotiations, the borrower will agree with
IDA on draft bidding documents for procurement of goods and works financed by
IDA (drafted following the Bank's Sample Bidd'ng Documents). For civil works
estimated to cast the equivalent of US$400,000 or more, and for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or more, IDA would review and
approve the text of invitation to bid, tender documents, award proposals, and
contracts before they are issued/awarded. IDA would thus carry out prior
review of procurement documents and awards for at least US$11.6 million out of
a total cost of US$13.0 million (IDA financing: US$10.7 million).
3.34    The procurement methods to be followed for project elements to be
financed by IDA are given in Table 3.3 below.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT PLAN a/
Procurerent procetureN
By        Not
Il    5lSbhnnina  Others  3uest1tariII  Apc1cable    I9LA
---------------------------------- fUSS HIiltonei -----------------------------------~--
C'vil Works    5.0 (3.9)  2.0 (15)  -    -       -        -         7.0 (5.4)
Vehicles and Equipment  3.9 (3.6)  -  0.6 (0.5)  -   -    -         4.5 (4.1)
Expert services          -      -      4.2 (4.0)  -       -         4.2 (4.0)
Foreign Training  -      -      -      0.3 (0.3)  -       -         0.3 (0.3)
Tertiary Canals   -    l S (1.2)  -      -       0.4 (-)  -         1.9 (1.2)
On-Farm Oevelopment  -          -        -       3.7 (-)  -         3.7 ( -
Recurrent Cost    -      --              -                6.3 ()6.3C-
TOTAL        8.9 (7.5)   3.5 (2.7)    0.6 (OS)  4.5 (4.3)  4.1 (-)  6.3 (-  27.9(6 5.-)
a/  Costs include contingencies.  Values between parentheses refer to  DA financing.



-34-
F. Disbursements
3.35     The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 11.0 million (US$15.0 million) would
be disbursed in seven years in accordance with IDA guidelines for withdrawal
of proceeds of loans/credits as given in Table 3.4 below. The credit closing
date would be December 31, 1996.
Table 3.4: DISBURSEMENT
Expenditure to be Financed
Category                 ------- (US$ Million) -----                 %
Civil Works                               4.7             77% of Total
Expenditures
Tertiary Canals                           0.8             77% of Total
Expenditures
Goods (Vehicles,                          3.7             100% of Foreign
machinery, equipment                                     Expenditures and 80% of
and furnitures)                                         items procured locally
Technical Assistance,                     3.8             100% of Foreign
Foreign !raining                                        Expenditures and 90% of
and Studies                                             Local Expenditures
PPF Advance                               0.4             Amounts disbursed under
PPF advance and accrued
charges
Unallocated                               1.6
TOTAL                                15_.
3.36     Special Account.  Provisions wouli be made that ERADA open and
maintain a US$1.0 million Special Account for funding the items to be financed
by IDA (para. 3.27). The IDA financing would be channelled through a
commercial bank chosen by the Central Bank of Yemen. The Special Account
would be operated on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. IDA may,
however, directly accept, in appropriate cases, withdrawal applications in
excess of US$150,000 for direct payment and agreement to reimburse.
3.37     Full documentation is necessary for all foreign currency or local
currency contracts above US$50,000 equivalent. For all contracts under
US$50,000 equivalent in foreign exchange or in local currency, however,
withdrawals from the Credit Account would be carried out on the basis of
Statement of Expenditure (SOE). Related contracts and supporting documents,
3 128C



-35-
such as invoices, bills of lading, receipts, etc., would be retained by ERADA
and made available for review by IDA staff on supervision missions. The
internal control and operational arrangements required for SOE operation are
satisfactory.
3.38     The estimated schedule of disbursements given below in Table 3.5 and
detailed in Annex I, Table 12 is generally consistent with the country profile.
Table 3.5: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year
Disbursements          1990   1991   1992  1993   1994  1995  1996   1997
----------------(US$ Million)----------------------
Annual                 1.0 a/  1.5   3.0    2.5   2.8    2.3   1.5    0.4
Cumulative             1.0      2.5   5.5    8.0  10.8   13.1  14.6   15.0
Profile(M)             6.7    16.7  36.7   53.3  72.0   87.3  96.0  100.0
YAR Portfolio(%)       2.0    11.0  31.0   50.0  69.0   85.0  93.0  100.0
a/  This includes disbursements under the PPF.
G. Accounts and Audits
3.39     ERADA would maintain separate records and accounts reflecting the
project receipts and expenditures clearly identifying the goods and services
procured and works performed. Also, ARA and the O&M service for the Marib
Scheme would maintain separate accounts and records of project expenditures
related to their activities under the project.
3.40     The project accounts o,f ERADA, including the O&M service for the
Marib Scheme, and of ARA would be audited annually in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. The auditor's report would include, inter alia, a
statement that the funds advanced by IDA for the Special Account and SOE were
used for the purpose for which they were provided. MAF's auditing practices
on the previous and ongoing IDA-assisted projects have been satisfactory.
Assurances were given by the Government during negotiation that auditing firms
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA would be employed for
this project and that a certified copy of audited accounts, together with the
auditor's report, would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of
each fiscal year [para. 6.01(e)].



-36-
H. Environmental Impact
3.41     The proposed project is not expected to generate any environmental
hazards, although the use of agricultural chemicals, mainly fertilizers and
pesticides, is expected to increase as a result of project activities. The
selection of pesticides in the research program and extension packages and the
optimum use of farm chemicals would constitute an important part of the
training of extension and research staff. The strong research/extension
linkage foreseen under this project (para. 3.09) would be catalytic in
developing an appropriate pesticide and fertilizer management technology.
Dealers/agents, because of their important role in educating farmers, would be
advised of the proper storage of chemicals and disposal of chemical
containers. Pesticides would be prudently and economically researched and
used (para. 3.16), and pest control would be complemented with nonchemical
measures, including the use of resistant crop varieties and improved cultural
practices. In addition, the long-term effect of pesticides and fertilizers,
particularly the nitrates, on the quality of groundwater use for domestic
purposes would be assessed and measured to reduce or eliminate the likelihood
of water pollution (para. 2.09). Research, in coordination with the extension
service, would assess and monitor these activities. Assurances were obtained
from the Government during negotiations that (a) selection, handling and use
of pesticides in research trials and extension packages would be in accordance
with IDA guidelines [para. 6.01(f)] and (b) a monitoring system would be
established by ARA to monitor potential water pollution with fertilizer and
pesticide residues [para. 6.01(g)].
I. Riparian Issues
3.42     All flows, including that of the Marib Dam in the Eastern Region,
have catchment areas within the political boundary of YAR. Therefore, there
is no international rights problem in the use and regulation of these flows
for agricultural development in the region.
J. Status of Project Preparation
3.43     Secondary canals for the Marib Scheme are under construction and are
expected to be completed by end-1989. Adequate budgetary allocations have
been made to meet the 1989 investment and operating costs of ERADA and ARA.
An agreed upon 1989 work program has been developed (Annex I, Table 13). For
construction of buildings, MAF has standard designs which evolved in
IDA-supported projects in the Tihama, Southern and Central Regions, and more
recently in the Northern Region. These would be adapted for the conditions of
the Eastern Region. Assistance in preparing designs and tender documents is
being obtained from expert services employed under the Wadi Al-Jawf Project.
Recruitment is underway for preparation of designs for a tertiary distribution
system for the first 300 ha in the Marib Scheme area. This is being financed
under PPF Advance (P-508-YAR)and designs would be completed by the end of
June, 1989. Designs for the rest of the tertiary network would be completed
in the first two years of project implementation. Candidates for three expert
positions (one each for research, extension and O&M services) have been
identified and recruitment is underway. Local staff (two research officers,
four research assistants and six technicians) are being recruited to
strengthen the research activities in the region. Land has already been
-a I; r



-37-
acquired for ERADA and ARA headquarters and the regional research station in
Marib (?,ara 3.14). Preliminary designs and draft tender documents for key
buildings, equipment, and vehicles for ERADA and ARA have been submitted to
IDA.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Arrangements
4.01     Implementing Agencies. The Eastern Region Agricultural Development
Authority (ERADA), established by the Government of YAR (para. 4.02), would be
responsible for all aspects of project implementation including, but not
limited to, field investigations, planning, design, procurement, construction,
and agricultural and O&M services. ARA would be responsible for carrying out
the research program and would coordinate with ERADA in procuring project
facilities for such a program. CACB would handle the credit requirements for
the region. The organization structure of these institutions is presented in
Chart C-3 (World Bank No. 42499.3).
4.02     ERADA. In June 1987, the Government of YAR established ERADA as a
semiautonomous body responsible for all agricultural development activities in
the region, a role previously assumed by the departments of agriculture at the
Al-Jawf and Marib Governorates (para. 2.15). Staff of these departments would
function under the technical and administrative control of ERADA and the
reSpective  nuvernnrs- RRAnA. whinh iR hedatqartered in Marib. would have
three regional departments: one department for Agriculture, Engineering, and
Administration and Finance; one department for the Al-Jawf Governorate; and
another for the Marib Scheme O&M service. In addition to their regional
responsibilities, the departments would also be responsible for developmental
activities for the Marib Governorate. Each department would be headed by a
director under an overall Director General who reports directly to the
Chairman. The Governors would provide administrative coordination for ERADA's
provincial departments. The key positions in ERADA would be filled by drawing
on new graduates and on experienced staff from TDA and SURDU (Annex I,
Table 14).
4.03     ARA would operate in the region with its headquarters in Marib and a
branch in Al-Jawf. The research programs relevant to the region would be
carried out by units that report to corresponding sections at the ARA
headquarters in Dhamar. Administration would be handled by a Director at the
regional level and a Station Manager at Al-Jawf. Twelve key positions (about
5 M.Sc. and 7 B.Sc.) (Annex I, Table 14) would be filled from available
graduates mixed with experienced ARA staff currently operating in other
regions in the ccuntry.
4.04     CACB would be the principle agency providing credit to beneficiaries
of the region. In evaluating loan applications, particularly those that
involve major on-farm investments, CACB would coordinate its credit policies
and operations with technical advice provided by ERADA.



-38-
B. Project Implementation
4.05     Project implementation is planned for six years with the seventh year
provided to complete all disbursements (Chart C-2, World Bank No. 42499.2).
The first three years would mainly emphasize staffing, staff training,
institution building, and the finalization of designs of tertiary canal
Procurement of civil works and equipment would be staggered throughout the
implementation period. A PPF Advance (P-508-YAR) of US$400,000 (mainly for
experts and consultant services) has been approved to facilitate project
mobilization, particularly in the areas of research, extension and O&M
services.
4.06     Agricultural Support Services. The proposed project would establish an
Agricultural Department at the regional level, which in addition to its
regional agricultural responsibilities, would provide services in extension,
animal health, and a mother tree orchard for the Marib Governorate. The
staffing composition of the service is provided in Annex I, Table 14. Upon
project completion, the services would continue operating on a regional basis
until such time as a national service was established to take over
administration of the governorate level services.
4.07     Engineering Services. Services, viz. building design, water resource
studies, and irrigation technology, would be administered by the Engineering
Department for the Region as a whole and for the Marib Governorate. Also, the
engineering service would provide support to local organizations (LCCDs) in
O&M of rural roads and water supply schemes.
4.08     Marib Scheme O&M Service and Development of Tertiar Distribution
System. The proposed project would strengthen ERADA's O&M Service
Department for the Marib Scheme that would include three units: Headwork,
Irrigation, and Workshop. The Headwork Unit would be responsible for the O&M
of the dam and its appurtenant structures (spillway, outlet system valve and
instrumentation), the wadi bed, the diversion structures (A and B), the
aquifer recharge, and the meteorological and gauging stations in the catchment
area of the dam. The Irrigation Unit would be responsible for the O&M of the
primary and secondary canals, including the outlets that deliver water to the
tertiary blocks. The Workshop Unit would be responsible for the O&M of
vehicles, and the equipment and machinery of ERADA. The administration and
finance requirement of the service, including its accounts, and water charges
and cost recovery for the construction of the tertiary distribution system
would be met by ERADA's Department of Administration and Finance.
4.09     Tertiary Development Poliey. Before the Marib Scheme could be made
operative, and prior to releasing water to the tertiary blocks, certain
policies would have to be agreed upon: (a) ERADA would deal with the
beneficiaries of each tertiary block as one collective unit; (b) each unit
would be responsible for ensuring (i) the construction, operation and
maintenance of the tertiary canals; (ii) water distribution and water charges
according to the cropping and irrigation plan (para. 3.24); and (iii) the
election of an official to represent the unit in dealirg with ERADA; (c) the
cost of construction of tertiary canals when done by ERADA would be recovered
in full (para. 5.09); (d) tertiary canals constructed by the collective unit
would be designed, supervised, inspected and approved by ERADA; and
2 1 71fl'



-39-
(e) written contracts regarding points (b), (c) and (d) would be agreed upon
and signed by beneficiaries of the same collective unit, as well as by the
unit's representative and ERADA. This arrangement, which represents a
departure from the existing system of spate-water distribution common to the
tribal population of the area, may cause some problems related to water
rights, water charges, etc. To minimize these potential problems, and ensure
smooth operation of the scheme, the Government has appointed an advisory
council to ERADA whose members represent ERADA, ARA, CACB, the Marib
Governorate, the Ministry of Interior, and beneficiaries. The advisory
council would assist ERADA in anticipating and resolving problems related to
water distribution rights, cost recovery of tertiary canals built by ERADA,
collection of water charges, and other problems that might arise.
4.10     Training and Fellowship.  The thrust of training (para. 3.19) would be
on project-related technology through in-service training, special courses and
foreign training. The training program would be prepared by ERADA (in
coordination with ARA for the agricultural part) in consultation with IDA and
implemented through the respective departments. For foreign training,
arrangements would be made with suitable institutions and universities. Local
training would be handled directly by ERADA (with assistance from the
extension planning/training and the O&M experts that are being recruited under
the PPF), which would prepare detailed training curricula and be responsible
for implementation. Counterpart training would be included in the terms of
reference of the expatriate experts/consultants who would be required to
periodically report on progress.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11     Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) would be performed by the M&E Unit to
be established under ERADA and assisted by staff from the various support
services.
4.12     The scope of the M&E Unit would include:  (a) project inputs,
including water cost recovery (para. 5.09), measured against the annual work
program in physical and financial terms; (b) the impact of the extension
service on farmers; and (c) the status and quality of surface and groundwater
resources. For monitoring project inputs, each governorate would submit
periodic reports to the appropriate departments at ERADA and ARA
headquarters. Such reports would indicate both financial and physical
progress compared with annual target plans. For project output monitoring,
each governorate would report annually on a set of indicators, measuring
progress towards specific objectives. Adoption rate studies and yield surveys
developed by the extension service, in close coordination with research, would
be undertaken annually at the governorate level to assess the impact of the
technological packages disseminated under the project, and thus the impact of
the project on the farming community. The use of fertilizers and pesticides
in the project area would also be monitored. The field supervisors at the
governorate level, with the assistance of the SMS, would collect and summarize
the information and prepare semiannual progress reports which would highlight
achievements, problems, and recommendations for consideration by the extension
service. Farmers' problems, including marketing, would be periodically
assessed and recommendations would be made for adjustments in the research
program. The quality of water, both undergrourl and surface, would be
periodically monitored for any contamination by pesticides and fertilizers.



-40-
Surface water would also be tested for bilharzia. Rainfall would be recorded,
groundwater level studied, and surface water evaluated on a regional basis,
particularly for the areas benefiting from the Marib Scheme.
4.13     To strengthen the data base on the agricultural and socioeconomic
condition of farmers in the project area, particularly the Marib Scheme, a
baseline survey would be carried out in the first year of project
implementation. The M&E system would compile baseline data which would
include the stratification of farm holdings by farming system and a detailed
summary of resources, potential and constraints. This data would be utilized
by the research and extension services to outline and develop the research
program and to devise extension packages suitable for farmers. The system,
benefitting from experience gained under ongoing agricultural development
projects in YAR, would be developed with assistance from the M&E Advisor of
the Wadi Al-Jawf project. A mid-term review of the impact of the project
would be carried out jointly by IDA and the Government of YAR at the end of
the third year of project implementation (end-June 1992). Government
assurances in this regard were obtained during negotiations [para. 6.01(h)].
D. Work Plans and Progress Reportin
4.14     ERADA and ARA would prepare annual work plans, including budgetary
requirements, and ERADA would consolidate such plans and submit them to IDA
before the end of the ninth month of the preceding calendar year. Along the
same lines and in accordance with a format satisfactory to IDA, detailed and
comprehensive progress reports (one covering the period January through June
and another covering the whole year) would be prepared and submitted to IDA.
three months following the report periods. The Government would also prepare
a Project Completion Report (PCR) and submit it to IDA no later than six
months after the credit closing date, or by such later date as the Government
and IDA agree upon. Assurances in that regard were obtained from the
Government during negotiations (paras. 6.01(i) and (j)]. The estimated
project completion date is December 31, 1995.
E. Lands for Project Facilities
4.15     The Government owns, or is able to acquire, enough land in the
project area for the construction of buildings, including extension centers
and research facilities. The land sites for ERADA and ARA headquarters and
the regional research station in Marib have already been acquired. Land for
the remaining facilities, primarily the extension centers, would be acquired
by December 1989. Assurances to that regard were obtained during negotiations
[para. 6.01(k)].
V. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Production
5.01     The project would promote agricultural development in the Eastern
Region through efficient utilization of the production potential created by
the Marib Scheme. It would also ensure continued development by establishing
an institutional framework for addressing the longer term needs of the
region. More specifically, agricultural development would be promoted by
strengthening the extension services in the region (with focus on the Marib



-41-
Scheme command area) through accelerating the adoption of proven technical
packages and pursuing research and studies. The project would also:
(a) support the development of the Marib Scheme through the strengthening of
the O&M service and the construction of tertiary canals; and (b) promote
on-farm investment in irrigation improvements and in the establishment of
fruit tree orchards, particularly citrus. It is estimated that at full
development, about 2,600 farmers (1,600 within the Marib Scheme area) would be
cevered by the project, with about 2,150 farmers (1,400 within the Marib
Scheme area) adopting extension recommendations to enhance production.
Extension would focus on improved irrigation technology, on the use of
fertilizer and improved varieties, on pest control, and on livestock
management. Because of these irrigation improvements and the availability of
surface water from the scheme, the cultivated area in the total project would
be expanded from about 6,900 ha to 8,750 ha (net increase of about 1,850 ha);
and the cropped area from 8,900 ha (croppinb intensity of 129X) to 12,100 ha
(cropping intensity of 138X), a net increase of about 3,200 ha (Annex I,
Table 15). Crop yield, areas and production increases are expected mainly
from vegetables, sorghum fodder, fruits, alfalfa and wheat. At full
development the project would increase annual fruit and vegetable production
by about 24,000 tons, forages by about 18,000 tons, and grains by about 6,000
tons (Annex I, Table 16). In addition, the animal health service would
provide treatment for an estimated 75,000 ruminant aiAimals, thereby improving
their health and productivity. Demand projections indicate the existence of
adequate markets for the sale of the incremental production of the project.
Moreover, a relatively efficient marketing network exists in the project area,
with the private sector playing the dominant role.
5.02     Farm Models.  The project area contains a range of farm types and
sizes. To analyze the benefits of farm development, four basic farm models
are used (Table 5.1).
Table 5.1: FARM SIZE AND AREA UNDER DEVELOPMENT
Unit       No. of Holdings            No. of Holdings
Size     Total   To be Covered         Participating
Farm Model                 Ha               by Ext. Prog.       Full Development
Marib                      Marib       Marib
Governorate                Governorate  Scheme
1. Marib Scheme Surface/    5       800         800               700        700
Well--currently
irrigated
2. Marib Scheme Surface/    6        300        300               260        260
Well--Currently
Abandoned
3. Well Irrigated            3    1,900         goo 8'            710        260
4. Spate and Well            8    2,000         600 b/            480        180
Total                     5,000       2,600             2,150     1,400
a/ Three hundred holdings are within the Marib Scheme command area.
b/ Two hundred holdings are within the Marib Scheme command area.



-42-
Farm models 1 and 2 represent farms that use surface water from the Marib Dam
in conjunction with underground water. Farm model 3 represents well
irrigation and farm model 4 represents well and spate. About 500 model 3 and
4 farms would benefit from underground water recharged from the Marib Dam.
Farm models 2-4 have two variants (A and B), while model 1 has variant B only
(Table 5.2). Variant A depicts farmers who adopt extension recommendations
for increasing crop yield, but who make no, or only minimal, investments in
farm im"rovement. Variant B represents farmers who adopt extension advice to
improve yields and invest in land and irrigation development to improve water
use efficiency. Present field efficiency of groundwater use is estimated at
402, increasing to an average of 52% with investment in piped (PVC pipes)
distribution systems. The use of Marib Scheme surface water is assumed to be
at 352 field efficiency, increasing to an average of 47% with the installation
of tertiaries and irrigation improvements. The total net water requirement
for models 1 and 2 is estimated at 51.4 Mm3, of which 32.6 Mm3 would come
from the surface water of the Marib Scheme, and 18.8 Mm3 from groundwater.
A detailed breakdown of water requirements by crop and month is given in
Annex I, Table 17.
5.03     Farm models 1 and 2 represent about 800 existing holdings of about
5 ha each, and 300 abandoned farms of about 6 ha each, respectively. These
farms previously depended on spate irrigation, supplemented by groundwater.
Since the construction of the Marib Dam, spate flow has been interrupted and
well drilling expanded to permit perennial irrigation, resulting in
significant changes in the cropping patterns. However, falling groundwater
levels caused by the interruption of spate flow has resulted in the
abandonment of several farms. It is expected that within the six-year project
implementation period, most farm holdings would carry out tertiary canal
improvement and about 600 would adopt improved practices (increasing to about
850 at full development). About 402 of these are expected to make further
investments to improve water use efficiency. Because of their proximity to
dunes, many of the abandoned farms have been covered with sand layers,
reaching in some cases to about 40 cm deep. Cultivation of these lands would,
therefore, require the establishment and maintenance of windbreaks.   Once the
dam becomes operative and water begins to flow in the secondary canals,
landowners should be able to cultivate their lands following the original
irrigation distribution system. Also, they are expected to benefit from the
sand dune stabilization program through the establishment of windbreaks
(para. 2.26).
5.04     Farm Model 3, with an estimated 1,900 well-irrigated farms of 3 ha
each (900 lie within the project extension program), is typical of farms which
are not reached by spate flow. Those adjoining the Marib Scheme command area
(about 300 farms) would benefit from groundwater recharge as a result of
discharges from the dam. Farmers in this model are expected to respond
quickly to extension messages once improved practices are demonstrated and
materials are available. Farm Model 4 is representative of farms which have
both spate irrigation and groundwater.  The average holding size is 8 ha, but
not more than 5 ha are cultivated in any one year. There are about 2,000
holdings in this category with about 600 that fall under the project extension
program (200 within the Marib Scheme command area). ERADA would provide
extensive agricultural support services for these 500 farms (models 3 and 4)



-43-
that lie within the Marib Scheme command area. This would result in about 190
farms adopting improved practices by year six of project implementation,
increasing to about 440 at full development. For the remaining 3,400 farms,
agricultural support services would be provided on a pilot basis covering,
under this project, about 1,000 farms; about 750 are expected to adopt
improved practices at full development.. Coverage of the remaining 2,400 farms
would have to be done at a later stage, after ERADA has been better
established, and the data base is expanded.
5.05     Prices.  Input and output prices used in the financial analysis are
average farmgate prices for 1988 (Annex I, Tables 18 and 19). The prices of
domestically produced agricultural commodities, except fruits and vegetables
whose import is restricted or banned, are determined by market forces. The
relatively high product prices of domestically produced agricultural
commodities reflect trade restrictions, high marketing costs, and high input
costs due to inadequate allocation of foreign exchange and high transport
costs. Financial prices of wheat are high partly because of a strong consumer
preference for local prodliction, and partly because only a small percentage of
production enters trade. However, cereal prices are assumed to fall by about
30%-50% over a 7-8 year period and would eventually converge with import
parity prices. Vegetable prices are assumed to fall by about 30% over 5
years, and fruit prices by about 25X.
B. Financial Results
5.06     Financial crop budgets indicate that net returns per ha, after labor
cost, are highest for vegetables and alfalfa (under surface irrigation),
followed by fruits, sesame, and wheat (under surface irrigation) (Annex 1,
Table 20). Under well irrigation, the returns are positive for fruits and
vegetables but low or negative for grain and forage crops. This is due to the
high cost of pumping water and low yields. Those crops which are commonly
grown by farmers of the area would be, until higher yields can be achieved,
gradually phased out from well irrigation cropping patterns and replaced by
higher value crops such as fruits and vegetables. As a result of crop
intensificatien and the application of improved techniques, the annual demand
for labor at full development would increase by about 960 man-years. About
40% of this increase (390 man-years) is expected to be met by family labor,
with the remaining 570 man-years to be met by hired labor (mostly migrant
workers from other areas in YAR and Yemeni laborers returning from the Gulf
countries). The Eastern Region would also compete with the nonfarm sectors
for labor; thus labor requirements at full development reflect a possible
shortage of hired labor. This is expected to stimulate farmers to mechanize
agricultural activities.
5.07     Farm Incomes. The financial returns of farm models are
attractive. Incremental annual farm family benefits at full development would
range from about YRls 28,200 for spate and well-irrigated farms which adopt
extension advice with no investment (4A), to about YRls 64,400 for farms in
the Marib Scheme surface water command area which benefit from extension and
undertake irrigation investments (1B). Returns per family-day of labor (farm
income divided by the number of family labor) would increase substantially for
all farm models; the highest increase would be in models 1 and 2 as detailed
in Table 5.2.



-44-
Table 5.2: FARM INCOME AND RETURNS TO FAMILY LABOR '
Return to
Net Farm Income b/                   Family Labor
(YRls '000 per year)             (YRls/Family Day of Labor)
Farm   No. of    Without    With                          Without        With
Model   Farms    Project   Proiect   Incremental          Project       Project
1B     800          6.9      71.3          64.4             23.0         222.8
2A     180          7.5      62.3          54.8             73.5         194.7
2B     120          7.5      66.9          59.4             73.5         196.8
3A     600          3.2      37.5          34.3             17.3         139.7
3B     300          3.2      42.3          39.1             17.3         132.9
4A     420         12.6      40.8          28.2             47.7         136.0
4B     180         12.6      43.9          31.3             47.7         129.0
a/   At full development for farmers adopting improved technology.
b)/ Net of hired labor.
These benefits can be attributed to (a) the present low level of technology in
the area; (b) increased quantities of surface water from the Marib Scheme with
relatively small investments in tertiary development; (c) the presence of
small/medium size landholders who are expected to quickly adopt improved
techniques and invest in irrigation improvement; and (d) sunk investments
already made in irrigation infrastructure (dam, primary and secondary canals).
C. Taxes and Cost Recover
5.08     Taxes. The project is expected to generate a considerable increase
in the tax base through zakat, a religious tithe, and cooperation taxes.
Zakat is a flat tax on the gross value of production at the rate of 10% for
spate and rainfed areas, and 52 for well-irrigated areas. Cooperation taxes
are 2.5% of the gross value of production of all farms. If fully collected,
incremental annual zakat and cooperation taxes at full development would be
about YRls 12.7 million (US$1.3 million) annually (Annex I, Table 21).
Collection of zakat in Eastern Region is negligible at present; and
improvement in collection will involve a long educational process, stressing
the services these taxes can provide, and increased collection efforts.
5.09     Cost Recovery. Incremental zakat, cooperation tax and water charges
would cover about 65% I/' of the annual recurrent and investment costs of
ERADA, ARA, TA, and the O&M service of the Marib Scheme (Annex I, Table 22).
The annual cost of the O&M service (amortization of investment and
1/ Forty-two percent if 25% of zakat and cooperation tax are collected (with
full recovery of water charges).



-45-
recurrent costs) is estimated at about YRls 13.7 million in 1988 prices. The
full cost of the O&M service would be recovered by Government on a semiannual
basis from surface water beneficiaries of the Marib Scheme (tertiary
collective units). This would be done through a water tariff assessed on a
volumetric basis at outlets of secondary canals, and adjusted periodically
(every three years) taking into account actual costs and inflation.1'.
Written agreements would be signed among beneficiaries of tertiary blocks
regarding water distribution rights, similar to existing agreements to share
spate flow (para. 4.09); this will minimize potential conflicts among
beneficiaries who often belong to the same family or tribe, and it also allows
for more controlled releases of water and regular collection of water
charges. (ERADA/the Advisory Council will maintain close contacts with tribal
leaders to clarify the benefits of the low cost of surface water in relation
to pumped water and that beneficiaries are not charged for the cost of the dam
or primary and secondary canals.) This mechanism represents a departure from
current Government water charge policy followed in other areas, namely, the
collection of a tariff equivalent to 2% of the gross value of farm production,
in addition to zakat, with the objective of recovering recurrent and
investment costs of the O&M service without interest over a period of 20-25
years. To date, this policy has not been effective: collection of zakat is
about 30% while collection of water charges is even less. The water tariff,
estimated at about YRls 0.21/m3 in 1988 prices, is equivalent to 13.5% of
the gross value of crops grown using surface water (6% of the gross value of
farm production). This level of tariff covers 100% of the costs attributed to
the O&M service, including buildings, houses and furniture, staffing and staff
training, construction materials, and vehicles and equipment (Annex I,
Table 23). The Ministry of Finance would collect water charges from
beneficiaries, but Government would provide adequate funds to prefinance the
O&M service of the Marib Scheme (para. 3.26). Assurances regarding the level
of tariff and the provision of adequate funds for the O&M service were
obtained from Government during negotiations ([para. 6.01(d) and (m)]. The
cost of tertiary canals built by ERADA would be fully recovered (including 7%
interest) from beneficiaries over a period of eight years beginning one year
after completion of works, according to a written agreement between ERADA and
beneficiaries. This would amount to about YRls 500/ha (about YR 250/ha
semi-annually); payments would be adjusted to reflect actual costs at the
start of construction works. Collection would be done semiannually.
Assurances to this effect wered obtained from Government during negotiations
[para. 6.01(1)].
5.10     hnpact on Government Budget.  As a result of the project, the
Government would incur by year six an expenditure in 1988 prices of about
US$2.1 million equivalent in annual recurrent costs. This compares to annual
incremental Government revenues of US$1.3 million at full development,
1/   During negotiations, Government proposed to study alternative modes of
water tariff assessment, and submit a proposal to IDA, if any, by June
1989; IDA did not object, provided the alternative proposed is based on
full recovery of the O&M cost, and does not lead to inefficient use of
surface water.



-46-
assuming full collection1' (para. 5.08). Also, the cost recovery of the O&M
service of the Marib Scheme would bring additional annual revenues to the
Government at US$1.4 million equivalent (para. 5.09).
D. Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.11     The main project benefits would result from (a) the introduction of
improved on-farm technology (improved seed and varieties, better land
preparation, pest control and the use of fertilizer); (b) the increase in
surface water with a relatively small investment in the construction of
tertiary canals; and (c) on-farm investments to improve the efficiency of
irrigation water use and to establish fruit orchards, particularly citrus.
The project would also benefit from sunk investments in irrigation
infrastructure (Marib Dam and primary and secondary canal network).
Quantifiable economic benefits of the project would derive from the
incremental production of vegetables and fruits, wheat, sorghum fodder and
alfalfa. In addition, the production of meat and milk (primarily for home
consumption) is expected to increase. At full development, the net value of
farm production at 1988 financial prices is expected to increase by 62%, from
YRls 135 million in the without-project situation (including the dam and the
primary and secondary canals) to YRls 218 million in the with-project
situation.
5.12     BeneficiariesandPovertyAlleviation.  The project is specifically
designed to reach poor farm families (with per capita farm income-2  of less
than US$200 equivalent) who make up 75% of the expected beneficiaries (2,600
farm families of about 15,000 people). Benefits would be realized through
improved productivity in agriculture and increased farm income resulting in
poverty alleviation for these farmers. The project is also expected to
provide 960 man-years of labor, 570 of which would be hired labor for landless
farmers. The project would ultimately benefit an additional 14,200 farm
families (about 90,000 people) through extension and research services in the
region, including Al-.Jawf.
5.13     Economic Prices.  The economic farmgate prices (Annex I, Table 19)
for traded goods (cereals,- citrus fruits and fertilizers) are import
parity prices derived from the Bank's commodity price projections of January
1988. These are expressed in constant 1988 US$ and YRls, with appropriate
adjustment for handling, marketing, and transportation costs. Alfalfa,
fodder, and straw were treated as nontraded goods, and economic prices were
derived by applying a conversion factor of 0.70 to allow for restrictions in
meat imports.- .   For inputs (except fertilizer), and local investments,
1/   US$0.3 million if collection is 25%.
2/   Estimates of nonfarm income (tribal duties, civil service, trade, etc.)
are not available but are assumed to represent about 25% of farm income.
3/   Due to the strong preference of Yemenis for locally grown cereals, a 20%
premium over world prices has been included.
4/   Compared with a standard conversion factor of 0.85.



-47-
the standard conversion factor was applied in economic analysis. The economic
cost of water was assumed to equal the financial cost adjusted for duties
(gasoline is not subsidized and the official exchange rate is about the same
as the market rate). The import parity price of citrus exceeds the economic
price obtained by applying the standard conversion factor; this is due to high
transport costs and quality differentUals. Also, the import parity prices for
vegetables'' are equivalent to economic prices based on the SCF;
consequently, economic prices of fruits and vegetables that are based on the
standard conversion factor were used in economic analysis. It was also
assumed that financial and import parity prices of cereals would converge over
six years, and that economic prices of fruits and vegetables would fall by
25X-30% over 5 years. Due to an expected tight labor situation, the shadow
wage rate for labor was assumed to equal the financial wage rate (incremental
annual labor requirements at full development would be about 960 man-years).
E. Economic Rate of Return
5.14     Economic analysis has been undertaken for the area benefitting from
the Marib Scheme in the Marib Governorate (about 6,000 ha), namely, (a) the
Marib Scheme surface water command area, and (b) the adjoining well and spate
irrigated areas which would benefit from recharging of the aquifer by the
Marib Dam (base case). Also, economic analysis has been undertaken for the
total project, i.e., including the pilot areas covered by the project but
outside the Marib Scheme command areas.
5.15     Quantifiable benefits used in the econoric analysis were derived from
the incremental production of fruits and vegetables, cereals, sesame, fodder
and alfalfa from 1,600 farms on about 8,750 ha. Economic costs, allocated on
the basis of beneficiaries and areas, include: (a) 100% of farm production
investment (including tertiary canal development) and operating costs; (b)
100 of investment costs of additional dam safety measures; (c) 100% of the
investment and recurrent costs of the Marib Scheme O&M service for surface
water; (d) 100% of investment costs of damage repair of the primary BN canal;
and (e) 50% (75% for the total project) of investment and recurrent costs for
ERADA (extension services, veterinary services, and mother tree orchard), ARA,
and technical assistance, training, and studies. The costs of the
construction of the Marib Dam and primary and secondary canals which were
financed by the ruler of Abu Dhabi and specifically earmarked for this purpose
(para. 2.06) were excluded from the economic analysis. All benefits and costs
were calculated in constant 1988 prices. A project life of 25 years has been
assumed and investments replaced when necessary. Since some technological
improvement will occur even in the absence of the project, the without-project
situation reflects correspondingly increased production. On the basis of the
costs and benefits stream outlined in Annex I, Table 24, the economic rate of
return (ERR) is 17.8% for the base cost (16.7% for the total project). The
present value of the net benefits stream, assuming a 12% opportunity cost of
capital, is YRls 50.5 million (YRls 54.6 million for the total project).
Sensitivity analysis (Annex I, Table 25) shows that a 20% increase in costs
reduces the ERR to 12.8% (12.0% for the total project) while a 20% fall in
benefits results in an ERR of 11.5% (10.9% for the total project). A two-year
1/   Considering Jordan as the country of origin.



-48-
lag of benefits gives an ERR of 11.6% (11.2% for the total project).
Switching values analysis indicates that the ERR would not fall below 12%,
despite an 18.7% (16.8% for the total project) reduction in benefits or a
23.0% (20.2% for the total project) increase in costs.
F. Project Risks
5.16     Risks associated with project benefits, costs, the development
period, and implementation delays have been tested in sensitivity analysis.
One risk which could affect project viability, and which other IDA-assisted
projects in YAR have faced in recent years, is inadequate local budgetary
support, resulting in delays in construction, staffing, and implementation.
The risk is minimized, however, by the expected flow of oil revenue in late
1988 and by the importance the Government now attaches to this oil-producing
area. At negotiations, assurances were given by the Government that adequate
funds would be made available to meet recurrent costs of this project
[para. 6.01(d)].
5.17     Another concern involves the tribal nature of the population in the
Marib area and its possible impact on traditional water rights and on the
construction of tertiary canals. To minimize potential problems and tribal
conflicts, and to ensure proper water distribution, the Government has agreed
to require that, prior to the release of dam water, beneficiaries of each
tertiary block sign a written agreement among themselves and with ERADA.
Water distribution rights, the construction and operation of tertiary canals,
and payment of water tariffs to cover the cost of the O&M service of the Marib
Scheme would be covered under this agreement.
5.18     In reviewing the structural design and operational procedures of the
dam, it was found that the dam is safe in the normal operating range.
However, to further increase the safety of the dam, it was agreed among all
parties concerned to provide a filter blanket at the toe of the dam and to
enlarge the stilling basin. Adequate funds have been allocated by Government
for these works. Signing a contract satisfactory to IDA for the execution of
these works is a condition of credit effectiveness [paras. 2.08(a) and 6.03].
5.19     Other risks could arise from the potential contamination of aquifers
with fertilizer and pesticide residues. ARA would establish a program to
monitor if these threats exist and, if so, recommend remedial measures
(para. 3.16).
5.20     Lengthy delays in credit effectiveness have been experienced in
recent projects due to slow credit ratification procedures. Steps proposed to
expedite future processing include the early involvement of the CPO's legal
department in the project cycle. In addition, the Government has agreed to
follow up and expedite ratification procedures. To accelerate project
mobilization, the Government has (a) agreed to acquire land sites needed for
the project by December 1989, and (b) prepared preliminary designs and sample
tender documents for key buildings and equipment. Also, a PPF advance
(P-508-YAR), in the amount of US$400,000, has been established to assist in
early project mobilization and in the establishment of agricultural research,
extension, and O&M services for the Marib Scheme.



-49-
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     Assurances were obtained from the Government of YAR during
negotiations that:
(a)    the Government would complete the repair of the damage of BN
canal by August 1989, and its flood control measures by February
1990 [para 2.08 (b)];
(b)    the Government would appoint qualified and experienced experts
in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.18);
tc)    Government would make available to CACB funds necessary to meet
the incremental credit requirements of the Project under terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and consistent with CACB's
national lending policies in agriculture;
(d)    the Government would make available to ERADA and ARA in a timely
manner sufficient funds to meet the recurrent costs of the
Project (para. 5.16);
(e)    auditing firms with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA would be employed for this project and that a certified copy
of audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, would
be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of each
fiscal year (para. 3.40);
(f)    selection, handling and use of pesticides in research trials and
extension packages would be in accordance with IDA guidelines
(para. 3.41);
(g)    a program would be established by ARA to monitor potential
aquifer contamination with fertilizer or pesticide residues
(para. 5.19);
(h)    a mid-term review of the project would be carried out jointiy by
IDA and the Government of YAR by end June 1992 (para. 4.13);
(i)    ERADA and ARA would prepare annual work plans including
budgetary requirements, and ERADA would consolidate such plans
and submit them to IDA before the end of the ninth month of the
preceding calendar year (para. 4.14);
(j)    ERADA and ARA would prepare one semiannual and one annual
progress report, to be consolidated by ERADA and submitted to
IDA no later than three months following the reports period; the
Government would prepare a PCR and submit to IDA no later than
six months after the credit closing date (para. 4.14);



-50-
(k)    land required for the construction of extension centers and
other remaining facilities would be acquired by Government by
December, 1989, or any such later date as the Association may
agree (para. 4.15);
(1)    Government would collect semiannually from beneficiaries the
full cost of tertiary canals constructed by ERADA amortized over
an eight year period beginning the first year after work
completion (para. 5.09); and
(m)    Government would collect from the beneficiaries (terti-ry
collective unit) that receive surface water from the Marib
Scheme secondary outlets an annual water tariff to cover actual
O&M costs adjusted periodically (every three years) for
inflation and changes in cost (para. 5.09).
(n)    Government would carry out by June 30, 1989 an archaelogical and
historical sites survey in the project area, and, on the basis
of exchanging views with IDA on the findings and recommendations
of the study, carry out a plan for the conservation of
archaelogical and historical sites (para. 3.18).
6.02     Conditionof Credit'Effectiveness. Before credit effectiveness, the
Government would enter into a contract satisfactory to IDA for the
installation of a filter blanket at the toe of the dam and enlargement of the
shilling basin [2.08 (a)].
6.03     Subject to the conditions set out above being met, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDRs 11.0 million (US$15.0 million equivalent)
on standard terms with 40 years maturity. The Borrower would be the
Government of the Yemen Arab Republic.



- 51 -                                                   Annex I
Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Domestic Product by Economic Sectors. 1982-87
Est.
198         198         1984       I9M          1986i       1987
…------------------ (YRls Millions) ------------------------
(At current prices)
Agriculture, forestry and fishing j/               5,035        5.224        6,236       8,033      10,680      12,163
Mining and Quarrying                                 168          190          210         241         506         659
Manufacturing                                      1,720        2.258        2.683       3,465       4,620       5.012
Electricity and water                                138          173          226         257         320         465
Construction                                       1.215        1.255        1,367       1,541       1,285       1.426
Housing and business services                      1,536        1.811        2,178       2,817       3.270       3,955
Trade                                              2,349        2,458        2,866       3,911       4,573       5,199
Transportation and comnunication                   2,209        2,346        2,781       3,489       4,106       4.766
Financial services                                   363          440          582         773         930       1,097
Other private services                               378          397          436         538         659          762
Government services                                2.996        3,145        3.177       3.643       4.088       5,336
Less-accounted-for banking services                 -246         -260         -406         651        -524        -540
GDP at factor cost                          17.861        19.437       22,336      28.057      34.513      40.300
Customs duties/indirect taxes                 2.071        2.433        2.420       2.912       3.876       3.159
GDP at market prices                         19.93^       21.870       2^.7I 7e.9             laIQ         41.45Q
(At constant 1981 prices)
Agriculture, forestry, and fishing                 3,854        3.418        3,414       3,704       4,126       4.221
Mining and quarrying                                 163          178           187        172         424          556
Manufacturing                                      1,627        2,005        2,153       2,404       2.662       2.875
Electricity and water                                138          173          216         239         286         340
Construction                                       1,167        1.159        1,213       1,101         857         878
Housing and business services                      1.506        1.651        1,744       1,878       1.993       2,326
Trade                                              2.289        2,241        2.300       2,380       2,548       2,627
Transportation and comnunication                   2,048        2.038        2.131       2,406       2,549       2.804
Financial services                                   361          433          SSS         558         627         690
Other private services                               374          380           393        410         448         476
Government services                                2.180        2.262        2.769       2,291       2,314       2,578
Less-accounted-for banking services                 -245         -248         -367        -512        -353        -361
GOP at factor cost                           15.462       15.690       16.208      17.031      18.481      20.010
Customs duties/indirect taxes                 22061         261         2.350       2.371       2.736       2.230
GOP at market prices                         17.523       17.951       18.558      19.402      21.217      22.240
Source: Central Planning Organization.
A/ Excluding qat.



- 52 -
Annex
Table 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Sector Develooment - Key indicators
1973-80   1980-87   1982   1983   1984    l         _198fi6  1987
Agriculture Annual Growth Rate (X)  f              6.8        8.7       4.6   -11.3  -0.1    8.5   11.4    2.3
Agriculture as X of GDP a/                          -          -       24.9    21.8  21.1   21.7   22.3   21.1
Source: CPO. IBRO.
A/ At factor cost in constant 1981 prices (excluding qat).



- 53 -
Annex
Table 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELORMENT PROJECT
Imports Classified by Comroditv
1982-85
Percentage
Comnodity Group         I98      1983    1984    1985    1982       1983      198      1215
----------------------- (YRLs Millions) ------------------------
Food and Live Animals       29.3    22.9    22.9    28.4   2,033.1  1,673.3  1.912.0  2,724.0
Beverages and Tobacco         1.7     3.3      3.2     2.3      120.5    237.2    271.0    226.0
Raw Materials                 0.5     0.5      0.5     3.8       34.2     40.4      46.0    363.0
Fuels and Lubricants        11.9      8.9      8.9     6.7      828.4    650.0    743.0    640.0
Animals & Vegetable Oils    0.8       0.6      0.6     2.0       55.8     43.3      49.0    191.0
Chemicals                    6.6      8.4      8.4     8.3      454.5    613.6    701.0    791.0
Class3fled Man. 'oodv        21.6    22.0 ^    2.0    20.e   1.499 ?  1,4?7   1;R21.n  1.914.0
Transport & Mach. Equpmt.  19.3    24.9    25.0    23.1   1,341.6  1,818.1  2,077.0  2,212.0
Miscellaneous Manufactures  7.3       7.0      7.0     5.0      504.6    507.2    580.0    478.0
Non-Classified Comn.          1.0     1.5      1.5     0.4       67.9    107.3    123.0       34.0
TOTAL                 100      100     100      100     6,939.8  7,293.0  8,333.0  9,573.0
Source: CPO



- 54 -
Annex I
Table 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production. Area and Yield of Major Crops. 1982 87
(Production in thousand metric tons: area in thousand
hectares: yield in tons per hectare)
1981   192    1983   1984   198    1           1987
Cereals (total)
Production                    813    760    964    372    419    666    665
Area                          769    830    826    834    833    844    808
Sorghum and millet
Production               635    579    266    271    283    490    477
Area                     617    681    681    694    690    690    653
Yield                   1.03   0.85   0.39   0.39   0.41   0.71   0.73
Wheat
Production                70      67      35      37      64      85    100
Area                       66     61      61      58      59      65      67
Yield                   1.06   1.10   0.57   0.64   1.08   1.31    1.50
Barley
Production                54      53      30      28      32      41      40
Area                       52     52      50      48      46      48      47
Yield                   1.04   1.02   0.60   0.59   0.69   0.85   0.86
Maize
Production                54      59      30      38      44      49      49
Area                       34     36      36      34      38      41      41
Yield                   1.58   1.63   0.84   1.12   1.16   1.20   1.20
Legumes
Production                80      75      40      38      44      47      39
Area                       74     70      70      23      25      27      24
Yield                   1.08   1.08   0.57   1.67   1.77   1.73   1.63
Potatoes
Production                144    148    161    195    220    221         115
Area                       12      12     12       8       9       9       9
Yield                   12.0  12.33  13.42  24.38  24.44  24.55  12.78
Vegetables
Production               287    301    331    346    370    432    45s
Area                       29     31      34      18      19      22      24
Yield                   9.90  10.00   9.73  19.22  19.52  19.64  18.95
Grapes
Production                67      67      74      82      81     107    133
Area                       13      13     14      14      14      15      15
Yield                   5.15   5.15   5.28   5.86   s.78   7.13   8.86
Other Fruits
Production                85      85      85      88      95    104    125
Area                       15      15     15      15      16      16      17
Yield                   5.66   5.68   5.66   5.87   5.94   6.50   7.35
Coffee
Production                 4       3       3       4       4       4       4
Area                        8      8       8      16      16      16      17
Yield                   0.46   0.44   0.42   0.26   0.25   0.25   0.24
Cotton
Production                  5      6       6       4       4       5       5
Area                        5      7       7       6       6       6       6
Yield                   0.94   0.88   0.88   0.66   0.71   0.75   0.75
Tobacco
Production                 6       6       6       5       5       5       5
Area                        6      6       6       3       3       3       3
Yield                   1.00   1.00   0.89   1.66   1.66   1.66   1.66
Sesame
Production                  5      6       4       3       4       4       4
Area                       10     10      10      10      10      10      11
Yield                   0.53   0.55   0.42   0.33   0.42   0.43    0.35
Alfalfa
Production               470    490    490    480    520    580    700
Area                       11     11      11      11      11      12      14
Yield                  42.70  44.50  44.50   43.60  47.30  48.30  50.00
Source: Ministry of Agriculture.



-55-
Annex I
Table 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Production of Fruits and Vegetables and Cereals of
IDA-Financed Projects at Full Development
Year 2000
Proiect             Effectiveness                Incremental Production
Fruits  Vegetables  Total    Sorghum   Wheat
…-_____--- ('000 tons) ----------------
Tihama I                1973           -          9.1        9.1       6.2      -
II               1978          10.0       9.6       19.6       n.a.    n.a.
III              1980          19.4      14.4       33.8       8.4      -
IV               1981          12.1       3.3       15.4        1.1     -
V                1987          27.0      41.0       68.0       18.0     -
SURDP  I                1976           0.6        9.9       10.5      19.7      5.3
II               1981          15.0       6.9       21.9        5.8     2.0
Central Highlands       1986           2.1       12.0       14.1       3.6      1.8
Wadi Al Jawf            1987           2.0        8.6       10.6       0.4      1.7
SRADP                   1988          28.0        9.0      37.0       22.0      9.0
NORADEE                               23.0       26.0       49.0       9.3      0.4
ERADP                                  9.0       15.1       24.1       0.0      4.5
Total                             148.2      164.9     313.1       94.5    25.1
Source: Regional developmient projects SARs.



-56-                             Annex I
Table 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Supply of Fruits and Vegetables in YAR
Year 2000
Fruits   Vegetables   Total        Sorghum    Wheat
------------- ('000 tons) ----------------
1987 Production a/           265.0       565.0      830.0        477.0      100.0
Incremental Production
to be Attained by 2000b'
under IDA Projects
Tihama I                     0           0           0           0          0
II                    0          0           0            0         0
III                   3.9        2.9         6.8          1.7       0
IV                    3.6        2.3         5.9          0.8       0
v                    27.0       41.0        68.0         18.0        0
ot1pll1  T                   Q           n                       n          n
SURDP  II                    4.5         2.1         6.6         1.7        0.6
Central Highlands            1.8         9.6        11.4         2.9        1.4
Wadi Al Jawf                 2.0         8.6        10.6         0.4        1.7
SRADP                       28.0         9.0        37.0        22.0        9.0
NORADEP                     23.0        26.0        49.0         9.3        0.4
ERADP                        9.0        15.1        24.1         0          5.2
Total                        102.8       116.6       219.4        56.8       18.3
Estimated 2000 Production   367.8        681.6    1,049.4        533.8      118.3
Source: IDA and mission estimates.
a/ MAF. 1987 was a normal production year, and hence used as a benchmark.
b/ Prorated since date of effectiveness, and assuming full development is
attained in year 10 (15 years for fruits).



- 57 -                            Annex I
Table 7
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Demand for Selected Commodities in YAR
Commodity        Per Capita Demand kg/yr            Total Demand - '000 tons
1985    1990    1995    2000    1985    1990    1995    2000
Vegetables    52.5    58.5    64.4    70.3         360     463       596    765
Potatoes       22.6    24.6    26.5    28.4        155     195       245    309
Subtotal    75.1    83.1    90.9    98.7        515      658       841  1,074
Fruits         40.7    45.9    51.1    56.4        279     363       473    613
(Oranges)   (2.9)   (3.4)   (3.9)   (4.6)    (20)    (27)          (36)   (50)
Total Fruits 115.8   129.0   142.0   155.1         794   1,021    1,314  1,687
& Vegetables
Sorghum        72.0    70.9    69.8    69.8       492      562       647    760
Wheat          90.2   101.5   114.3   128.6        618     805    1,059  1,400
Source: FAO



- 58 -
Annex I
Table 8
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Vehicles and Major Equipment and Machinery
Marib Scheme
ERADA       ARA        O&M Service        Total
Vehicles
4wd Long                    5            5             1               11
4wd Short                  14            3             4               21
4wd Pickups                 9            4             6               19
Truck (3 ton)               1            2             2                5
Dump Truck (15 ton)         -            -             2                2
Motorcycles                21            -            18               39
Equipment and Machinery
Tractor (60-70hp)           -            2             1                3
Tractor Implement (sets)  -              2             _                2
Trailers                    -            2             1                3
Threshers                   2            2             -                4
Choppers                    2            2             -                4
Motorize Sprayers           4            4             -                8
Seed cleaners               2            2             -                4
Harvesters                  4            2             -                6
Levellers                   2            2             -                4
Fertilizer Spreaders        2            2             -                4
Seeders                     2            2             -                4
Audio Visual Aids (sets)  1              -             -                1
Workshop Equipment (sets) -              2             1                3
Tractor (150-160hp)         -            -             I                1
Front End Loader (75hp)   -             -              2                2
Motor Grader (150hp)        -            -             2                2
Water Tanker (15 ton)       -            -             2                2
Compacting Roller (10 ton)         -                   1                1
Compressor                  -1                                          1



- 59 -
Annex I
Table 9
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Locations of Extension Centers
Location                                   Population
Within Marib Scheme
Marib                                       9,800
Husn Al Jalal                              4,300
Al Hazmah                                   7,400
Masil Al-Allah                              2,500
Marda                                      5,550
Outside Marib Scheme
Al-Jubah                                  11,850
Sirwah                                      7,300
Jabal Murad                                4,650
Harib                                     23,800



- 60 -                         Annex I
Table 10
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
Staff
Technical Assistance                       No.   Months      Date of Appointment
Agriculture
Senior Research Officer                  1      42        December 1, 1988±'
Cereals Specialist                       1      36        October 1, 1989
Livestock Production Specialist          1      36        January 1, 1990
Horticulturist                           1      42        January 1, 1990
Irrigation Agronomist                    1      36        October 1, 1989
Plant Protectionist                      1      36        October 1, 1989
Extension Planning/Training Expert       1      36        December 1, 19881'
Women in Development Expert              1      36        July 1, 1990
Veterinary Adviser                       1      42        July 1, 1990
Livestock Associate Expert               i      42        December 1, 19881'
Horticulture Associate Expert            1      42        December 1, 1988±'
Soils Associate Expert                   1      36        July 1, 1990
Engineering/O&M
Dam O&M Engineer                         1      42        December 1, 19881'
Irrigation Engineer                      1      36        January 1, 1990
Hvdrologist/Hydrogeologist               1      36        October 1, 1989
Design Egnineer                          1      36        January 1, 1990
Short-term Consultancies/ Studies
Archaeology Study                                2        June 1, 1989
Tertiary Canal Development                       6        December 1, 1988a'
Flood Protection                                 6        January 1, 1990
Dam Inspection                                   3        January 1, 1990
Training (72 s/m)
Engineering                                     36        January 1, 1990
Agriculture                                     36        January 1, 1990
a/ Financed under PPF (P-508-YAR).



- 61 -                                               Annex  I
Table 11 (a)
YEMEN AR RMEPUILIC
ERADP
SUMMYRY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
(YRls '000)                                       (USS '000)
_  _    _  _  _ -- --  . -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
Z Total                                         Z Total
Z Foreign  Base                                Z Foreign  Base
Local    Foreign   Total    Exchange   Costs    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORXS                         20,472.0  30,088.0  50,560.0          60      25   29099,7  3,085.9  5,185.6          60      25
B. VEHICLES                               445.9   8,472.1   8,918.0          95       4      45.7    868.9    914.7          95       4
C. EQUIPMENT                            2,637.2  22,256.8  24,894.0          89      12     270.5  2,282.7  26553,2          89      12
B. EXPERTS                              1,660.5  31,549.5  33,210.0          95      16     170.3  3,235.8  3.406.2          95      16
E. TERTIARY CANALS                      5,100.0   7,65040  12,750.0          60       6     523.1    784.6  14307.7          60       6
F. FOREIGN TRAINING                       126.0   2,394.0   2,520.0          95       1      12.9    245.5    258.5          95       1
G. ON - FARM DEVELOPMENT               10,074.3  15,314.7  25,389.1          60      12   1,033.3  1,570.7  2r604#0          60      12
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                    40,515.9 117,725,1 158,241,1          74      77   4,155.5 12,074.4 16,229.9          74      77
Phusical Contingencies                  5,330.2  13,659.4  18.989.6          72       9     546.7  1,401.0  1.947.7          72       9
Price Contingencies                    24,135.5  60,284.0  84,419.5          71      41     968,7  2.401.2  3,369.9          71      16
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES             69,981.6 191,668.5 261,650.2          73     127   5.670.9 15,876.5 21,547.4          74     102
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                           37PS23.0          -  37,527 0          -      '8   3;84i5          -  31848.5          -      18
B. LOCAL TRAINING                        933.0          -     933,0          -       0      95.7         -     95.7          -       0
C. VEHICLE OIM COSTS                   3,928.5   3.928.5   74857,0          50       4     402.9    402.9    805.8          50       4
D. EXTENSION FIELD DEMONSTRATIONS        228.0      228.0     456.0         50       0      23.4      23.4     46.8         50       0
E. RESEARCH INPUTS                       395.0      395.0     790.0         50       0      40.5      40.5     81.0         50       0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     434007.5   4,551.5  47,559.0          10      23   4,411.0    466,8  4P877.8          10      23
Physical Contingencies                  2,150.4      227.6   2.378.0         10       1     220.6      23.3    243.9         10       1
Price Contingencies                    27,140.9   2,870.2  30,011.0          10      15   1,095.9    115.9  1,211.8          10       6
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES             72,298.7   7,649.2  '°,948.0          10      39   5,727.5    606.0  6,333.5          10      30
z= = ===z    =     == ====== = z ====== ZZZ==  ====== == ======== z... .=====z          ==z="=
Total BASELINE COSTS                       83,523.4 122,276.6 205,800.1          59     100   8,566.5 12,541.2 21,107.7          59     103
Physical Contirgencies                   7,480.6  13,887.0  2;,367.6          65      10     767.2  1,424.3  2,191.5          65      10
Price Conti.jencies                     51,276.4  63,:54.1 114.430.5          55      56   2.064.6  2^517.0  4,581.7          55      22
Total PROJECT COSTS                       142t280.4 199,317.7 3419598.1          58     166  .1,398.4 1,482.5 27,880.9          59     132
===== ==== ====z ===  z= z=z = ========= =======  = ====== -=== ======== = =====-=       === ="



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
ERADP
Suaaarv Account bi Project Cosponerit
CYRIs '000)
RE8IONAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
--------------------------------- -MARI  SCHEME DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL   ------------------------                               Physical
ASSISTANCEY                 TERTIARY                              Cos,tirigencies
SUPFORT TO SU'PPORT TO TRAINING I                DISTRIBUTION    ON-FARM                  -- ---------
ERADA       ARA        STUDIES    OLM SERVICE    SYSTEM       DEVELuPMENT   Total        Z    Anownt
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                            24,128.0   18J200.3                    8,232.0             -             -   50,560.0  15.0  7s584.0
B. VEHICLES                                4,730.0    2,257.0             -        931,0             -             -    8,918.0  10.0    891.8
C. EQUIPMENT                               3,644.0    6,850.0             -      4t400.0             -             -   24,B94.0  10.0  2t489.4
D. EXPERTS                                       -           -    332210.')             -            -             -   33210.0  10.0  3,321.0
E. TERTIARY CANALS                               -           -            -             -     12,750.0             -   12i750.0  15.0  1v912.5
F. FOREIGN TRAINING                              -           -     2,520,0              -            -             -    2,520.0  10.0    252.0
G. ON - FARM DEVELOPMENT                         -           -            -             -            -      25S389.1   25,389.1  10.0  26538.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                       32,502.0   27,307.0    35,730.0       24,563.0      12,750.0      25r389.1  158y241.1  12.0 18P989.6
II. RECUURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                              16,212.0   15,081.0             -      6230.0              -             -   37J523.0   5.0  1w876.2
B. LOCAL TRAINING                           315.0           -            -        618.0             -             -       933.0   5.0      46.7
C. VEHICLE 02  COSTS                     5,580.0    2,277.0             -             -            -             -    7,857.0   5.0    392.9
D. EXTENSION FIELD DEMONSTRATIONS           456.0           -            -             -            -             -       456.0   5.0      22.8
E. RESEARCH INPUTS                              -       790.0            -             -            -             -       790.0   5.0      39.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                        22,563.0   18,148.0             -      6,848.0             -             -   47,559.0   5.0  2P378.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                          55,065.0   45,455.0    35,730.0       31,411.0      12,750.0      25,389.1  205,800.1  10.4 21l367,4
Phtsical Contingencies                      5,584.8    4,548.1      3,573.0       3,210.3       1,912.5       2,538.9   21'367.6   0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                        309530.6   24,748.5    13,773.5'      16,184.5       9,195.1      19,997.8  114,430.5   9.2 10,482.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                           91,180.4   74,751.6    53,076.9       50,805.8      23,B57.6      47,925.8  341,598.1   9.3 31,849.7
Foceign Exchange                           40,420.5   33,170.8    509423.0       32.077.3      14,314.6      28#911.5  199,317.7  10.2 20,327.0
- 



TENEN AAB REFiEUBC
8rro.ect Cox;;rientr b, Year
T3ta': 1rc.dira           ;                                    Totals 'ncluding Contingencies
:YRS 'OCG,                                                      (USS  00C)
1   2   3   4  .  6      Total         I               3       4        5       6     Toa.
A. REGIONAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
SUPPORT TO ERADA                                    306.1 16,072.3  26.,'39.3 21,767.: 14)992.6 1;,532-,  91;8;.4    28.5 ;,401.8 2,224.0 1svM8.2 1,167.3   863.2  7,443.0
SUPPORT TO ARA                                      470.2  9,666.0  279,267,5 18,428.4  7,876.6  9042.` 74,751.6        43.7   843.0 2,452,6 l,488.5   613.3   678.6  6,119.8
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAINiNG I STUDIES         :1.588.3 15,211,4  :6,,59.7  7,888.0  :,032.7  276.   53,o76.9  1,078.1 1,326.7 1,345.8   637.1   158.3    22.3  4,568.3
Sub-Total REGIONAL 'INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT       :2,364.7 40,949.7  71,866.5 489083'5 :4,902.0 20,842.5 219,008.9 ;,150.4 3s571.5 6,02.4 3,883.9 1,938.8 1,564.1 18,131.0
B. MARIB SCHEME DEVELOPMENT
OLi SERVICE                                          67,.4  Z5081.0  7,'s367.8 8168.0  3,342.2  3,779.5  50,805.8       6.3   443.1 2F544.8   659.8   260,2  283.6  4,197,8
TERTIARY DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                                  677.9   2,462.1  6,37:.  6b,892.:  7,443.6  23,85a.6         -    59.1   206.3   515.5   536.6   558.6  1,876.1
Sub-Total MARIB SCHEME DEVELOPMENT                      67,4  5,758.9   ..32,89. 14,549.7 1v,234.5 ll,223.2  74,663.4        6.3  5023 2,751.1 1l175,2   796.8   842.2  6,074.0
C, ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT                                      -    '145.2    ':7,0  62%96.7 13,149.8 27P,17,0  47,925.8         -    12.7   43.3  508.6 1,023.8 2,087*5  3,671.9
…__    _  ------- _---------…--- ----   ---------   -------   -----__-__-___-__   ___ -_-__ -_____   _______  ______   _- ____- _____- __
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   12,432.1 46F853.8 105,213.3 68,929.9 489266.3 59,882.7 341,598.1  1,156.6 4,086.4 8,816.9 5,567.7 30759.4 4,493.9 27,880.9
--  -
I-



- 64 -
Annex I
Table 12
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credita'
IDA Fiscal Year/               Semiannual             Cumulative              X of
Semester Ending               Disbursements          Disbursements         Total Credit
=--- (US$ Million Equivalent) ----
1990  June 30, 1990                 1.3b/                 1.3                    8.7
1991  December 31, 1990             0.7                   2.0                   13.3
1991  June 30, 1991                 1.3                   3.3                   22.0
1992  December 31, 1991             1.0                   4.3                   28.7
1992  June 30, 1992                 1.2                   5.5                   36.7
1993  December 31, 1992             1.3                   6.8                   45.3
1993  June 30, 1993                 1.2                   8.0                   53.3
1994  December 31, 1993             1.3                   9.3                   62.0
1994  June 30, 1994                 1.5                  10.8                   72.0
1995  December 31, 1994             1.2                  12.0                   80.0
1995  June 30, 1995                 1.1                  13.1                   87.3
1996  December 31, 1995             0.9                  14.0                   93.3
1996  June 30, 1996                0.6                   14.6                   97.3
1997  December 31, 1996             0.4                  15.0                  100.0
a/ Closing Date: December 31, 1996.
b/ Part of PPF Advance, for which disbursement is expected to begin in November
1988.
3 1 3 0 C1 1



- 65 -
Annex I
Table 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DWVELOPMENT PROJECT
ERADP 1989 SCHEDULE OF IMPLEMENTATION
I.   Procurement of Key Buildings, Equipment and Vehicles
(a) Preparation of Preliminary Design and
Tender Documents                                11/88
(b)  IDA Review                                      12/88
(c)  Finalization of Documents/Announcements         02/89
(e)  Evaluation of Bids                              06/89
(d)  IDA Review                                      07/89
(f)  Contracting                                     11/89
(g)  Mobilization/Execution                          01/89
II    Recruitment of Key Experts/Consultants
(a)  Selection of Candidates/Firms                   06/89
(b)  IDA Review                                      07/89
(c)  Contracting to Begin                            11/89
III    Recruitment of Key Local Staff                       Number
(a)  ERADA                                              6
(b)  ARA                                                4
31 30C 1 2



- 66 -
Annex I
Table 14
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTj
Key Project National Staff
Pre-            Project Years
Project   1    2    3    4    5    6    Incremental
ERADA (Headquarters)
Chairman                              1     1    1    1    1    1    1
Director General                      -     -    1    1    1    1    1          1
Internal Auditor                      -     -    -    1    1    1    1          1
Planning Monitoring & Eval. Officer  -      1    1    1    1    1    1          1
Public Relation Officer               1     1    1    1    1    1    1          _
Director Administration & Finance    1      1    1    1    1    1    1          -
Chief Accountant                      -     1    1    1    1    1    1          1
Director Engineering                  1     1    1    1    1    1    1          -
Irrigation Engineer                   -     -    1    1    1    1    1          1
Hydrologist/Hydrogeologist            -     -    1    1    1    1    1          1
Design Engineer                       1     1    1    1    1    1    1          -
Field Engineer                        2     2    2    2    2    2    2
Director Agriculture                  1     1    1    1    1    1    1          -
Ext. Planning/Training Officer        -     1    1    1    1    1    1          1
Ext. Subject Matter Specialist        7 _/  7    7    7    7    7    7          -
Women in Development Officer          -     -    -    1    1    1    1          1
Veterinarian                          -     -    -    -    1    1    1          1
Ext. Subject Matter Specialist        -     -    -    -    2    2    2          2
Extension Supervisor                  -     -         1    1    1    1          1
Extension Agents                      4     -    S    8    9   10  10           6
Veterinary Assistants                 4     -    S    6    7    7    7          3
O&M Service
Director                              1     1    1    1    1    1    1          -
Supervisors/Inspectors                6     6    7    8    8    8    8          2
Operators                             6     6    8   12   14   16   16         10
Mechanics                             1     1    2    2    3    3    3          2
Gauge Recorder                        1     1    1    2    2    2    2          l
Subtotal                                                              36
ARA (Marib-Eastern Region Headquartes)
Director                              1     1    1    1    1    1    1          -
Accountant                            -     -    1    1    1    1    1          1
Research Officers                     3     5    5    6    6    7    7          4
Research Assistants                   4     -    5    6    8    8    8          4
Al-Jawf Governorate
Station Manager                       1     1    1    1    1    1    1          -
Research Officer                      1     2    2    2    2    2    2          1
Research Assistants                   3     4    5    6    6    6    6          3
Subtotal                                                               12
a/ Of whom about 10 would require M.Sc. equivalent, 24 B.Sc. equivalent. and
14 secondary level educations.
3130C13



- 67 -
Annex I
Table 15
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cultivated and Cropped Areas (ha) and Percent of Cropping Intensity A/
Without           With
Project           Project                  Incremental
Within Marib Scheme Command Area
Cultivated Area (ha)              4,220             6,000                     1,780
Cropped Area (ha)                 5.030 (5,690)    7.700 (8,650)             26.670 (2.960)
% Cropping Intensity                119   (135)        128   (144)                 9     (9)
Outside Marib Scheme Command Area
Cultivatul Area (ha)              2,660             2,76S                        105
Cropped Area (ha)                 2.880 (3,240)    3.050 (3.500)                 170   (260)
% Cropping Intensity                108   (122)        110   (127)                 2     (5)
Total Project
Cultivated Area (ha)              6.880             8.765                     1.885
Cropped Area (ha)                 7.900 (8.900)   10.750 (12,100)             2.850 (3,200)
X Cropping Intensity                11S   (129)        123    (138)                S     (9)
A/ Numbers between parenthesis account for double the physical area occupied with
perennial crops.
313OC14



YEMEN ARAS REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Future Yields. Areas and Production
Yields (tons/ha)                           Areas ('000)                                      Production ('000 tons)
_________- Future 1/ ------------                       Future b/                                      --------- Future _/ -----------
Without    With       % Incremental                  Without      With    Incremfental                 Without    With        Incremental
Croos                 Present  Proiect   Proiect           Yield          Present   Project   Prolect          Areas         Present   Project   Protect   Production
Sesame                        0.5      0.6         0.9            SO            650       650        609           (41)            0.3        0.3         0.4          0.1
Wheat                         1.4      1.7         2.7            59          2,970    2,970       3,856           886             4.1        5.0         9.5          4.5
Maize                         -        1.8         3.0            66              -         -        369           369             -           -          1.1          1.1
Sorghum Grain                 0.6      0.6         0.6             -          1,800    1,800       1,800             -             1.1         1.1        1.1          -        I
Sorghum Fodder                -        -          30.0             -              -         -        455           455             -           -         15.1         15.1      cr
Alfalfa                      55.0    60.0         78.0            30            620       620        549           (71)           34.1       37.2       40.0           2.8      oo
Vegetables (Summer) _/        9.0    11.0         17.0            54            620       620        829           209             5.6        6.8        12.8          6.0
Vegetables (Winter) d/        9.0    11.0         16.5            50            850       850      1,245           395             7.7        9.4        18.5          9.1
Fruits (Citrus) _/            9.0    12.0         16.0            33            400       400        782           382             3.6        4.8        13.8 g/       9.0
A/  At full yield development of adopters of improved practices.
>/  At full development.
c/  Mainly tomatoes.
_/  Mainly watermelon and potatoes.
g/  Includes new orchards at year 15.
I r 
(D X
_ 1-



- 69-                                          Annex I
Table 17t
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
VASTM  El ION IGRICULTURAL D3VO=W   CUT
a                    .uCONAND AREa NET NATER REUUIREMENTS (THOUSAND *3)                                           a
SURFACE WATER
APR   HAY    JUN   JUL   Aou  SEP   OCT   NOV   DEC   JAN   FEB   MAR   TOTAL
. ALFALFA              P     592   675    704       0      0   627   512   454   387   406   454   S28    329
WHEAT/BARLEY         1        0     0       0     0      0  3120  4306  4524  4555  2527        0     0  19032
SESBAE               S      541   710    397      0      0     0      0     0      0     0   240   253   2131
'SOR6UNI fodder)       S     579   618    696       0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0   1393
? MIZAE                5     698   682    594       0      0     0      0     0      0     0   360   320  2854
I VEGETABLES (s)       S     173   177    205       0      0     0      0     0      0     0   107   111    773
VEGETABLES (v)       H        0     0       0     0      0    95   186   126   124   139    86        0    756
ICITRUS                p        0     0       0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0       0
SUBTOTAL                  2573  3062   2586       0      0  3842  5004  5104  5066  3072  1247  1212  32763
I SUMMER               100  1991  2387   1882       0      0     0      A     0      0     0   707   6Q4   7651
WINTER               100      0     0       0     0      0  3215  4492  4650  4679  2666    86        0  19788
t PERENNIALS           100   582   675    704       0      0   627   512   454   387   406   454   526   5329
SUBTOTAL             100  2573  3062   2586       0      0  3842  5004  5104  5066  3072  1247  1212  3176U
FRON AQUIFER (COP. AREA) 1397  1607   1845  3399  2392  1279  1428  1067   970  1061  1236  1003  1Ism
TOTAL                     3970  4669   4431  339   2392  5121  6432  6171  6036  4133  2483  2215  51452
t                   CINSIWID AREA NET WATER RE9UIK JENTS (THOUSAND m3)
GROUND WATER
1I                          APR   NAY   JUN   JUL   AGU   SEP   OCT   NOV   8EC   JAN   FEB   MAR   TOTAL
::ALFALFA              P                         720   685                                                  1405
!IIHEAT/BARLEY         N                                                                                       O
I:SESAME               S
115OR6UN (fodder)      S        0     0      0   675   357      0      0     0      0     0      0     0   10321
!:MAIZE                S        0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0       01
I,VEGETABLES (s)       S      620   638   766   908   370       0      0     0      0     0   330   348   3980
IYVEGETABLES (4)       N        O     O      O     0      0   380   744   504   494   556   343        0   3021
ttCITRUS               P      777   969  1079  1096   980   899   684   563   476   505   563   655   9246
::SUBTOTAL                   1397  1607  1845  3399  2392  1279  1428  1067   970  1061  1236  1003  18684 t
tI                   NONECONNAND AREA NET WATER REOUIREMENTS (THOUSAND .3)
IISUBTOTAL                    596   698   728   713   530   825   977   891   853   661   452   403   8317
11                         TOTAL AREA GROUND WATER REQUIREMENTS (THOUSAND .3)
OITOTAL NET                  1993  2295  2573  4112  2922  2104  2405  1958  1823  1722  1688  1406  27001 t
IITOTAL 610N9                3833  4413  4948  7908  5619  4044  4625  3765  3506  3312  3246  2704  51925
-- - - - - -;    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 70 -
Annex I
(EMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                           anne  I
Eastern Region Agricultural Development Projet                               Table  18
FINANCIAL PRICES
96/97 to
Unit   89190   90/91   91i92   92/'93   93394   94/9Z' .1'9           3 ;1i114
Outputb
wheat                       kg        4.5     4.3      4.1      3.9      3.7      3.5     3.3         I
Maize                       kg        4.5     4.2      3.9      3.o      3.3        3     2.7       2.
Sorghum Grain               ks        4.5     4.2      3.9      3.6      3.3        3     2.i       2.3
S.Fodder                    kg        0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4       u.4
Sesaie                      kg         25      25       25       25       '5       25       5        2r
Alfalfa                     kg        0.7     0.7      0.7      0.7          0.7      0.7  .        u.7
Vegetables.s                kg          3     2.8      2.6      2.4        2      2.1     2.1       2.1
Vegetables.w                kg          4     3.8      3.5      3.3      3.1      2.8     2.8       2.8
fruits                      kg          5     4.8      4.5      4.3        4     3.8      3.8       3.6
wheat straw                 Kg          2        2                I        2        2        2
maize straw                 kg          I        1       1        1        1        1        1         1
S.Stover                    kg        1.2    1.       ;-^      1.2      1.2      1,2     1.2       1,2
I nPULt
Wheat                       kg        5.5     5-5       .5      5.5      5.5      5.5     5,5       5,5
Maize                       kg        5.5 I    .       5.5      5.5      5.5      5,5     5.5       J."
Sorghum                     kg        5.5     5.5      5,5      5,5      5.5      J.5     5,5       r.r
Sesame                      kg         30       30      30       3C       30       30      30        3G
Alfalfa                     kg         50       50      5G       S0 5s             V       S 
UVgetable.s                 Kt        400     400      400      400      400      4CG     43G       433
Vegetable.w                 kg        420     420      420      420      420      420     420       421
Fruits                      k4         80      so       so       so       80       80      80        8C
Shelter                     kg         30       30      30       30       3v       30      30        30
Mlanure                     kA        0.2     0.2      0.    2           0. 2      . 0    0I.2      0.2
Fertilizer Unit             kg       11.4       ;1    10.6    10.2       9.8      ?.4       9       S.v
Chemicals                   kg        200     200      230      2C0      2G      200      200 '2J
Tractor hire               hour       100     100      :00      1GG      lGO 100   0      100       13
ThreshiAg                  hour       1iv iv           ;3 M     10       I1GG    1GG      lOGv
Bagsy1Boxes                bag          2       2        2        2        2                          2
Pumping Cost Without         3        2.i     2.1      2.1      2.2.                      2.1       2;.1
Pumping Cost With           o3        1.6     1.6      1.6    1;6        i.6      1.a     ;.o       ; D
Surface Cost Without        .3        0.8       8      0.8      v.8      3.8     0.8       A        0.9
Surface Cost With           .3        0.4     0.4       . 4     v.4      0.4     0.4      0.4        .4
Puspinrg Improved Cost      .3        1.o  !.   6      1.6  o1.6  ; .             1   1.6  .        1.6
Tertiarv Canals             ha     3,0C0   3P,03   3.000   3,003   3,3V0   3.000   3 003    3,000
Internal Disbtributior    ha       1,500   1,530   :5001  ;,0G   1,50   1500   1,500 li530
Lard Levelling              ha    lOOO   10,0000  10,00 1000 lv0G       0   :3.000 1O 3    Cc   13,000
Land Smoothing              ha     2OO0  2M000   29000   2000   2.000   2,J-00   2.00    2,3 i03
Windbreaks                  ha      1,500   1,500   1,500   1,00   1500   1,500   1,533    .O%9
Mechanization              Unit    6,000   6,000   6,000   6000   6,OO    6,000   6,O00           6,000
Labor
Labor                     mandav      100     100      100      100      100      100     100v      1



- 71 -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                        Annex  I
Eastern Region Agricultural Development Project                            Table  19
Economic Pr:ces
&.YR)
cropP Ved'
99il3G to 10l,102 tu
Unit   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93fl4   94, 95   t5,'96   96/97   97i?S8  98/99   1v/ 13v1   113/114
output'.
wheat                      kg        2.9     2.9      2.8      2.8     2*8      2.9      2.9     2.9      2.9     2.9          3
Maize                      kg        1.9        2     1.9        2      2    .1 2.2      2.3     2.4        4      2.4       2.4         2.4
Sorghus Grain              kg        1.9      1.9     1.9        2      2.1     2.1      2.2     2.3      2.3     2.3        2.3         2.3
S.Fodder                   kg        0,3      0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3     G.3      0.3     3.3        0.3         0.3
Sesase                     kg         25       25      25       25      25       25       25      25       25       25        25          2S
Alfalfa                    kg        0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5     v.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5        0.5         0.S
Vegetables.s               kg        2.6      2.4     2.2      2.1      1.9     1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8      1.8       1.8         1.8
Vegetables.w               kg        3.4      3.2       3      2.8     2.6      2.4      2.4     2.4      2.4     2.4        2.4         2.4
fruit,                     kg        4,3     4.1      3.9      3.7     3.4      3.2      3.2     3.2      3.2     3.2        3.2         3,2
wheat strai                kg        1,4      1.4     1.4      1.4     1,4      1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4     1.4        1.4         1.4
maize straw                kg        0.7      0.7     0.7      0.7     0.7      0.7      0.7     0.7      0.7     0.7        0.7         0.7
S.Stover                   kg        0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8     G.8      0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8        0.8         0.8
InPuts
'heat                      kg        4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7     4.?        4.7         4,7
Maize                      kg        4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7     4,7      4i7    4,7   4.7          4;7    4,7 477                 4,
fl _ _ ,L. _   L g  i '  4 7  s r  4                A        A       A !      A        .t '         '        .1
Sesame                     kg       25.5    25.5    25.5    25.5    25.5    25.5    25.5    25.5    25.5    .5.5            25.5         5.5
Alfalfa                    kg       42.5    42.5    42.5    42.5    42.5    42.5    42.5    42.5    42.5    42.5            42.5        4^.J
Vegetable.s                kg        340      340     340      340     340      340      340     340      340     340        340         340
vegetable.w                kg        357      357     357      357     357      357      357     357      357     357        357         'lui
Fruits                     kg         68       68      68       68      68       68       68      68       68      68         68          66
Shelter                    kg 2s 55    25.5    2555    25.5    25.5    25.5    25.5 25 55    25.5    25.5                   25.5        25.5
Manure                     kg        0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     3.2      0.2     0.2        0.2         O.2
Fert.iler Unit            kg        5.9      6.4     7.3      7.5     7.6      7.7      7.9       8      8.l     6.2        6.3         8.4
Chemicals                  k9        170      170     170      170     170      17O 0    i7O     170      170     10         170:
Tractor hire              hour        85       85      8S        85      85      85       85      85       85      85         85          8I
Threshing                 hour        85       85     8        85      85       85       85      85       85      85         85          EJ
82s/Boxes                bai        1.7      1,      1.1      1'l      1.7     1.7      1.7     1..7     1.7     1.7        1., ,    1.7
PuhFind Cost Without       M3          2        2       2        .        2       2        I       ^        2       2
Pugpinis Cost With         M3        1.5      1.5     1     .5     1.5      1.5      1.5  l.    .1.5    155                  1.5
Surface Cost Without        m3       0.8      0.8     0.8      G.8     0.8      0.8      0.8     0.6      0.8    O1.8         .a         :.a
Surface Cost With           3        0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     ;.4        u.4         0.4
Pumping Improved Cost       3        i.5      1.5     1         .5      '.5              1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5        1.5
Tertiarv Canals            ha      2S550   2S550   2,550   2,550   2,5J5O   2550   2,550   2Y550   2,550   2550 ^:550                  2vZIC
Internal Dssbtributi3n    ha       1,275   1,275   1,275   1,275   1,275   1275   1,275   1,275   1,275   iS 5             l,:;5       1,275
Land Levellirng            ha      89500   8,510    ,S500   8S500   3.5v00   8v500   8,50   8S500   8o',00   8,510         69500       8,;500
Land Smoothing             ha      1,700   1,700   1,730   1P703   1,00 1'700   1,70 0             1,73   7 i,7.: G J       .700       197OC
Windbreaks                 ha      1,275   1,275   114,25   1,275   1,2'5   1,275   1,275   1,275   1,275   l:7J5    1.2:;              ,25
Mechanization             Unit    51300   5,100   5,100   5lO0   SlO   5,100   5,100   5,130   5,100   5.130            5,13Vv      5P1X
Ldur1
Labor                    manidas     100      100     100      100     100      100      100     100      1-Jo    110         110



YEMEN ARAB EUPlLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Crop Budaets at Full .evelopmentA
(YRls '000/ha)
Gross Val.                                       Tractor/       Irrig.                  Total       Income       Labor    Net Rtns.
Croo                            Of Product   Seed        Fertilizer Chemicals  Mach. Hire   Cost            Other        Inouts   Bef. Labor   Cost         Per Ha
Wheat surface                        15.7       0.7          0.7          0.4        1.1          2.9          0.1         5.8         9.9          5.5        4.4
Wheat pumped                         15.7       0.7          0.7          0.4        1.1          9.9          0.1        12.9         2.8          5.5       (2.7)
Maize surface                        14.2       0.3          0.7          0.4        1.0          3.8          0.1         6.2         8.0          4.7        3.3
Maize pumped                         14.2       0.3          0.7          0.4        1.0         12.9          0          15.4        (1.1)         4.7       (5.9)
Sorghum fodder surface               20.0       0.1          0.7          0.4        1.4          4.7          -           7.3        12.7         10.0        2.7
Sesame surface                       22.5       0.2          0.4          0.2        1.0          3.2          -           5.1        17.4         10.0        7.4
Sesame pumped                        22.5       0.2          0.4          0.2        1.0         10.9          -          12.8         9.7         10.0       (0.3)
Alfalfa surface                      54.6       0.2          0.9          0.2        1.8         10.1          -          13.1        41.5         24.0       17.5       1
Alfalfa pumped                       54.6       0.2          0.9          0.2        1.8         34.3          -          37.4        17.3         24.0       (6.8)
Vegetable summer surface             35.7       0.4          0.9          0.8        2.0          4.2          1.4         9.7        26.0         13.6       12.4
Vegetable summer pumped              35.7       0.4          0.9          0.8        2.0         14.3          1.4        19.8         15.9        13.6        2.3       X
Vegetable winter surface             46.2       0.4          0.9          0.8        2.9          2.8          1.3         9.0        37.z         16.5       20.7
Vegetable winter pumped              46.2       0.4          0.9          0.8        2.9          9.5          1.3        15.7        30.5         16.5       14.0
Orchard existing (surface)           57.0       -             1.3         1.0        2.0         26.0          1.68/      31.9        25.1         20.0        5.1c
Orchard new (surface)               60.8        0.4           1.5         1.2        2.4         26.0          1.78/      32.8        28.0         20.0        8.0C/
a/  At full development with project, 1988 prices; differences due to rounding.
h/ Bags, manure and boxes.
c/  If orchard establishment is considered (over 50 years at OCC=10%) net returns per hectare would be 1.7 and 4.3, respectively.
31 30CI 1
0



- 73 -
Annex I
Table 21
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Incremental Annual TaxesA
(YRls '000)
Incr.    Incremental
Incremental       Zakat    Cooperation   Incremental  Incremental
No. of   Gross Value         per        Tax per       Total Tax    Total Tax
Farm Model                Farms    of Production    Farm            Farm        per Farm      All Farms
1. Marib Scheme Surface/Well-currently Irrigated
18                   800         97.5           4.9           2.5            7.4         S.920
2. Marib Scheme Surface/Well-Currently Abandoned
2A                   180         71.9            3.6          1.8            5.4           972
28                   120        106.1           S.3           2.7            8.0           960
3. Well Irrigated
3A                   600         33.6            1.7          0.9            2.6         1.560
3B                   300         44.4           2.2           1.1            3.3           990
4. Spate & WellS/
4A                   420         33.4            2.S          0.8            3.3         1.386
4B                   180         60.S            3.5          1.5            S.0           900
12.688
A/ At full development.
II/ Assuming 50X of production is spate irrigated and SO% irrigated from groundwater.



- 74 -
Annex I
Table 22
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
Cost and Rent Recovery at F'ull DevelopmentA'
(YRls million)
1.   Incremental gross value of production                           82.7
2.   Incremental Non-Labor Input Costs                                8.5
3.   Net Incremental Income                                          74.2
4.   Less Imputed Value of Incremental Family Labor                   9.8
5.   Less Imputed Value of Management and Riskk'                      7.4
6.   Incremental Rent (3-4-5)                                        57.0
7.   Incremental Taxes
a.  Zakat                   8.6
b.  Cooperation Tax         4.1
*c.  Water Charges   13.6c'
d.  Total                                                    26.3
8.   Rent Recovery Index (7/6)                                       46.1%
9.   Net Incremental Income Recovery (7/3)                           35.4%
10. Public Investment
a.  Infrastructure d'   17.9
b.  Recurrent Cost       22.9
c.  Total                                                    40.8
11.  Cost Recovery Index (7/10)                                      64.5%
a/ For all farms benefiting from project (total project).
b/ Assumed 10X of net incremental income.
c/  Water charges of 0.21 YRls/m3.
d/ ERADA + ARA, + O&M + TA 25 years at'121.
e/ Recurrent cost of ERADA + ARA + O&M Marib Scheme.
313C0C 1



- 75 -
Annex I
Table 23
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marib' Dam Scheme Surface Water O&M Costa'
Investment                     Total       Economic Life      Annual Cost
(YRls '000)                    (YRls 'million)
Buildings, workshop                3.864            25              0.332
Houses                             9.387            25              0.806
Equipment, Vehicles,
and Furnitures                  17.963          4-12              2.558
Subtotal                     31.214                             3.696
RECURRENT
Vehicles O&M                                                         3.990
Construction Materials                                               2.100
Salaries                                                            3.570
Others                                                              0.300
Subtotal                                                        9.960
TOTAL                                                     13.656
Tariff Charges ' - YRls/m3              0.213
a/ Costs include physical contingencies of 15% for civil works, 102 for
vehicles, equipment and furniture, and 52 for other items.
b/  Based on average of 64 mm3 at outlets of secondary canals and
7T interest over economic life.



- 76 -
Annex I
Table 24
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(YRls million)
(Base Case-Marib Scheme)
Incremental      Incremental        Net
Year                   Benefits               Costs                  Benefits
1                        -                   19.0                   -19.0
2                        0.1                 20.1                   -20.0
3                        0.4                 24.2                   -23.8
4                        1.6                 18.4                   -16.8
5                        7.2                  12.2                   -5.0
6                       19.4                 17.8                      1.6
7                       31.8                 21.0                    10.8
8                       44.4                  31.7                    12.7
9                       52.0                 29.6                    22.4
10                       59.8                 32.8                     27.0
11                       67.6                 36.7                     30.9
12                       74.1                 38.7                     35.4
13                       80.0                 50.1                     29.9
14                       83.7                 42.7                    41.0
15                       86.6                 43.9                    42.7
16                       88.6                 44.9                    43.7
17                       90.3                 45.7                    44.6
18                       91.5                 51.1                    40.4
19                       92.4                 46.6                    45.8
20                       92.9                 47.8                    45.1
21                       93.1                 47.5                    45.6
22                       93.2                 47.9                    45.3
23                       93.2                 55.9                     37.3
24                       93.2                 47.2                    46.0
25                       93.3                 47.2                    46.1
31 SOC20



_ 77 -
Annex I
Table 25
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitiv4ty Analysis
(Base Case -Marib Scheme)
Present Value
at 12% OCC
YR million                             ERR %
Base Case                            50.5                              17.8
Costs up 10%                         28.6                              15.3
Benefits Down 10%                    23.5                              15.0
Costs up 10%
& Benefits Down 10%                1.6                              12.2
Costs up 20%                          6.7                              12.8
Benefits down 20%                    -3.5                              11.5
Costs up 20%
& Benefits Down 20%              -47.4                               5.1
Benefits lag 2 years                 -4.2                              11.6
Costs down 20%                       94.4                               23.6
Benefits up 20%                     104.5                               22.5
3 1 3 0 C 2 1



- 78 -
Annex II
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports Relating to the Project
A.1 FAO/IBRD/CP - Eastern Region Agricultural Development Project
Preparation Report (9/88 CP-YEM 30 Two Volumes)
A.2 Marib Dam Feasibility Study - Electrowatt, Zurich 1978
B. Working Documents
B.1 Agricultural Development
B.2 Marib Scheme Development
B.3 Cost Estimates
B.4 Economic and Financial Data
3 1 30C22



YEMEN ARAB REPUBUC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Cabndar
l A       FB       MAR        AP       MAY        UN        JU                S--          OC'                 NE
Wheat                   _                 7
scghurnz                                                      _    _1
Maizg/SesaTLe
___   ___       _                                   _-J
Winter Veogetabes
Summer Vegetables
Ajtalfa
G~~~pe~                                                             __
CFus HcnvosW 7                                                                                                                            2
World Banmk -42499,1



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overall Implementatfon Schedule
C3bndar Year  1988          1989             1 9O             1991            1992              4993            1994             1995         1996
Ou      -3 -4  _-2  -3 -4             2__  4 _2 3… 1      _ _          - 2   3  4        2  3  4   i-2   3  4 -  …2…3 4 -                   2
1 FROJECT MOBIUIZATON                                              I
Appoinhrnent of Key Experts             _ _ _I 
2 InstfItutional Development Buildings                                                                                                      me _ - _    -  - _   _  _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _m _  msll
Vehicles & Equipment                                                                                                                                                                          0       m mi
Experts & Consultants        ~          rim -m m m                  q    am - m m - m m miia 
Forelgn Training                                                                      - t   I     -        -                        m    m           m   m   ma
Local Staff Training        _ T _   _                           - I   1  _ _ _                        - _ _ T   _ _ _ _ _ _ T T
3 Marb Schee Developent Buling                                                    i             
Vehicles & EquiDmrent                                               V                                  u   m1
Tertiary Canals                                                                                                           ovm   m    m   m m         mib   m    lollm
r     Local Staff Traininp                _      
4 On-Fcrm Developrent                            _                      TT                                                                           InI__
WA         Design. Preparation of Tender Documnets. Award af Contracts - Recrultments
~~ Construction?Implerrentation
S1*11131 Disbursement
World Bank -42499:2



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Implementing Agencies
Minister
Ministry of Agriculture & Fisheries
Boafd Cian                             T                CLCCD 
Advisoy 
Council
AlJ-Jw              Public Relation             Giector                                                      Mowb
Eradp Al  |w               Administrative        Engineering           Agriculture                          Morb Scheme
Department   |        |       nopatrne     |    Department           Deparntent                                 O&M
Administrative & Technical Control
_   * -    Technical Coordination
- - --   Administrative Coordination                                                                        World Bank - 42499 3



IBRD 20584
44o                                       YEMEN ARAB REPUBlIC
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL
ODhahranr                                DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(-9   X Nali n             PROJ ECT LOCATION
t>}  lJ [  t   r -               ~                          Current Project
AHA  BIA 18  P                 8                                                              Prior Projects
Primairy Roads
(                                      \ sAAr AH                             Secondary Roads
0                               Saadah                                                    Track
Jtz:an                                *                                                   - Sa Wadis
@    National Capitol
j     Province Capitals
O    Cities, Towns, ond Villoges
A     Historic Site
Main Ports
Midi         \          <q t |        )   p                 -JAWF4 |                       International Airports
} H A J J A H   /   9   @Hazm  -    Province Boundories
K 2   Arr dr                                    International Boundaries           0
16                                bs                      Sarn                                                                            16
Lthaiya Q          -    -
mra                     Marib                0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Scfir
,-   _ MalNweet                         ,b(oil fields)
Salt     Zay,diy    AL                           SANA A,
Sabf      g         CAH                     a Wh    Jaha a                     MA ARIB I
Al Kathib        i _                                                                  Harib/
HocJotda~~~~~~-~                 Duran     Maa
H01DD            D H    -bA M __7                          R d
4      et      A/"    A L - B E I D A                                               
Zabid                        l HCaA  
140                        IKAl Kouh   Ha ys Qla                 m                 amt                                                    14
140~~~~~
/                                        ;E
I!   I I 1( )-M a/                                         a /   
I I II( 4-11A                                                                    MILES
&;'tw///f  ('f t -I lr-/          0   20   40    80   80   100
/                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
J  . 111 .,( )I 1    1o 1.w .Nmw .,e>ev Th. '.e.#,om..' c.                                    w
0 ;  44   -         7 wo  ..ww          F-1-o-_                460
AUGUST 1988



r   1   44t3t'                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~45°00'                45'30'                                 46°100'                               46°30'
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
17oo0                                                                                                        EASTERN REGION                                                      1rzo
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
:  '         ii                                                                          PROJECT AREA
A _©,mf                                                  )     ERADA Head,uarters                           Primary Roods
1     Proposed Extension Centers         ----  Track
JW                                      *     Existirg Extension Centers            t     Domesti Airports
Resaorch I Nuryry                    A      Historic Sites
Nem Sttion                                Dom nod Reservoir
,       Existing Substation to be          r      Diversions
16'30'                                                                     G o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e~pr aded Fo rd r pr-   E xisting    P ri mary   C anals   6'30'-
*16o3Q'   .  Government Farm             , ->   Wodi Spreads
0    T-s cmd Villq.~~~~~~            Potential Serface tenigtion Area
Ad Dorb                                                                                                                     District Boundaries
.8    '  S  Province CopRols                      Province Boundories
oGnm  Asa*mun                 -               -
Husn Al Shnon  Al M >u<- -9 t  t                                                                  -'-  Intern-ti-eal Boundariesr
Hose Al Shs.n. AlMt¶n1.
Ho-m
Al GhylE *-.
Al Khaleng    '    -  '
-Iha00'  , 6  *  / . ., __  . ,, 1600'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'0'
693                                                                                                                                                                             15egst  3~000
rlSih                                                         Satin
-r- ,  l( Al Juboh
g --                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~       ~~~SAUDI    ARABIA   -
OiSirbo1sMxvb     d
A                                                                                                                 15,00' I:lJu'ool Murnd  I                            |-           3
;  Ali- b,a     E3 H.ibh
SAUDI A RABIA
c   i \  C  i!           +, ----                 .-    'I                                                    ~~~~~~~~            ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC.
,   \  <               /!                \\ AtA^XI~~~~~~~Jal Mored  -    1l/                   
EJilanib                         -                __      ,ETHIOPIAr
d homor                                        12IBC-LJTI R                                                                           r      n     /    PEOPLE'S
-14°'30'                7  A  A,4 R         j                                                                  J140'-                           T
LjE ) 441>L0 4fin00 1 45 54'v1/ADI9D,,>45,00'                                       !4                                                             SOMALIA
-.                                                                                                                  Smme            /       OPYEMEN
KILC\METERS                                                                                                                     Y           +  Al ShobwEE
-- -           r            I                                                     P
>                                                                     I                                                                      % -    BDY  lMr7  TIOI 
\                                                                                                        F ''FL 
T.  w H.&      MorbdDoerll
~~mama~r  .     .           z' _,
_43                      .  SPA                                           lvr hlhs SA       IAl Ha03* NA                            cO =q0                         SOMLI
RILOMI/A  *m AlMsi Al                                                                                                                 tabh!
rO ~ ~ ~ ~ - /bb/                                                   ni 1



