Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17889
IMPLEMLENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1983-YAR)
May 21, 1998
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the|
perforfnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
Official Rate         Market Rate
June 1991        US$1 - YR 12        US$1 = YR 29
October 1994     US$1 = YR 50        US$1 = YR 103
October 1995     US$1 =YR90          US$1 =YR 112
December 1996    US$1 = YR 100       US$1 =YR 126
December 1997    US$1 = YR 130.99   US$1 =YR 130.99
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AREA        Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
CACB        Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CTA         Chief Technical Adviser
EA          Extension Agent
ERADA       Eastern Region Agricultural Development Authority
ERADP       Eastern Region Agricultural Development Project
ERR         Economic Rate of Retum
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Programme
GOY         Government of Yemen
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         Intemational Development Association
MAI         Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MOPD        Ministry Of Planning and Development
MRRS        Marib Regional Research Station
MTR         Mid-Term Review
NWRA        National Water Resources Authority
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
ROY         Republic of Yemen
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SMS         Subject Matter Specialist
TA          Technical Assistance
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:                Kemal Dervis
Country Director:              Inder K. Sud
Acting Sector Director, MNSRE:  Salah Darghouth
Task Team Leader:              Mohamed N. Ben Ali



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1983-YAR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE               ..........................................................................................................................
EVALUATION  SUMMARY                                        ...................................................................                i-iv
A. Project Objectives ..................i
B.  Implementation Experience and Results ....................................................................i
C.  Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned ...........                                       ................    iii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................................                                                  I
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ....................................................................1
B.  Achievement of Objectives .......................                          .............................................             2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................................................8
D.  Project Sustainability ....................................................................9
E.  IDA  Performance ...................................................................                                               10
F.  Borrower Performance ...................................................................                                           10
G.  Assessment of Outcome ...................................................................                                          11
H.  Future Operations ...................................................................                                              11
I. Key Lessons Learned ................                                                                                                 12
PART  II.  STATISTICAL  TABLES                                           ....................................................................   13
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2.   Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits                                                                                               15
Table 3.   Project Timetable                                                                                                            17
Table 4.  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .18
Table 5.         Key Indicators for Project Implementation .............................. , ,.,.                                       19
Table 6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation .20
Table 7. Studies Included in the Project .20
Table 8A.   Project Costs ................................................................                                             21
Table 8B. Project Financing ............................                                                                                21
Table 9.   Economic Costs and Benefits ................................,,,,,,......    22
Table 10. Status of Credit Covenants ..........................   23
Table  11.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..........................................                                  25
Table 12.  IDA Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................                                   ,,,,.,.,,,.....    25
Table 13.  IDA Resources: Missions ..........................                           ,         ,        ,        .       ....   26
APPENDICES
A.      ICR  Mission's Memorandum  of Understanding ................................                         ......................    27
B. Project ICR from the Borrower's Perspective .                                                                                       32
C.      Project Economic Re-evaluation ..............................                         ................................         40
Map: IBRD 20585R - Project Area
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents fnay not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EAST:ERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1983-YAR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Eastern Region Agricultural
Development Project: (ERADP), for which Credit 1983-YAR in the amount of SDR 11.0 million
(US$15.0 million equivalent) was approved on January 31, 1989 and made effective on September 25,
1990.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997 or one year later than the original closing date of
December 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place on April 9, 1998, at which time a balance of
SDR 0.772 million (US$1.039 million equivalent) was canceled. In 1995, the amount of SDR 1.7
million (US$2.5 million equivalent) was canceled from the IDA credit, following the recommendations
of the project mid-tenn review and the Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) agreed upon by
IDA and the Government in September 1995. Overall disbursement from the Credit amounted to
US$12.1 million or 81 percent of SAR estimate. The project had no provisions for cofinancing.
However, parallel financing by the Abu Dhabi Fund for the construction of the Marib irrigation scheme
was not completed as a result of political and security reasons. This has made it necessary for IDA to
restructure the project; and adapt it to the new situation.
The draft ICR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP)
missionI (on behalf of the Rural Development, Water and Environment Sector Departnent - MNSRE of
the Middle East and North Africa Region) and is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision reports, information obtained from the project files
and project staff, as well as on the findings of the project completion mission which visited Yemen in
June-July 1997. After the Credit closing date of December 31, 1997, a joint IDA and FAO/CP mission2
visited Yemen and the project site to update and finalize the draft ICR. The ICR was reviewed by
MNSRE and Middle East Department (MNCMS) managers. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by providing information and project M&E data to the ICR missions and by
preparing an ICR fromn the Borrower's perspective, which is attached as Appendix B.
The initial FAO/CP mission of June-July 1997 consisted of Messrs. F.K. Bishay (Mission Leader - Senior
Economist), R. Suppa (Agricultural Economist) and J. C. Macartney (Agronomist - Consultant).
2   The ICR mission which visited Yemen in February, 1998 (after the December 31, 1997 closing date)
consisted of Messrs. Mohamed Noureddine Ben Ali, Senior Agriculturist - Team Leader, MNSRE, Usaid El-
Hanbali, Senior Irrigation Engineer, MNSRE and Rafaelle Suppa, Senior Agricultural Economist, FAO/CP.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ERADP)
(Credit 1983-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A tent can be erected only
If there are poles to support it,
And no pole wvill stand
Unless the pegs are anchored.
Only if the pegs work together with the poles
Will the tent serve those living in it.
Source: Al-Afwah Al-Awdi
Sheikh of the Madhij tribe, mid-6th Century A.D.
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the main objectives of the Eastern Region
Agricultural Development Project (ERADP) were to:
(a)  establish the institutional framework for addressing the longer-term  agricultural
development needs of the region through: (i) the establishment and strengthening of
agricultural support services, including agricultural extension; and (ii) expanding
agricultural research activities;
(b)  provide for the early use of the production potential created by the Marib Dam and ensure
its sustainability through the development of: (i) an operation and maintenance service;
(ii) a tertiary distribution system for the irrigation scheme; and (iii) a pilot on-farm
development; and
(c)  help increase agricultural productivity and farmers' incomes by: (i) promoting the use of
improved agricultural and irrigation practices; and (ii) upgrading the management of land
and water resources.
2.    Due to reasons within and beyond the Borrower's control (Gulf War, security issues, reference
Section C), the project was restructured in April 1991. While keeping to its original objectives, the
restructured project reduced the scope of the components pertaining to the first and second objectives by
redefining research and extension services and by reducing the area to be equipped with tertiary canals
from 4,250 ha to 1,750 ha (gross area). The components of the third objective were expanded to include
the construction of feeder roads and the establishment of a sand dune stabilization program. The
project's objectives were in line with GOY national development priorities. Despite being somewhat
over-ambitious, these objectives provided for a balanced approach to increase and sustain agricultural
production, improve farmers' income and achieve optimum use and conservation of natural resources.



- 11 -
B. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
3.    The ERADP was implemented in one of the most difficult regions of Yemen. The region is
characterized by fragmented tribal populations, severe constrains in natural resources, particularly water
and an unstable security situation. Despite these issues, and notwithstanding the significant delays in
project effectiveness and implementation, the project was able to complete most of its planned activities
and satisfactorily achieve its three objectives. The Eastern Region Agricultural Development Authority
(ERADA), which was created by decree in June 1987, and the Marib Regional Research Station (MRRS)
are, as called for by the first objective of the project, established, are presently serving the needs of
agricultural development in the Marib and Al Jawf regions and are sustainable. The second objective of
providing for the early use of the production potential created by the Marib Dam and ensuring its
sustainability has also been achieved through the establishment of an Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
service within ERADA and the irrigation of 75 percent of the area envisaged at restructuring. Evidence
of increasing agricultural productivity, and hence farm income, has already been measured by ERADP's
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) and it is expected that this trend will continue and consolidate so that
full development targets will be attained (para. 7).
4.    Implementation results are briefly described for each of the project's main objectives and
components.
5.    Objective No. I - Institutional Development. Agricultural Research: With the exception of
housing units, of which only 18 out of 20 units were constructed due to price escalation, 100 percent of
the physical outputs planned at restructuring for this component were achieved (paras. 6,7 and 8).
Agricultural Extension: On the Credit closing date of December 31, 1997, two block centers and all 9
planned extension centers had been completed. This represents an achievement of 100 percent of
expected physical outputs for this sub-component. However, two of the extension centers and one block
center have not yet received their full staff complement or means of transportation (paras. 10 and 11).
Women in Development: A program of activity which included home/child care, crafts and cultural
practices was fully implemented by the Women in Development (WID) team (para. 12). Veterinary
Services: Veterinary drugs, mobile veterinary units and laboratory equipment provided by ERADP
enabled the vaccination of about 370,000 head of sheep and cattle and increased the productivity of
livestock in the project area (paras. 13 and 14). Training: Eighty-two ERADA and MRRS staff have
benefited from short-term training and seven candidates have completed post-graduate study courses.
The courses selected were relevant to the requirements of the project. Technical Assistance: Overall,
nearly 100 percent of the planned TA was implemented and its effect on project achievements and staff
training were noticeable.
6.    Objective No. 2 - Provision for Early Usage and Sustainability of Marib Dam and Scheme.
Creation of an Operation and Maintenance Service: ERADA nominated and trained sufficient staff to
create a very effective O&M unit. By establishing and equipping the O&M team early in 1994, the
project helped alleviate the potential devastation that would have been caused by the June 1996 floods
(para. 20). Irrigation Scheme Development: At closing, the project was able to install secondary canals
on only about 1,325 ha, i.e. the equivalent of 75 percent of the target area anticipated at restructuring
(para. 21).
7.    Objective No. 3 - Increasing Agricultural Productivity and Farm  Income.  Promoting
Improved Agricultural Productivity and Irrization Practices:  Two varieties of high-yielding, early-
maturing wheat have been introduced by MRRS. Under farmers' conditions, these varieties have
achieved yields of 4 MT/ha. Two high-yielding groundnut cultivars, suitable for summer growing, have
also been released. Yields of 2.6 MT/ha of groundnuts have been achieved under farm conditions.
(para. 23). Other activities aimed at improving productivity increases include the efforts by extension



- iii -
staff to increase the adoption by a large number of farmers of the use of chemical fertilizers, particularly
urea. The adoption of the use of urea is probably the single most important factor that contributed to
increasing crop yields in the project area (para. 24). Construction of Feeder Roads: At project closing, a
total of 50.2 km of roads (of which 4.0 km asphalted) were completed. This represents an achievement
of 117 percent of restructuring targets (para. 28). Sand Dune Stabilization: 11 km of shelterbelts were
planted. With the benefit of hindsight, the proposed 20 km of shelterbelt proved to be unrealistically
ambitious. ERADA has been able to encourage farmers to plant their own windbreaks and small
shelterbelts around their properties (para. 29).
8.    Financial and Economic Objectives: Actual project cost is estimated at about US$18.4 million or
66 percent of the original estimate made at appraisal (US$27.9 million, Part II, Table 8A). Overall
disbursements include IDA's US$12.1 million and GOY contribution of US$6.3 million (Part II, Table
8B). With regard to the IDA credit, the final disbursement rate is estimated at 81 percent of the original
SAR commitment. As indicated in Part II, Table 9, the economic re-evaluation of the project takes into
account quantifiable benefits deriving from the six different farming systems (or models) for a total of
11,450 ha of cultivated area. The ex-post ERR was estimated at 13 percent and is about 5 points lower
than the ERR estimalted at appraisal. This is essentially due to the lower than expected cropping intensity
of 104 percent, well below the 138 percent foreseen at appraisal. It is estimated that (Appendix c, Table
5) average fann income increases range from a low of 8 percent to a high of 15 percent (para. 31).
9.    Maior Factors Affecting the Project: The factors that were not subject to Government control
include: (i) the Gulf War (1991), which slowed down the growth of the Yemeni economy; (ii) the
resettlement and absorption of the large number of Yemeni workers who had returned to Yemen from
neighboring oil-exporting countries following the Gulf War; (iii) the 1994 civil war which caused delays
in project implementation and curtailed economic growth; and (iv) the severe floods that occurred in
1989 and 1996 and caused serious damage to irrigation and other rural infrastructure. Factors that were
under GOY control include: (i) the slow administrative procedures, the shortage of trained personnel and
transport constraints which delayed project effectiveness and start up by about 20 months each; (ii) the
disparity between the, official and parallel exchange rates of the Yemeni Rial, which until 1995 increased
the real cost of works and delayed the implementation of civil works contracts; (iii) interference and
cumbersome tendering and procurement procedures imposed by MAI and MOPD until 1995, which
infringed on ERADA's autonomy, reduced its effectiveness and delayed the pace of project
implementation; and (iv) lack of security in the region.
10.   Proiect Sustainabilitv: While the project's achievements have generally been satisfactory, its full
development and impact will only materialize in the distant future. The incremental funding for flood
repair and control works provided by the IDA-financed Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project, the
commitment of GOY to provide timely and adequate recurrent budget and the renewed interest of the
Abu Dhabi Fund in completing the Marib scheme, as well as GOY's commitment to improve security led
the ICR mission to believe that some degree of sustainability would be achieved. However, past
experience indicates that in view of severe budgetary constraints, such commitments and assurances
cannot always be kept. Consequently, the ICR mission rates project sustainability as uncertain.
11.   IDA and Borrower's Performance: IDA's performance in project identification and preparation
was satisfactory. However, its performance at appraisal was not satisfactory because it underestimated
social and security issues. Its performance in project supervision was highly satisfactory, particularly the
quick response to rapidly changing circumstances (para. 40). The overall performance of the Borrower
and its agencies was mixed. The performance of ERADA was not consistent throughout the project as a
result of variable management quality and changes. Performance of ERADA's technical and support
staff, as well as its technical assistants, was satisfactory as they continued to be motivated and performed
adequately under extremely difficult conditions (paras. 41 and 42).



- iv -
12.   Assessment of Outcome: Despite the many serious, unforeseen and mostly external unfavorable
factors that faced and delayed project implementation, the project outcome is deemed to be satisfactory.
The rapid adjustments and corrective actions taken by both IDA and Government to changing
circumstances are to be highly commended (para. 44).
C. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATION AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
13.   Future Operation:  An excellent physical infrastructure has been completed and necessary
equipment supplied. There has been considerable investment in human capital, which must now be
deployed. The continued support of ERADA and MRRS to agricultural production is paramount if the
anticipated full development and impact are to be achieved. This will involve completing the staffing
and operating all the research and extension facilities, as well as making the best use of the human and
material resources at the disposal of ERADA and MRRS. The ICR mission has received assurances that
this is indeed the plan the GOY wants to follow (paras. 46 and 47).
14.   Key Lessons Learned: The following are the main lessons learned:(i) in hardship areas, the early
construction of staff housing and the provision of special allowances are necessary to motivate and attract
qualified staff (Para. 7); (ii) extension Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) should be exposed to new
technologies early on while they are being developed or verified by researchers (Para. 8);
(iii) success of the TA components can achieved when, inter alia, a favorable environment for good
performance is created (Para. 15); (iv) early training and institutional building helps in the achievement
of project objectives (Para. 20); (v) in retrospect, the Abu Dhabi fund pullout had the unintended benefit
of allowing the empowerment of farmers to construct, operate and maintain with ERADA's assistance
the earthen tertiary canals, which were supposed to be constructed by the project (Para. 21); (vi) research
results obtained from other stations can provide a quick impact when they are field tested for
applicability and relevance and promoted immediately without unnecessary duplication (Para. 24);
(vi) Sector and Country Portfolio Performance Review (SPPR and CPPR) are the most appropriate fora
to resolve generic issues (Para. 27); (vii) sensitizing farmers and assisting them to directly take
responsibility for implementing activities that are of interest to them would be the most efficient way of
implementing project activities and insuring their long-termn sustainability (Para. 30); (viii) consultation
and involvement of stakeholders is necessary to achieve and sustain development activities and impact
(Para. 36); and (ix) unsettled security situations such as the one the Marib area can best be remedied by
sustained government support to improve the quality of life in this hardship area (Para. 37).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1983-YAR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    As stated in its Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the main objectives of the Eastern Region
Agricultural Development Project (ERADP) were to:
(a) establish the institutional framework for addressing the longer-term  agricultural
development needs of the region through: (i) the establishment and strengthening of
agricultural support services, including agricultural extension; and (ii) expanding
agricultural research activities;
(b) provide for the early use of the production potential created by the Marib Dam and ensure
its sustainability through the development of: (i) an operation and maintenance service; (ii)
a tertiary distribution system for the irrigation scheme, and (iii) a pilot on-farm
development; and
(c) help increase agricultural productivity and farmers' incomes by: (i) promoting the use of
improved agricultural and irrigation practices; and (ii) upgrading the management of land
and water resources.
2.    Due to delays in completing works required by IDA to implement additional safety measures on
the Marib dam to fulfil conditions of effectiveness, the ERADP Credit did not become effective until 20
months after its approval by IDA's Board. Other extemal factors beyond the control of the project (Ref.
Section C), including the 1991 Gulf war and the deterioration of security in the Marib area contributed to
further delaying the start of project implementation. Because of the above reasons and due to changes in
irrigation water availability estimates and the departure of the contractor building the Marib irrigation
scheme, as well as the discontinuation of funding from the Abu Dhabi for the completion of the Marib
irrigation scheme, the project was restructured in April 1991.
3.    While keeping to its original objectives, the restructured project reduced the scope of the
components pertaining to the first and second objectives by redefining research and extension
services to more modest goals and by reducing the area to be equipped with tertiary canals from 4250 ha
to 1750 ha (gross area). The components of the third objective were expanded to include the
construction of feeder roads and the establishment of a sand dune stabilisation program. During the 1995
project mid-term review, the pilot on-farm development program was cancelled because potential
participants in the program were not, due to inter and intra-tribal conflicts, willing to manage their
project-developed pilot farm as a demonstration to be viewed and visited by other farmers.
4.    The project's objectives were in line with GOY's national development priorities. The project
design provided for a balanced approach to increase and sustain agricultural production, improve farmers'
incomes and achieve optimum use and conservation of natural resources. Various relevant and realistic
risk elements were recognised in the SAR. The project's components and activities, however, were
somewhat ambitious and demanding on national managerial capacity. The assessment by the Abu Dhabi
consultants of water resources for irrigation and the pertaining irrigation scheme development
components needed further in-depth analyses at the design stage. The ambitious sand dune stabilisation



- 2 -
program, as well as the social and security issues should also have benefited from deeper analysis at by
IDA's appraisal.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
General
5.    The ERADP was implemented in one of the most difficult regions of Yemen. The fragmented
tribal structure of the populations and the inter and intra tribal conflicts made it difficult for ERADA to
build consensus on the global agricultural development needs of the region. Despite the fact that
ERADA was quite successful in building ownership of individuals and small groups to rapidly move on
the execution of specific project activities (the planting of windbreaks, the establishment of extension
demonstration plots and the O&M of tertiaries), the general pace of project implementation continued to
suffer from the discord and conflicts within the beneficiary population. In addition to the delicate social
constraints, the severe limitations on natural resources, particularly water caused further conflicts and
destabilised security in the project area. However, despite the above issues, and notwithstanding the
significant delays in project effectiveness, implementation and the somewhat ambitious project design
both at appraisal and restructuring, the project was able to complete most of its planned activities and
achieve its three objectives. The Eastern Region Agricultural Development Authority (ERADA), which
was created by decree in June 1987, and the Marib Regional Research Station (MRRS) are, as called for
by the first objective of the project, established and are presently serving the needs of agricultural
development in the Marib and Al Jawf regions. The second objective of providing for the early use of
the production potential created by the Marib Dam and ensuring its sustainability has also been achieved
through the establishment of an Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Service within ERADA and the
irrigation of 75 percent of the area envisaged at restructuring. Evidence of increasing agricultural
productivity, and hence farm income, has already been measured by ERADP's Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) and it is expected that this trend will continue and consolidate so that full
development targets will be attained.
Objective No. 1: Institutional Development
6.    Agricultural Research. The goal of this activity is to set up an agricultural research station that
would focus on developing technologies and resolving problems that are specific to the region. Research
in the Eastern Region was previously given little attention, apart from modest support through the Al-
Jawf Project. Through ERADP, research in the region was to receive support in the form of incremental
staff, staff training and housing units, farm and laboratory equipment and vehicles, as well as offices and
laboratories to create the Marib Regional Research Station. With the exception of housing units, of
which only 18 out of 20 units were constructed due to price escalation, 100 percent of the physical
outputs planned at restructuring for this component were achieved (Ref. Table 5). Although
construction of the MRRS headquarters building was completed in May 1996, research on the farm had
been ongoing since 1993.
7.    As an institution, the creation of the MRRS is seen as a success story. It is now fully established
and well equipped. There are six Ph.D. and M.Sc. researchers working on issues of immediate relevance
to farmers. Although the eleven researchers planned at appraisal are not all on the station, the MRRS is
able to conduct on-station and on-farm research activities. Marib is considered a hardship station and
current security problems have reduced the incentive for staff to work there. This issue of incentives for
staff to move to Marib has been partially resolved by the construction of housing units that are now
available; hardship allowances may be another way of motivating qualified staff to move to Marib.
AREA-headquarters has initiated a program to consolidate and improve the efficiency of agricultural
research in the country. This will alleviate the staff shortage in Marib and allow for increased staff



- 3-
movement between stations and reduce duplication of research. Subject matters for which no specialised
staff exist at Marib will be treated at the Seiyun research station which focuses its activity on the same
agro-ecological area as the MRRS. The MRRS has, over the last three years, been able finance some of
its research activities with funds generated from the sale of crops grown on its farm. This practice will
add some measure of sustainability to its research activities. In 1998, the Ministry of Finance allocated
an extra YR 5 million to MRRS to implement Quick Impact Research Activities. Research managers at
the national level feel that this new support from the Ministry of Finance will continue if quick and
tangible results are achieved by the MRRS.
8.    As described in the SAR, the research approach to be followed by MRRS stressed that testing of
technologies would be undertaken in farmers fields with the close involvement of ERADA's regional
extension services, This expected collaboration between research and extension did not always work
well, particularly when new technologies and/or varieties were being introduced to farmers. Often
researchers would set up the demonstrations with little or no participation from extension Subject Matter
Specialist (SMSs), who did not always own and understand the technology demonstrations. The
important lesson from this is that SMSs should be exposed to new technologies early on while these
technologies are being developed or verified at the research station. SMSs should participate, as equal
partners in the design and implementation of on-farm demonstrations of new technologies or varieties.
The impact of research results on increasing agricultural productivity and farm income is analysed under
objective No. 3 (Para. 24, 25, 26).
9.    Agricultural Support Services.  The agricultural support services to be provided by the
strengthened ERADA included agricultural extension, women in development and veterinary support
services.
10.   Agriculture Extension: At project start up, the newly created ERADA was lacking in qualified
staffs , extension infrastructure and methodology. The ERADP focused on establishing the institutional
framework for addressing the longer-term needs for agricultural development, and hence, extension
services became a major focus. The strengthened extension service was to consist of nine Extension
Agents (EAs), giving an extension/farmer ratio of 1:350, supported by six SMSs. Additional field staff
(i.e., five EAs) were to be recruited during project implementation. Extension centres, five within the
scheme and four outside the scheme, would be constructed together with one block centre. The
establishment of an 8-ha orchard nursery was implemented by the private sector. It was expected that
each EA would be provided with a vehicle or a motorcycle.
11.   On the Credit closing date of December 31, 1997, two block centres and all 9 planned extension
centres had been completed. This represents an achievement of 100 percent of expected physical
outputs for this sub-component. In addition, seven out of nine extension centers and one block center
are fully staffed and operating. the remaining two extension centres and the one block centre are in the
process of being staffed and equipped. With the delivery of the last batch of motorcycles (20 units),
mobility of extension staff should no longer be constraint to the delivery of extension services.
Notwithstanding the above, extension which begun to work regularly in the 1993/4 cropping season had a
strong impact on agricultural production in the Marib area. The extension service reported having
contacts with 1,900 farm families (about 64 percent of target). Fifty-three farm demonstrations were
canied out during the 1995-1997 crop seasons. The role of extension has been complementary to
improved water supply and introduced high-yielding cultivars. The full impact of extension services on
agricultural productivity is discussed under objective No. 3 (Para. 24, 25, 26).
12.   Women in Development. Women shoulder the burden of a number of farm operations (although
with some tribes of Marib women do not do any farm work), particularly harvesting (forage crops and
wheat) and care of livestock. Given the conservative nature of the social system and the sensitivity of



-4 -
women's issues in the Marib area, a modest programme to support women in development was initiated.
The project provided a three-month training programme for 17 women in agricultural extension. A
program of activity which included home/child care, crafts and cultural practices was fully implemented
by the Women In Development (WID) team. Four of the WID trainees have been recruited by ERADA
as extension agents to sustain the effort in WID activities. Achievement under this sub-component has
been satisfactory.
13.   Veterinary Services.  Veterinary services were basically non-existent before the advent of
ERADP. Because livestock plays an important role in all farming systems practised in the Marib area,
the project provided incremental veterinary staff, veterinary equipment and drugs, as well as vehicles and
training. Five veterinary technicians have been posted at extension centres and two technicians at
ERADA's headquarters. Veterinary drugs and laboratory equipment procured by the project enabled the
vaccination over the life of the project of about 370,000 head of sheep and cattle (mostly for sheep pox,
rinderpest and endoparasites).
14.   Only a few activities were undertaken to promote livestock nutrition improvement and animal
husbandry practices. Such activities have been made difficult by the constant movement of herdsmen.
Settled farmers/livestock owners are the stakeholders that benefited most from the project's veterinary
services. They have now widely adopted vaccinations and drenching, as well as extension's advice on
better nutrition and animal husbandry practices. Anecdotal evidence suggest that mortality rates,
particularly of young stock have been reduced significantly. Settled livestock owners are very likely to
sustain their interest in improved animal husbandry and will continue to seek and make use of veterinary
services and drugs, even when, as is planned, such activities will be dispensed by private entrepreneurs as
a commercially priced service.
15.   Technical Assistance. Traininz and Studies. At project restructuring, Technical Assistance (TA)
was revised and TA estimates were set at 522 person months (p.m.) of long-term assistance, 45 p.m. for
short-term assistance and 33 p.m. for consultant studies (Table 5). Despite some delays in recruiting the
required long-term TA, the project provided 572 p.m. of actual long-term TA services to ERADA, 12
p.m. of short-term services and 12 p.m. for studies. Overall, nearly 100 percent of the planned TA
was implemented under the project. Many TA positions envisaged at appraisal were not filled. This
was essentially due to the fact that ERADA wanted to reduce the variety of specialities and increase the
length of appointment of those specialist who had the most positive impact on ERADA's staff and work
programs. The TA component was instrumental in training key ERADA staff and had a positive impact
on improving the quality of agricultural support services provided by ERADA. The success of the TA
component was due to the fact that ERADA was able to: (i) to chose qualified experts; (ii) create a
favorable environment for them to perform well; and (iii) gave them temporary project implementation
assignments until local staff became available.
16.   MRRS's use of long-term TA was reduced significantly. Because of a two-year delay in
constructing the laboratories of the newly-created Marib Regional Research Station, the highly dedicated
director of the station decided to recruit and train local staff and hire only a Chief Technical Advisor
(CTA). The TA provided by the project for the MRRS was able to significantly influence the program
and research methodology of the station. Since 1994, the CTA was able to bring greater focus to on-farm
research and to the resolution of those problem that affected farners most.
17.   Training.  Eighty-two ERADA  staff have benefited from  short-term  training and seven
candidates have completed post-graduate study courses. The courses selected were relevant to the
requirements of the project. The Research Staff Training Program was implemented effectively with four
degree courses and short-term overseas courses for 26 candidates. Due to the lack of language capability,
all short-term training was arranged within the region and 15 months of short-term extension training was



- 5 -
implemented for 14 candidates in Jordan and Egypt. Training achieved 136 percent of restructuring
targets and was generally seen as a success.
18.   Studies. The proposed flood control study was combined with the feeder road design study
introduced at restructuring. As a result of the study, the IDA mid-term review mission of May 1995
included as a new component the construction of a flood protection dike (4.4 km) to protect the B-North -
BN canal. The design was carried out by the consultant and the contract was awarded in March 1996.
Construction started in May 1996, but works were washed away by the June 1996 floods The contractor
has demobilised and the contract has been terminated. Reconstruction of the BN canal and other works
damaged by the June 1996 floods, as well as flood protection dikes will be financed under the on-going
IDA-supported Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project.
19.   As planned, a preliminary study was carried out on archaeological sites around Marib. The
vulnerable areas were fenced. However, fences were later looted by some tribes. It was decided not to
identify sites through fencing as this tended to attract the attention of looters. The Department of
Archaeology has decided not to delineate more sites until sufficient funds are made available to finance
site development and manned protection.
Objective No. 2: Provision for Early Usage and Sustainability of Marib dam and Scheme
20.   Creation of an Operation and Maintenance Service. As initially appraised, the project aimed
to ensure the sustainability of the Marib dam scheme through the development of an Operation and
Maintenance (O&M) service and the introduction of the tertiary distribution system and on-farm
development. It had been assumed that the Abu Dhabi Fund target of equipping 4250 ha with 85 km of
secondary irrigation canals would be achieved. However, due to the causes explained in Section C of this
report, only 21 kmL of main canals and a few secondary canals were completed by the Abu Dhabi
contractor by the time the ERADP became effective. Nonetheless, ERADA nominated and trained
early on in the project life sufficient staff to create a very effective O&M unit. By establishing and
equipping the O&M team early in 1994, the project helped alleviate the potential devastation that would
have been caused by the June 1996 floods. Day and night, throughout the flood period, the O&M team
gradually released water from the dam to prevent water from going over the spillway and causing
tremendous damage to lives and property on its path. The O&M team has indeed contributed to the
sustainability of the Marib dam and scheme.
21.   Irrigation Scheme Development. At project restructuring, the availability of irrigation water
from the Marib dam was reassessed. The restructuring mission took the view that there was not
sufficient evidence to indicate that water from the Marib dam would be able to irrigate the 4,250 ha
anticipated at appraisal. The mission, therefore, concluded that in view of the absence of funding from
the Abu Dhabi Fund for the completion of the Marib irrigation scheme, it would recommend that only
1,750 ha be equipped with project-financed secondary canals. At closing, the project was able to install
secondary canals on only about 1,325 ha or 75 percent of the target area anticipated at restructuring.
The reason for this partial completion is due to conflicting signals received by the GOY from the Abu
Dhabi Fund regarding the Fund's intention to resume the construction of the Marib scheme. When the
works were finally contracted out, the contractor did not have sufficient time to complete the works
before December 31, 1997. Provisions have been made with the contractor to complete the work after
the closing date under financing from the on-going Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project. Earthen
tertiaries have been constmcted entirely by farmers who had sole responsibility for their O&M. The pre-
project situation shows that the irrigated and cultivated area' amounted to some 9,700 ha with a cropping
intensity of 97 percent. At Credit closing, the irrigated and cultivated area has increased to 12,950 ha,
I Cultivated areaf omall sources of irrigation water, i.e. surface water from the dam, well irrigation, spate, etc.



- 6 -
and the cropping intensity to 105 percent (see Table 3, Appendix C). In retrospect, the Abu Dhabi fund
pullout allowed the empowerment of farmers to construct, operate and maintain with ERADA's
assistance the earthen tertiary canals.
22.   On-Farm Water Management. Demonstrations were set up in two areas for Parshall flume,
border strip and lined PVC methods of water delivery. However, during the 1995 project mid-term
review, the pilot on-farm development program was cancelled because potential participants in the
program were not willing to manage their project-developed pilot farm, as a demonstration to be viewed
and visited by other farmers with whom they may be in conflict.
Objective No. 3: Increasing Agricultural Productivity and Farm Income
23.   Promoting Improved Agricultural Productivity and Irrigation Practices. A number of
activities were undertaken by ERADA and MRRS staff to promote increased agricultural productivity
and better use of irrigation water. Two varieties of high-yielding, early-maturing wheat have been
introduced by MRRS. Under farmers conditions, these varieties have achieved yields of 4 MT/ha
(RWYT 89/90 and ARA 32). Breeder seed of these varieties has been passed to the Seed Multiplication
Corporation and is now under multiplication. Two high-yielding groundnut cultivars, suitable for
summer growing, have also been released. Yields of 2.6 MT/ha of groundnuts have been achieved under
farm conditions. Other varietal releases include Bafateem Onion (originally introduced by the Seiyun
AREA Station) which has demonstrated a high dry matter content and good storage; tomato varieties
Napoli and Roma have been released in the area and have given highly significant yield increases.
24.   Other activities aimed at improving productivity increases include the efforts by extension staff
to increase the adoption by a large number of farmers of the use of chemical fertilisers, particularly urea.
The adoption of the use of urea is probably the single most important factor that contributed to increasing
crop yields in the project area. Sorghum which used to be broadcast with no fertilisers and very little
manure has responded dramatically to the use of urea. Surveys conducted by the M&E team of ERADA
show that sorghum grain yields increased from 0.6 MT/ha to 1.2 MT/ha between 1990 and 1997. The
MRRS and ERADA extension staff have also developed and demonstrated technological packages for
fertilisers and crop husbandry packages for wheat, groundnut and onions, optimum water requirements,
irrigation dosage and frequency for wheat, potatoes and sesame, etc. Results from the Central Dhamar
station were field tested by MRRS and, where applicable, were passed for extension promotion. This
avoided unnecessary duplication and provided for quick impact.
25.   The yields achieved are very much in line with appraisal estimates and overall cropping
intensity in the project area increased from 97 to 104 percent (appraisal estimate of 138%). Potato in
the rotation has been significantly reduced, due to high costs of production, virus and fungal diseases and
decreasing availability of quality seed potato. Wheat yields have almost doubled and alfalfa (which has a
heavy water consumption) is gradually being replaced by sorghum. The cropping intensity in the project
area irrigated with surface irrigation has reached 125 percent. In areas where water from wells is used,
cropping intensity increased from 119 to 130 percent. This is largely due to the introduction of relay
cropping with cash crops. Past severe problems with brown root rot and scale insects on citrus have been
brought under control. The main achievements under this component are therefore satisfactory.
26.   Upgrading the Management of Land and Water Resources. In 1994-95, the Marib dam
reservoir was infested with dense algae blooms which were carried through the irrigation water and
clogged outlets and metering devices. The mid-term review mission allocated funds for consultant
services and the importation of algae-eating (Bolti) fish from Sudan. Some 3,500 Bolti fish were
imported and seeded in the dam reservoir. The effects of the Bolti fish on the algae and the growth of the
fish population in the reservoir have been monitored. Second-generation fish are now surviving and



- 7 -
multiplying well. Water samples are being monitored through the MRRA's laboratory in Marib.
Preliminary results indicate that the algae infestation is being significantly curbed by the Bolti fish.
27.   Constructiion of Feeder Roads. The feeder road component was introduced at restructuring.
The target was to construct 12.5 km of new feeder roads and improve 30.5 km. of existing service roads
along the main canals. The consultants who prepared the road designs took about 12 months longer than
anticipated. Changes requested by ERADA in the design of the roads, coupled with a murky exchange
rate situation in Yemen further delayed tendering and reduced the length of roads to be contracted to 4.3
km of asphalt road[s. The remaining 39 km of earth and gravel roads were to be executed directly by
ERADA with its project-procured equipment. The construction of 4.0 km of asphalt roads was
completed in November 1997. This was made possible by the Country Portfolio Performance Review
(CPPR) which helped resolve the issue of disparity between the official and parallel exchange rates of the
Yemeni Rial by denominating civil works contracts in US dollars and streamlined tender review
procedures. These two generic issues were delaying the implementation of all IDA's projects in Yemen.
ERADA had already completed the rehabilitation of about 15 km of earth roads prior to contracting for
the asphalt roads. However, ERADA's rehabilitation efforts were halted when the project's heavy
equipment was requisitioned by local authorities and made available to tribal chiefs in the area to repair
the damage caused to their farm by the June 1996 floods.
28.   The equipment was supposed to be retumed by the tribes within six months. Nine months later
when the equipment was not retumed, IDA informed the Borrower, in February 1997, of its intention to
suspend project disbursement if the equipment was not retumed by May 31, 1997. On May 25, 1997, an
IDA supervision mission found that no action had been taken on this matter. The IDA mission visited
Marib and along with ERADA's management spoke to the Govemor and the local military commander
about the return of the equipment. The mission and ERADA's management retumed to Sana'a where
they contacted the Ministers of Agriculture, Planning and Development, Defence, the Military Joint
Chiefs of Staff, the Director of Military Operations and people with relations at the highest level of
Government. The effort finally paid off when on May 30, 1997 at midnight a presidential order was
issued to the Military commander in Marib who recovered the equipment at dawn on 05/31/1997. At
project closing, a total of 50.2 km of roads (of which 4.0 km asphalted) were completed by the
project. This represents an achievement of 117 percent of restructuring targets. Because of the
many problems that this sub-component and ERADA had to overcome, the final achievement is deemed
to be highly satisfactory.
29.   Sand Dune Stabilisation. The area between the North and South canals of the Marib scheme is
prone to sand movement. It is estimated that some 200-300 ha are lost to sand dunes every year. To
alleviate this problem, it was decided at project restructuring to plant trees on a series of bands to make
up "shelterbelts" that would arrest sand dune movement and protect agricultural land. It was proposed to
plant 20 km of shelterbelts. In 1994, 31,000 trees were planted. However, due to severe drought, the
mortality rate was 24 percent and about 7,500 trees had to be replanted. The planting program continued,
albeit at a very slow pace. At Credit closing, 11 km of shelterbelts were planted. With the benefit of
hindsight, the proposed 20 km of shelterbelt proved to be unrealistically ambitious. The major problems
faced by this component related to theft of irrigation equipment by tribes and high tree mortality rates
due to the hot and dry summer months.
30.   Once established, the tree species that were planted proved to be adapted to the project area.
Because of their adaptability to arid areas and their unpalatable nature, the trees (tamarix, sesbania,
acacia, prosopis, etc.) planted in the shelterbelts are likely to sustain their growth and reduce the
movement of sand. However, the trees may become subject to cutting for fuel wood and may not last
very long without some sort of protection by the community. ERADA has so far been able to motivate
most of the commLmities to protect the trees. Moreover, ERADA has been able to encourage farmers to



- 8 -
plant their own windbreaks and small shelterbelts around their properties and homes. This activity has
become very popular and is very likely to be very sustainable. So far, some 52 farners have established
windbreaks and have protected some 200 ha. of farm land from sand dune encroachment. This
ERADA/farmers joint activity is deemed to be very satisfactory and is expected to be sustainable. The
sustainability of the other shelterbelts established by ERADA is at this stage deemed to be uncertain.
Financial and Economic Objectives
31.   Actual project cost is estimated at about US$18.4 million or 66 percent of the original estimate
made at appraisal (Part II, Table 8A). Final overall disbursement includes IDA's US$12.1 million and
GOY contribution of US$6.3 million (Part II, Table 8B). With regard to the IDA credit, the final
disbursement rate is estimated at 81 percent of the original SAR commitment.
32.   The ERADA M&E team identified six farming systems in the project area and respective
representative models are given in Appendix C. For each model/system, indications on land use,
cropping intensity and crop yields are based on data derived from a complete survey for models A and D
and on random sampling for models B, C, E and F. As indicated in Part II, Table 9, the economic re-
evaluation of the project takes into account quantifiable benefits deriving from the six different farming
systems (or Models) for a total of 11,450 ha of cultivated area. In the absence of specific production
parameters, the project livestock incremental production has not been evaluated. Instead, the incremental
fodder production has been valued in line with its commercial value and taken into account as project
benefit. The ex-post economic rate of return (ERR) has been assessed at 13 percent (Appendix C,
Table 13). It is about 5 points lower than the ERR estimated at appraisal. This is essentially due to
the lower than expected cropping intensity of 104 percent, well below the 138 percent foreseen at
appraisal. It is estimated that (Appendix C, table 5) average fann incomes increases ranged from a low of
8 percent (for Model E, from 453,OOOYR to 490,500YR against an appraisal estimate of 28,200YR) to a
high of 15 percent (for Model F, from 320,300YR to 369,400YR, against an appraisal estimate of
64,400YR).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Subject to Government Control
33.   The following main extemal factors have affected the economic and social conditions in Yemen
and were beyond the control of the Government. They represented substantial challenges to project
implementation and none of these problems were foreseen at appraisal:
(a) The Gulf War (1991) which slowed down the growth of the Yemeni economy and
caused regional disniptions for several years to follow;
(b) The resettlement and absorption of the large number of Yemeni workers who had to
return to Yemen from neighbouring oil-exporting countries following the Gulf War;
(c) The 1994 civil war also caused delays in project implementation and curtailed
economic growth.
(d) The severe floods that occurred in 1989 and 1996 and caused serious damage to
irrigation and other rural infrastructure; and



(e) The periodic social unrest in the project area, leading to a lack of security for project
officers in the field; Both Government and IDA underestimated the sociological
problems of the overall effects of the unsettled security situation of the project area.
Factors Subject to Government Control
34.   The following are the major factors under the government control that have adversely affected
project implementation.
(a)  Slow administrative procedures, shortage of trained personnel and transport constraints
delayed project effectiveness and start up by about 20 months each. Both Government
and IDA underestimated the project area's sociological problems and the cumbersome
regulations of the national tendering procedures.
(b)  Diverting civil service staff including project staff from their regular activities to work
on national elections (April 1993) delayed project implementation activities during
several months.
(c)  The disparity between the official and parallel exchange rates of the Yemeni Rial up to
1995 increased the real costs works and delayed the implementation of civil works
contracts. At the time, civil work contracts were denominated in Yemeni Rials with no
price escalation clause which precluded contractors from covering the cost of imported
materials. The situation was subsequently corrected (following a CPPR in 1995) by a
Government decision to denominate all civil works contracts financed by external
agencies in US Dollars or other hard currencies.
(d)  Interference and cumbersome tendering and procurement procedures imposed by MAI
and MOPD prior to 1997 infringed and regional authorities on ERADA's autonomy,
reduced its effectiveness and delayed the pace of project implementation.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
35.   The first objective of the project was to establish the institutional framework for addressing the
longer-term development needs of two border Governorates - Marib and Al-Jawf, which were largely
excluded from previous development efforts. The population of the Region consists largely of semi-
nomadic tribesmen with limited experience in sedentary agriculture and in controlled surface irrigation.
The population has been torn with frequent intra-tribal disputes and has always been vocal in claiming a
share of the oil revenue of the Region. As a consequence, ERADA has faced a serious challenge in
meeting the aspiration of the local populations some of whom thought of ERADA as the vehicle through
which government would channel subsidies and the provision of free services. It took much of
ERADA's efforts to change the expectation of some of the population and make them understand that its
institutional mandate was to help them develop themselves and not to channel govenmuent subsidies.
This is a major achievement for ERADA and one that will contribute to its sustainability as an
institution.
36.   Early in the project life, ERADA did not make sufficient efforts to sensitise farmers to the
benefits of the newly established irrigation scheme and the project. When conflicts over canal
alignments, irrigation water distribution scheduling, etc. surfaced, ERADA made a major effort in
cultivating farmers' support for the proper use of irrigation infrastructure.  At project closing,
considerable progress was achieved by ERADA in creating a partnership with beneficiaries. The
ownership and support of beneficiaries to the activities of ERADA and the MRRS are likely to improve
the sustainability of project activities and impact.



-10 -
37.   Like in most support services projects, sustainability in the medium-term must necessarily
depend on Government's commitment to recurrent expenditures. The mission was assured by
Government that, given the high investment already made and the level of infrastructure provided, funds
had already been committed for recurrent costs for the next two years. Past experience, however,
indicates that in view of constrained budgetary resources, such assurances have not always been easy to
keep. Nonetheless, factors that may contribute to government sustained support of project activities
include the fact that the project area is a border area where security is enhanced by support to
development. Another indication that the Government is committed to sustaining its support to the region
is its active contacts with the Abu Dhabi Fund (ADF) to resume ADF funding for the completion of the
Marib irrigation scheme. The ADF has apparently agreed and has sent a number of missions and hired
consultants to review the designs and complete the unfinished work started by Dogus contractors. There
is currently no policy on cost recovery for irrigation. The NWRA is responsible for developing a water
resources policy and has requested IDA support in its formulation. The Government favours a
Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) approach and will first evaluate the possibilities of the PIM
with spate irrigation schemes. The experience of the Wadi Hadramawt project will be directly relevant in
providing guidelines for the initial development of a cost recovery programme. In the project area,
farmers have constructed and covered the full cost of O&M of earthen tertiaries under project
supervision.
38.   The recent decision to fund research on the basis of approved sub-projects should provide for
sustainability of research services in the area. Free veterinary services are not sustainable, but as there is a
demand from farmers, cost recovery should be introduced. The sand dune fixation program and the
farner-planted windbreaks are supported by farmers and their value is well recognised. The programme
is considered to be sustainable.
39.   In conclusion, while the project's achievements have generally been satisfactory, its full
development and impact will only materialise in the distant future. The incremental funding for flood
repair and control works provided by the IDA-financed Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project, The
commitment of GOY to provide timely and adequate recurrent budget and the renewed interest of the
Abu Dhabi Fund in completing the Marib irrigation scheme, as well as GOY's commitment to improve
security led the ICR mission to believe that some degree of sustainability would be achieved. However,
past experience indicates that in view of severe budgetary constraints, such commitments and assurances
cannot always be kept.  In addition, control of the security situation is not always possible.
Consequently, the ICR mission rates project sustainability as uncertain.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
40.   The Bank's performance in project identification and preparation was satisfactory. However, its
performance at appraisal was not satisfactory due to the fact that both IDA and the Government
underestimated the social and security issues. The project, as appraised, was in line with GOY national
objective to assist in the promotion of balanced regional development. The initial project design
included a well integrated set of objectives. However, many extemal factors, beyond the control of the
Govemment and not foreseen at appraisal, had a dramatic effect on the implementation timetable.
Considerable flexibility from both IDA and the Govemment made it possible for the project to adapt to
changing circumstances and achieve its objectives. The Bank's performance in project supervision was
highly satisfactory, particularly the quick response to rapidly changing circumstances.  Sixteen
supervision missions were fielded and close project review continued even during unsettled times.
Relative continuity was maintained in the follow-up of critical issues. The close working relationships
between IDA, GOY and project management teams greatly assisted in the resolution of many problems
and bottlenecks.



-11 -
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
41.   With due consideration to some of the serious complications that arose during project
implementation and the fact that some of these complications were beyond the control of Govermment,
the overall borrower's performance was mixed.
42.   The performance of ERADA was variable throughout the project as a result of management
changes. Performance of ERADA's technical and support staff, as well as its Technical assistants was
satisfactory as they continued to be motivated and performed adequately under extremely difficult
conditions. Prior to the 1995 CPPR, standard Government procedures for procurement through MAI,
MOPD and the High Tender Committee created a serious blockage in procurement, particularly with
regard to small contracts. The performance of MRRS management and staff was good but was hampered
by inadequate allocations of operating budget. Therefore, the Borrower's performance regarding
recurrent budgetary allocations, particularly during the initial years of the project, was less than
satisfactory and caused some disruptions in the performance of research and extension activities. The use
by MRRS management of financial resources obtained from the sale of agricultural products produced on
the research farm alleviated this budget constraint and is an indication of their commitment and
dedication to the project.
43.   The co-operation between the Govemment and IDA was satisfactory.  It remained firn
throughout implementation period and resulted in a positive impact on project performance. The
Govemment has complied satisfactorily with the legal cove-covenants, as specified in the Development
Credit Agreement (Part II, Table 10).
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.   Despite the many serious, unforeseen and mostly extemal unfavourable factors that faced and
delayed project implementation, the project outcome is deemed to be satisfactory. The rapid adjustments
and corrective actions taken by both IDA and Government to changing circumstances are to be highly
commended. The performance of the construction of civil works, housing, extension centres and
ERADA headquarters and the MRRS can be judged as satisfactory. The impact of the project on
agricultural production became noticeable in early 1995.
45.   The project. has met its main objective of establishing the institutional framework for
development in the area. Facilities have been constructed to a high level of quality and ERADA and
MRRS should now be in a position to operate effectively, given stable security in the area. Agricultural
research has delivered varietal and cultural recommendations which already are showing significant
impacts at farm level. Field demonstrations have clearly had a positive impact on farmers' cultural
practices. The overall prognosis on the outcome of these activities is satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
46.   An excellent physical infrastructure has been completed, the necessary equipment has been
supplied and there has been considerable investment in human capital. The continued support of
ERADA and MRSS to agricultural production is paramount if the anticipated full development and
impact are to be achieved. To insure adequate future operation of the project, the Borrower must:
(i) complete the staiffing of the MRRS, (ii) complete the staffing and equipment of the two remaining
extension centers and one block center; (iii) and sustain the provision of budgetary resources to operate
and maintain ERADA and the MRRS. The ICR mission has received assurances that this is indeed the
Government plan. As indicated above, the IDA-financed Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project has



-12 -
committed funds to repair the flood-damaged canals and install comprehensive flood control structures.
In addition, the Abu Dhabi Fund is also reviewing the design of the whole scheme and is expected to
make changes that would make the irrigation infrastructure operational and less exposed to flood damage.
47.   Perhaps because the security situation continues to be of concern, the Government, through the
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI) inforned the ICR mission that it wishes to extend the area
of ERADA to include the Govemorate of Shabwa and would like to seek IDA's assistance to undertake
this task. The MAI indicated to the mission that it would prepare and send to IDA a formal request for
assistance in the financing of a follow-up project to the ERADP. The proposed project would
complement the irrigation scheme rehabilitation and completion to be financed by the Abu Dhabi Fund.
Furthermore, the Government has recognised that the best way to sustain the results achieved under the
project is for ERADA to continue work while cultivating the support and ownership of beneficiaries.
Continued IDA involvement would keep this participatory approach on track. Through both the Ministry
of Agriculture and Ministry of Planning, the Govenmment has indicated to the ICR mission that it intends
to give the enlarged Eastem Region (including Shabwa) a high priority. This priority status would result
in continued support to ERADA and other institutions in the area with adequate operating budget and
with additional investments in rural infrastructure and development.
48.   Finally, through a Public Expenditure Review (PER) exercise and an Agriculture Development
and Field Services Study (ADFSS), the Govemment and IDA are presently collaborating to make sure
that operating budgets continue to be available so that the intended benefits of investment project are
indeed attained. One of the main focus of the ADFSS will be to evaluate past experiences of several
projects, including the ERADP, in the development of research and extension and make proposal for
improving their efficiency ,returns and sustainability.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
49.   The following are the main lessons leamed:
(a) In hardship areas, the early construction of staff housing and the provision of special
allowances are necessary to motivate and attract qualified staff (Para. 7);
(b) Extension Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) should be exposed to new technologies early
on while they are being developed or verified by researchers; SMSs should participate in the
design and implementation of on-farm demonstrations of new technologies or varieties
(Para. 8);
(c) Success of the TA components can achieved when: (i) qualified experts are chosen; (ii) a
favorable environment for good performance is created; and (iii) temporary responsibility
for direct project implementation is given to TAs (Para. 15);
(d) The early training and creation of the Marib dam and scheme O&M unit helped alleviate the
potential devastation that would have been caused by the June 1996 floods.(Para. 20)
(e) In retrospect, the Abu Dhabi fund pullout had the unintended benefit of allowing the
empowerment of farmers to construct, operate and maintain with ERADA's assistance the
earthen tertiary canals, which were supposed to be constructed by the project (Para. 21);
(f) Research results obtained from other stations can provide a quick impact when they are field
tested for applicability and relevance and promoted immediately without unnecessary
duplication (Para. 24);



-13 -
(g) Sector and Country Portfolio Performance Review (SPPR and CPPR) are the most
appropriate fora to resolve generic issues (procurement, disbursement, exchange rate, etc.)
that affect the performance of projects and sectors. CPPRs should become a systematic
instrument in the management of Bank Group portfolios (Para. 27);
(h) Sensitising farmers and assisting them to directly take responsibility for implementing
activities that are of interest to them and to the project would, if properly managed, be the
most efficient way of implementing project activities and insuring their long-term
sustainability (Para. 30);
(i) Consultation and involvement of stakeholders is necessary to achieve and sustain
development activities and impact (Para. 36); and
(j) Unsettled security situations such as the one the Marib area can best be remedied by
sustained government support to improve the quality of life in this hardship area (Para. 37).



-14 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives              Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(9;0         0s)         (9)      (0
Macro policies                     El           L           E]            I9J
Sector policies                    III         [            [l            [
Financial objectives               EJ          I-            L]           [H]
Institutional development          El                        Li]          FI
Physical objectives                [I]         F]            [] 
Poverty reduction                     lE                     E            E]
Gender issues                       l          [1           F]            F]
Other social objectives            ED                       Ei]           L]
Environmental objectives           El          [1]          Fi1           E0
Public sector management           El          [E           El            El
Private sector development         El           El           Li]         [Fi
Other (specify)                    El           ElE                       El
B. Project sustainability                   Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
03)          (63)        09)
Highly
C. Bank verformance                       satisfactorv   Satisfactory   Deficient
(03)         09)         09)
Identification                   E           [;i           E
Preparation assistance            E          [i1           E
Appraisal                        E            E             I
Supervision                                   El           El



-15 -
Highly
D. Borrower performance                    satisfactor    Satisfactorv   Deficient
(0)          (V)          W;0
Preparation                                    [ I1         r
Implementation                       ]            ]          E
Covenant compliance                 ]E []
Operation (if applicable)          aK                       EK]
HhHikla
E. Assessment of outcome                satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(K])         Vs)            K])             (])
C:I  El   C                                E



-16 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits
Loan/Credit title                Purpose                Year of          Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Wadi Hadramaut            To build up infrastructure and     1976           Closed
Agricultural Development    institutions, carry out pilot
Project (WHADP) I          developments in area of the
(Cr. 615-YDR)             follow-up WHADP II.
2. Tihama Agricultural        To provide irrigation, village    1978           Closed
Development Project II     water supplies, extension, sand
(Cr. 805-YAR)              dune stabilisation, infrastructure
and development of State farms
for agricultural development in
Wadi Rima.
3. Tihama Agricultural        To increase agricultural          1979           Closed
Development Project HI     production in Wadi MAI by
(Cr. 880-YAR)              effectively using spate flows
and helping recharge the
aquifer; strengthening
agricultural support services
(research, extension credit),
building feeder roads, and
providing potable water to rural
poor.
4. Tihama Development Project  To support the Second            1980           Closed
IV (Cr. 978-YAR)           Agricultural Development in
Wadi Rima through provision
of surface irrigation in the form
of permanent diversion
structures.
5. Wadi Hadramaut             To increase agricultural          1983           Closed
Agricultural Development    production, raise farmer
Project II (Cr. 1346-YDR)    incomes, correct falling water
table via use of deep-lying
aquifers, provide farm
machinery and technical
assistance.
6. Central Highlands          To improve farm incomes           1984           Closed
Agricultural Development    through production and
Project (Cr. 1453-YAR)    productivity increases, provide
potable water.
7. Agricultural Research and  To strengthen agricultural        1985           Closed
Extension Project          research and extension capacity
(Cr. 1557-YDR)            in Central Highlands, Tropical
Lowlands, Southem Uplands
regions.



-17 -
Following operations
1. Tihama V (Cr. 1667-YARP    The project is a follow-up to     1986       Closed
Tihama I-IV, designed to ensure
sustainability by establishing
regional extension, veterinary
O&M services for the Tihama
Region and supporting women
in development. The project
would improve utilisation of
available land, water and
human resources in Tihama
Region and help substitute for
agricultural imports.
2. Southern Regional          To increase agricultural          1987           Closed
Agricultural Development    productivity and farmer income
Project (Cr. 1772-YAR)     in Southern Region through
strengthening agricultural
services in extension, credit and
input supplies, assist O&M of
project infrastructure and water,
raise technical capability of
staff, provide assistance to
women farmers.
3. Northern Regional          To improve agricultural           1988           Closed
Agricultural Development    productivity through:
Project (CR. 1886-YAR)     (i) improved agricultural
services, (ii) better land
management, (iii) improved
irrigation and agricultural
practices and improved
health/nutrition, establish
regional extension and O&M to
ensure sustainability.
4. Wadi Hadramaut             To follow-up on WHADP II          1989           Closed
Agricultural Development    with intention of expandig
Project III (Cr. 2045,YDR)    inigated area.
5. Agricultural Sector        To create within MAI the          1992          On-going
Management Support Project  management basis for a modern
(Cr. 2299-YEM)            agricultural sector, and to
strengthen agricultural research.
Also to improve general
operations of MAI.
6. Land and Water             To begin a national programme     1992          On-going
Conservation Project (Cr.    to reduce the erosion and gain
2373-YEM)                  control over land and water
resources.
7. Emergency Flood            To repair rural infrastructure    1997          On-going
Rehabilitation Project     damaged by 1996 floods



-18 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned               Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification a'                                                     August 1987
Preparation a/                                                        November 1987
Appraisal                                   June 1988                 March/April 1988
Post Appraisal                                                        September 1988
Negotiations                                October 1988              December 7-12, 1988
Board presentation                          December 1, 1988          January 31, 1989
Signing                                                               May 24, 1989
Effectiveness                               September 25, 1989        September 25, 1990
Restructuring                                                         March 11, 1991
Midterm review                                                        May 14, 1995
Project completion                          December 31, 1995         December 31, 1997
Credit closing                              December 31, 1996         December 31, 1997
a/ Identified and prepared with assistance from the FAO/CP.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Appraisal estimate           1.0     2.5     5.5     8.0    10.8   13.1   14.6   15.0   15.0
Actual                      0.0      0.1     1.2     1.3    3.2    5.3    7.2    10.8   12.1
Actual as % of estimate      0       4        22      16      30      40     49      72      81
Date of fnal disbursement:   April 9, 1998



-19 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
hmplementation         Unit    Planned         Planned           Actual               Comments
Indicators in SAR                 (SAR)    Restructuring  |
1. CIVIL WORKS
ERADA                                                                             ERADA also purchased
- Offices (HQ)               m2      1,000         900               500          prefabricated offices from
contractor
- Houses                   No.         20            22                14
- Ext.Net. Centres         No.           9           9                 9          Including housing facilities.
- Block Centres            No.           I           1                 2
- Sand dune protection      km           0          20                11
-Wells                     No.           0           5                 5
- Dike (Northern Canal)     No.          0           1                 0          planned at mid-term review,
initial work destroyed by
1996 floods
- Secondary canals          ha           0        1,750 ha gross    1325 ha gross  1,130 ha net completed on
12/31/97.
- Feeder Roads              km           0          42.8 km           50.3 km     of which 4.0 km asphalted.
AREA
- Admin. building           M2         450         450               450
- Houses                   unit          0          20                18
- Carshed                   02                     70                70
- Feederroads               km           0           0                 1.8 km     Completedwithproject
equipment
2. TRAINING
- Short -term              p.m.         72          84               154          108 beneficiaries
- Post-graduate            p.m.         72         210               242          11 beneficiaries
3. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
- Long-term                p.m.        612         522               572
- short-term               p.m.         17          45                12
Consultant studies         p.m.          0          33                12          At $5,000 per p.m.
4. VEHICLES
- 4-WD trucks              No.          59          48                34
- Motorcycles              No.          39          50                20
5. EQUIPMENT AND MACHINERY
- Tractors                 No.           4           2                 3
- Trailers                 No.           3           2                 2
- Thresher                 No.           4           2                 1
- Choppers                 No.           4           2                 4
- Motor sprayers           No.           8           4                45          of which 13 at 400 1 the rest
at 1001I



-20 -
- Farming equipment        No.         20    .      14             43        of which 15 knapsack
sprayers
- Heavy equipment          No.          8           10              8        (2 bulldozers, I motorgrader,
I excav., I crane, 2 compac,
I loader)
- Generators               No.                       3              3
- Workshop equipment        set         3            2              5
- Pumps and generators     unit        -2            4              5
- Drip irrigation         set4ha        -            2              2
- Surveying equip.          set         -           set           set
- Groundwater M&E eqp.      set                     set           set
- Hydrology Measuring       set         -           set           set
- Soil laboratory equip.    set         -           set           set
- Plant protection equip.   set                     set           set
6. OFFICE EOUIPMENT
- Computers                No.          -            3              8
- Copiers                  No.                       6              5
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
L Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                   Estimated                           Actual
Not identified at appraisal
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Purpose as defined
Study               at appraisal/redefined        Status            Impact of study
1. Feeder roads         To identify and design the      Completed  52 km of roads were
feeder roads that would service              constructed of which 4.3 km
the lands under inigation                    with asphalt cover
2. Flood control        To improve control measures     Completed  Construction commenced but
for existing damage to contiol               with further flood damage the
structures                                   contractor was demobilised
3. Protection of        To fence + control looting                   It was decided not to continue
archaeological sites                                              as fencing attracted attention to
vulnerable areas



-21 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$ M)        Actual/latest estimate (US$ M)
Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign       Total
costs       costs                  costs       costs
Item
Support to ERADA         4.1         3.3          7.4        4.0         8.2        12.2
Supportto AREA           3.3         2.8          6.1        0.6        0.9          1.5
Technical Assistance     0.2         4.4          4.6        1.5         2.7         4.2
& Training
O & M Service            1.5         2.7          4.2        n.a.       n.a.         ...
Tertiary Distribution    0.8         1.1          1.9        0.2         0.2         0.4
System
On-farm develop.         1.5         2.2          3.7         -           -           -
PPF                       ...         ...         ...        0.0         0.1         0.1
TOTAL                   11.4        16.5         27.9        6.3        12.1        18.4
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$ M)       Actual/latest estimate (US$ M)
Local     Foreign     Total       Local      Foreign     Total
costs      costs                  costs       costs
Source
IDA                         2.5       12.5        15.0        0.0        12.1      12.1
YAR Government              7.0        1.8         8.8        6.3         0.0       6.3
Beneficiaries                1.9       2.2         4.1         -           -         -
TOTAL                       11.4      16.5        27.9        6.3        12.1      18.4



-22 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Unit            SAR Estimates             ICR Estimates
A. Project Beneficiaries
- Farmers                            No.                  2,600                     2,660
B. Area (Cultivated)                  ha                 12,100                    11,480
C. Cropping Intensity                 %                    138                       105
D. Crop Yields
- Wheat                            tons/ha                 2.7                     1.2 - 2.2
- Sorghum grains                   tons/ha                 0.6                     0.8 - 1.2
- Vegetables                       tons/ha                 17.0                   8.0 - 15.0
E. Economic Rate of Return1'          %                   17.8                       13
1/ The M&E team of the PMU was able to identify six farming systems in the project area and respective representative
models are given in Appendix C. For each model/farming system, indications on land use, cropping intensity and crop
yields are based on data derived from a comprehensive survey which was carried out in the new Canal Command area
(1,130 ha net - Model A) and in the new upstream area (200 ha - Model D). Random sampling was carried out in the
remaining areas (Models B, C, E, and F). The economic re-evaluation of the project takes into account quantifiable
benefits deriving from these six different sub project areas for a total of 11,450 ha of cultivated area of which 8,440 within
the Marib scheme and the remainder outside the scheme but still benefiting from improved extension service as provided
under the project (Appendix 6, Table 3). Yields estimates and economic prices used in the analysis are given in Appendix
C, Tables 4 and 6 respectively. In the absence of specific production parameters, the project livestock incremental
production has not been evaluated. However, the incremental fodder production has been valued in line with its
commercial value and taken into account as project benefit. Details on total project incremental benefits are given in
Tables 8 to 12. On the basis of the above, the ex-post economic rate of return (ERR) has been assessed at 13 percent, i.e.,
about 5 points below the ERR estimated at appraisal (Appendix 6, Table 13). This is mainly due to the lower than
expected cropping intensity which is presently estimated at 104 percent well below the 138 percent foreseen at appraisal.
It is finally estimated that average farm income increases have ranged from 8 percent (Model E) to 15 percent (Model F)
as shown in Appendix C, Table 5.



-23 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original   Revised
Covenant Present Fulfilment fulfilment    Description of
Agreement   Section       type    status     Date        date         covenant          Comments
1. Credit   Schedule 4,    09       C    06/3011992             Mid-term Review     Completed in May
Para 6                                               Report.             1995.
2. Credit   Schedule 4,    05       C                            Acquire right-of-way Land cleared with
Para 7                                               of land for secondary approval of farmers.
canals prior to
issuance of bids.
3. Credit   Schedule 4,    10       C                           Acquire right-of-way Over 70% of
Para 8                                               for land for sand   beneficiaries signed
stabilisation prior to  declaration to yield
start-up.         right-of-way,
compensation is
expected by the
remaining 30% prior
to consent.
4. Credit   Schedule 4,    10, 05   C      12/31/1992           Appoint Director of  Director appointed
Para 10                                              Finance and Internal and trained.
Auditor.
5. Credit   Article Il,    05       C      12/31/1989            Establish guidelines  Pesticide use
Para 3.05                                            for handling and use  governed by MAI's
of agricultural    guidelines.
chemicals in project.
6. Credit   Article m,     02        C                           Cost recovery of   Farmers have built
Para 3.06(a)                                         O&M of tertiaries.  tertiaries by them-
& (b)                                                                    selves and are
bearing the full cost
of their O&M as
called for in the
project document.
7. Credit   Section 4.01   01      NYD   09/30/1997             Annual Audit Report. In compliance for all
previous years, 1997
audit not yet due.
8. Credit   Schedule 4,    05, 09   C                           Establish Advisory   Established in 1988.
Para 1(a)                                            Council to ERADA.  Chairman & Deputy
of ERADA. Deputy,
MOP; Deputy,
MOA; Deputy MOF,
D.G. CACB; Deputy
Governors of Marib
and Al Jawf; Rep. of
the local council
Marib and Al Jawf.



-24 -
9. Credit  Schedule 4,    05        C                            Water user groups    Farmers have built
Para 1(b)(1)                                           established in the    tertiaries themselves,
areas under        Groups are
irrigation.        distributing surface
water and are in
charge of O&M of
tertiaries.
10. Credit Schedule 4,    05       CD                            Design of feeder    Designs complete.
Para 2                                                 roads and flood    Designs and location
protection study.  of works had to be
changed as a result of
the June 1996 floods
which destroyed
existing roads and
flood protection
dikes. Extensive dike
works planned under
IDA-fmanced
Emergency Flood
Recovery Project.
11. Credit Schedule 4,    05        C                            Strengthen O&M      Local team has been
Para 3                                                 service of Marib   trained and is now
Dam.               fully active.
12. Credit Schedule 4,    05        C     06/30/1992             Archaeological and   Antiquities Dept.
Para 5                                                 historical sites study  Identified sites and
and based on that    mapped them;
prepare plan for   delineation with
conservation of such  fences were imple-
sites.             mented, however, the
fences were
destroyed by
Bedouins.



-25 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         I  Describe and comment on lack of compliance
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
No deviation from applicable operational manual statements observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                       Planned                 Revised               Actual
project cycle
Weeks        US$        Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$
Preparation to appraisal  n.a.       n.a.          -          -            0.3       0.5
Appraisal                n.a.        n.a.          -          -          109.0    225.9
Negotiations through     n.a.        n.a.          -          -            6.5      14.3
Board approval
Supervision              n.a.        n.a.          -          -          122.3    305.5
Completion               n.a.        n.a.          -          -           12.0      30.0
TOTAL                   246.1       712.6         -   L                 250.1     576.2



-26 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                        Number               Specialised    Implemen-   Develop-
project cycle     Month/year         of      Days       staff skills    tation       ment       Types of
persons   fienld   represented b/    status     objectives  problems
Identification       October 1987    n.a.      n.a.         n.a.           n.a.        n.a.         n.a.
Preparation         February 1988    n.a.      n.a.         n.a.           n.a.        n.a.         n.a.
Pre-Appraisal           July 1988    n.a.      n.a.         n.a.           n.a.        n.a.         n.a.
Appraisal           February 1989     4        n.a.     AE, A, IE, E       n.a.        n.a.         n.a.
Supervision:
I               June/July 1989     2        12         AE, IE           3            2         F, TA
2                October 1989      3        20       AE, DS, IE         3            2        M, F, TA
r3            Feb./March 1990      1        15          AE              3            2        M, F, T
4              September 1990      1        15           IE             3            3        M, TA, F
5                   July 1991      4        19     AE, IE, FA, SE      n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
6              September 1991      3         5        IE, AE, A         3            3         M, F, P
Feb./March 1992     3         13       IE, SE, A          3           3         F, TA, T
8                October 1992      2        15         AE, E            3            3         F, TA
June 1993     3          8       AE, IE, A          3           3         F, P, TA
10              Nov.lDec. 1993      2        13          A, IE           3            3       F. P, T, TA
11                October 1994      1        10           A              S            S          P, F
12 (MTR)        April/May 1995      2        20          A,IE            S            S          P, F
13              Sept./Oct. 1995     1         8           A              S            S          P, F
14                   June 1996      1        10           A              U            S          P, F
15              December 1996       1         5           A              U            S          M, L
16               May/June 1997      1         6           A              S            S           M
ICR                June/July 1997     3         16       AE, E, A          S            S           n.a.
ICR                     Feb. 1998     3         13        A, IE, E         S            S           n.a.
a!   P: Procurement Progress; F: Financial Performance; T: Training Progress; E: Environmental Aspects; TA: Technical
Assistance; M: Management; S: Satisfactory; U/3: Unsatisfactory; L: Legal Covenant.
bf   AE: Agricultural Economist; IE: Irrigation Engineer; L: Livestock Specialist; FM: Farm  Machinery Specialist;
FA: Financial Specialist; A: Agronomist; AN: Anthropologist; SE: Socio-Economist; DS: Dam Specialist.
Cf   Carried out by the FAO/CP.
d/   The same mission also carried out the preparation of ICR relative to the WH-III (Cr. 20450).
Cl   The updating of the draft ICR prepared by FAO/CP in July 1997 was carried out by a joint IDA and FAO/CP mission in
February 1998.
Test



APPENDIX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1983-YEM)
ICR MISSION'S MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING



- 27 -                                  Appendix A
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1983-YAR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
(February 26, 1998)
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
I. INTRODUCTION
1.      An IDA mission' visited Republic of Yemen during the period February 18 to 27, 1998 with
the objective of reviewing and assessing the achievements of the recently completed Eastem Region
Agricultural Development Project (ERADP). To achieve its objective the mission held discussions with
project staff and gathered the information necessaty to update and complete the Implementation
Completion Repcrt (ICR) drafted by the FAO/CP team in July 1997. The final draft of the ICR will be
sent to the Govemment for its review and comments prior to its submission to the Board of the World
Bank.
2.      The mission visited the project site in Marib on February 23, 1998 and worked in close
collaboration with the management and staff of the Eastem Region Agricultural Development Authority
(ERADA) and AREA's Regional Research Station. The mission discussed its findings and
recommendations with H.E. Mr. Ahmed Salem Al-Jabali, Minister of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI)
and H.E. Dr. Jaafar Hamed, Deputy Minister, Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD), as well as
other staff of MAI and MOPD.
3 .     The recommendations and agreements of the mission, as summarized in this Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU), are subject to IDA's Management review and confirmation. The mission wishes
to express its appreciation to H.E. Mr. Ahmed Salem Al-Jabali, Minister of Agriculture and Irrigation;
H.E. Dr. Jaafar Hamed, Deputy Minister, MOPD; Df. Amin Abdo Ahmed, Chairman of ERADA and
AREA's local and expatriate staff for their collaboration and assistance in the review and assessment of
the Project.
II. MAJOR PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
4.      The ERADP was designed to achieve two major objectives: (i) provide for the sustainability
and early usage of the production potential created by the Marib scheme, and (ii) increase agricultural
production and farmers' income in the project area. To achieve the above objectives, a number of
components and outputs were defined at appraisal and redefined when the ERADP was restructured in
1991. Based on project monitoring and evaluation data and other information provided by ERADA, a
brief assessment of the project's achievements is indicated below.
The IDA mission consisted of Messrs. Mohamed Noureddine Ben Ali, Senior Agriculturist, Task Team
Leader (February 18 to 27, 1998), Usaid El-Hanbali, Senior Irrigation Engineer (February 22-23, 1998)
and Raffaele Suppa, Senior Economist, FAO/CP (February 22-25, 1998



- 28 -
Appendix A
Page 2 of 5
(a) With regard to its first objective, the project has achieved the following activities and
outputs:
(i) The project established a well-trained and well-equipped team which is presently
operating and maintaining the Marib dam and irrigation canals; the achievement rate
for this output is 100 percent of project restructuring target, and
(ii) it equipped with secondary canals a total of 1,325 ha from and an anticipated gross
area of 1,750 ha; the achievement rate for this output is 76 percent of project
restructuring target.
(b)  With regard to its second objective, the project:
(i) developed agricultural research in the project area by constructing, equipping
laboratories and training the staff of the Marib Agricultural Research Station. The
station is now operating and has produced two new varieties of wheat and two
varieties of groundnuts in addition to various improved technologies in irrigation
water regimes, fertilization, pest control and crop husbandry practices. Some staff
positions remain open and need to be filled to allow for the full utilization of the
research potential created by the project; the achievement rate for this output is 85
Rercent of project restructurinz target:
(ii) supported agricultural extension and veterinary services in the project area by
constructing, furnishing, equipping and staffing nine extension centers and two block
centers (four of which were constructed through local financing). The newly created
extension service was able to undertake 4,980 farm visits, implement 68 on-farm
demonstrations and dispense more than 370,000 sheep and cattle vaccinations.
Despite a physical implementation rate of 100 percent the overall achievement of this
comPonent is rated 75 percent of proiect restructuring target, because some centers
remain under-staffed and under-equipped;
(iii)  improved ERADA's institutional capacity by financing infrastructure designs and
studies, providing technical assistance (49 p. year) and staff training (33 p. year).
The project also constructed and equipped one administration building and 32
housing units. Heavy equipment needed for the maintenance of the Marib dam, its
irrigation scheme and feeder roads was also procured by the project; the achievement
for these activities, vis a vis restructuring targets, was rated at 100 percent for the
studies and 76 percent for housing units. The training component was implemented
at a rate of 134 percent and the TA component at 99 percent of proiect restructuring
tar-aets;
(iv)  upgraded rural/agricultural infrastructure by rehabilitating existing roads and
constructing new gravel and asphalt roads. Over the life of the project, the 42.5 km
restructuring target was surpassed by 9.2 km, making for a constructed total of 52
km (of which 4 km are asphalted); the achievement rate for this output is 121 percent
of project restructurinz targets;
(v)  constructed 11 km of shelterbelts to stabilize sand dune movement and protect
agricultural areas. This was in addition to a number of small shelterbelts and wind
breaks of unknown quantity established directly by farmers with seedlings provided
by the project; the achievement rate for this output was estimated conservatively at
55 percent of project restructuring target.



29., -A
-9Appendix A
Page 3 of 5
III. PROJECT DI]SBURSEMENTS
5.      As of February 18, 1998 total project disbursements amounted to US$11.6 million or about 74
percent of the original credit amount of US$15.0 million. It is anticipated that by April 30, 1998, date at
which payment from the credit will cease, the total disbursed amount would reach about US$12.8
million. The balance of US$1.2 million would cover eligible expenses incurred before the project
closing date of December 31, 1997.
IV. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPACT
6.      Notwithstanding the significant delays in project effectiveness (20 months) and implementation
caused essentially by security concems, political ramifications of the Gulf War and the lack of trained
personnel in sufficient numbers, as well as strong economic distortions (disparity between the official and
parallel exchange rate of the Yrial caused significant delays in the implementation of civil works
contracts), the project was able to have a number of positive impacts. These are summarized below:
(a) At the end of the Gulf War, the Abu Dhabi Fund froze its financing and did not complete
the planned 6,000 ha Marib irrigation scheme. However, after restructuring, the project
was able to equip 1,325 ha with secondary irrigation canals and partially bring the Marib
scheme into early usage. This action had a very positive impact on the local populations
which would have otherwise remained unsupportive of the proposed irrigation
developments.
(b) By establishing a,d equipping the O&M team early in 1994, the project helped in
alleviating the potential devastation that wculd have been caused by the June 1996 floods.
Throughout the crisis period the O&M team gradually released water from the dam and
did not let it go over the spillway where it would have threatened lives and damaged
properties on its path. In addition the work of the O&M team made it possible to keep
gates and other specialized equipmen:t fuictioning properly.
(c) The project's institutional support to ERADA and to AREA's Marib Research Station
(MRS) enabled these two institutions to provide farmers in the region with greater
research and extension support. This has a significant and positive impact on crop yields
which increased by an average of 21 percent for wheat, 66 percent for sorghum grain and
28 percent for vegetables. Far.m incomes also increased by a margin of between I I to 17
percent.
(d) Taking into account the benefits deriving from various farming systems in the 11,450 ha
served by the project, the ex-post economic re-evaluation of the project indicates that the
economic rate of retum is about 13 percent. This is about 5 points lower than the ERR
anticipated at appraisal. The reason for this lower ERR is essentially explained by the fact
that the installation, by the Abu Dhabi Fund, of irrigation canals on the planned 6,000 ha
did not materialize. Nonetheless, it is estimated that more than 2,600 farm families have
benefited from the project.



- 30 -
Appendix A
Page 4 of 5
V. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7. As in most support services projects, sustainability will be a function of the Government's
commitment to recurrent expenditures. The O&M of the Marib dam and scheme is very likely to be
sustainable given the Government's commitment to the development of the area and the protection of its
citizens from the risks of floods. Funding has been secured under the IDA-supported Emergency Flood
Recovery Project to complete the installation of secondary canals in sectors S4 and S5 (to complete the
total of 1,750 ha planned under the restructured ERADP) and for the rehabilitation of the flood-damaged
main canals. In addition, redesign work has been initiated under the Abu Dhabi Fund which has recently
decided to complete the construction of the Marib irrigation scheme as originally planned. ERADA has
sufficient trained staff and specialized equipment to maintain the feeder roads it has constructed.
Recurrent expenditures for O&M of the Marib dam, irrigation scheme and roads network, as well as for
extension services have already been incorporated in ERADA's operating budget. Provided that no
drastic budget cuts are imposed on ERADA's budget, the sustainability of these services would remain
very likely. Sand dune stabilization activities and the establishment of windbreaks to protect agricultural
lands and plantations has been adopted by farmers and will be sustainable, albeit at slower pace than
under the ERADP.
8.      The sustainability of research services at the Marib station is also very likely in view of the
recent decision by AREA headquarters to fund adaptive research on the basis of approved sub-projects
that provide additional incentives and greater responsibility to researchers. The Ministry of Finance has
recently allocated additional resources (12 million Yrials) to fund result oriented research activities and
the MRS has already benefited from these extra funds.
9.      In conclusion, the feeling among ERADA, MRS management and the IDA mission is that,
while the project's present outcome is generally satisfactory, its full impact will only be achieved if its
services and suppcrt to its beneficiaries are sustained as anticipated, during the next decade. The
Govermment is aware of this challenge and has assured the IDA mission of its commitment to maintain
adequate funding to cover recurrent costs and sustain support services to agricultural development along
with improving the security situation in the project area.
VI. AGREED FUTURE ACTIONS
10.     To ensure the timely completion of project disbursements, the following action plan would be
adhered to and given absolute priority by the financial department of ERADA.
A. Actions to be Implemented by ERADA
Action                                      Due Date
Complete and send to IDA the remaining replenishment applications to   March 30, 1998
allow IDA to fully recover the initial deposit to the project's Special
Account
Refund unutilized balance ofthe Special Accountto IDA Account ABA   March 30, 1998
0210-8210-4, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, New York, with
reference "Unutilized balance of Special Account IDA 1 9830-YEM".



- 31 -
Appendix A
Page 5 of 5
Action                                     Due Date
Signed agreement with Kahlan Co. to cancel contract for flood  March 30, 1998
protection dike and recover the unutilized money that the contractor
received as part of the advance payment. The amount to be recovered,
subject to final agreement with the contractor, is estimated to be about
US$37,400. This amount should be retumed to IDA directly or through
the project's Special. Account at IDA's New York Account indicated
above.
After the full recovery of the initial deposit to the Special Account,  Last application in good order
ERADA should send to IDA complete applications for direct payment   to be sent to IDA through
by IDA for eligible expenses incurred (paid or due) before December 31, Resident Mission's office by
1997. All applications should be sent to IDA through the Resident  April 20, 1998.
Mission office so that these arrive in Washington prior to April 30, 1998  _
B. Actions to be Implemented by IDA
Action                            J        Due Date
Complete draft Implementation Completion Report and send it to  April 30, 1998
Government for its comments.
Sana'a, Thursday, February 26, 1998
Mohamed Noureddine Ben Ali                     Dr. Amin Abdo Abmed
ERADP Task Team Leader, MNSRE                     Chairman, ERADA
IDA - The World Bank Group



APPENDIX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EASTERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1983-YEM)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REVIEW
FROM THE
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



- 32 -
I    Project Impact
Many aspects of the project effect and project impact can not be assessed
at the time but some impacts can be indicated.
(A) Positive Impact
1. Technological Impact:- The agricultural extension pro7pram had
promoted the use of modern inputs such as fertilizers, insecficides,
pesticides improved seeds, and machinery in the project area. Farmers
were responsive to some extend to use the recommended modem
technology.
2. Tr.e veterinary and animal extension program had a notable impact on
.the level of awareness of many farmers in Marib area with respect to
improved methods of animal husbandry and various diseases. The
livestock owner response positively to the extend that the farmer
comes frequently to be helped by the depart.
.. Agro  economic  Impact:-  Eventhough  buying  and seling of
agricultural lands in the project area is a rare phenomenon, yet the
average prices of the agricultural land had increased simce 1992. The
average price per hectare of an average quality land under spate and
wells imgation had increased from YR200,000 in 1992 to 600,000
nowadays . This is partially due to optimistic outlook of investors in
view of services provided by the project and partiallyto changing
altitrides of the farmer community towards agricultural activities in
Marib area which become more commercial oriented and started to be
perceived as a investment opportunity rather than a subsistence
activity.
4. Environmental Impact:- The increased irriaable area (around 5000 ha),
the sand dunes stabilized in the project area, the Shelter Belt
established around farmer fields and villages, and tree seedlings
distibuted and planted in and / or around villages and public
institutions in the project area had a positive impact oon climate in
decreasing the temp to one two degrees during the last ten years
Moreover the speed and magnitude of wind and storm is notably
decrease.
5. Social Impact:-
The project Generate different indirect benefit:
- The Beneficiaries about 15000 (2780 family) has acquired
reasonable level of knowledce with respect to use of modern
aoriculture practices which  have resulted in increasing the
productivitv and consequently increasing their income leading
with time to rural poverty alleviation.
- Forward linkage effect of the project is represented bv the
added net out put of marketing firms in MIarib or in Sana'a, the



- 33 -
easy access of farmers contacts with social services in cities (
clinics, hospitals, schools, etc..) .
- Backward linkage effect can be assessed by the construction of
feeder roads where new business opportunities (shops of
Agricultural inputs  spare  parts,  general services etc...)
flourished along the roadsides, creating new jobs and income.
- Multiplier effect:- The widely diffused chain of increases in
income and expenditures that is generated by the project, create
farmers writh higher earnings who  buy more goods from
shopkeepers, who in turns earn and reinvest more.
(B)Negative Impact:-
1- Some cases of malaria and Bilharzia have been registered in recent
years, which probably generated by the stagnant water in the lake and
wells . These cases, according to the Health offEce statistics in Marib,
are very few but Rapid actions had been taken by ERADA and the
office of health at marib to overcoome this problem . The Result
obtained is encouraging.
2- An other problerm arises concerning the existence of algaes in the lake
of the darL These algaes may contaminate the aquifers and may
create some problems in the irrigation network.
ERADA had taken remedial measures by using Bolti fish, which will
feed on Algae. These Bolti fish imported from Sudan in'Sept 96 were
completely adapted and started to give it's second generation. The result
is not completely assessed.
II    Project sustainability:-
In order to maintain the quantity and qualify of services provided by
ERADA, we believe that the government should adapt necessary action
and find out the solutions of financing to these following measurements.
1. Staff and Personnel.
Lately it was observed that some qualified staff of ERADA who had been
trained inside and outside the country, were thinking to leave the project.
This is attributed to the following:-
- Lack of occupational motives.
- The chance of training abroad has terminated by the expected
fiuture closure of the credit.
- Some problems of security.
- Lack of incentives.
2



-34   -
Furthe=rore, there is no difference in occupation and wages between the
employee who works in Marib, and his colleque who lives in a city and
who may find an additional income source.
We believe that, it is the role of the government to allocate the necessary
funids to distinguish the staff working in Marib and other hardship areas
from those who work in the city.
2. Agricultural and animal extension programs:-
This vital program needs to be extended to cover the other outside Marib
command area, specially after the approval of funds to complete the
remairnin irrigation network of Canals. This important component needs
basic institutions and infstructure, moreover the operational budget
should be allocated.
3. Shelter Belt and Wind break:-
The targeted length of ShelterBelt (20km) in the restructuring was not
attained (only 9.8km) up to the project closing date an other tow km were
expected to be planted . The diffusion of seedlings for windbreak is
continued with satisfactory rate. These indirect benefits need necessary
and additional funds to continue.
4. The services provided by Marib research station are still modest due to
the length delay in achieving the necessary procurement and civil
work. Now, AREA HQ Building had been constructed (June 96), and
well equipped, reasonable no ofstaff is available.
Efforts should continue to find out realistic-solutions to problems facing
the agriculture production ( high yielding varieties, varieties tolerant to
drought, disease resistance varieties etc.) moreover the monitoring of
water quality is necessary to be continued (since farmers-used modem
technology). We believe also, that it will be difficult to AREA to continue
wiihout the necessary funds to be allocated.
5. The other component of the project like the feeder road, the
maintenance and replacement of vehicles and heavy equipment, the
rnaintenance and operation of Marib dam, Buildings etc.) all these
important component needs to be financed. ERADA, itself can
participate to some extend in financina through the following:--.
- To adapt realistic and applicable policy throughbeneficiaries
contribution in cost recovery.
- To try to invest or heir the far;n possessed by ERADA (83 ha).
3



- 35 -
- Good policy for heavy equipment rents.
- To make use of Canal factory.
III  Lessons to be learned :-
1 .   Credit Effectiveness:- Notable delay was noticed between signing
the agreement (May 24th, 1989 ) and date of effectiveness ( Sept.
30h, 1990), one year afterwards the project amended and hence the
1 ' trench in 1992 - IDA should acree with the borrower on how to
find out the realistic ways and means capable to overcome pre-
start-up delays encountered due to credit effectiveness delays.
2.   Contracting Reaulations :- The workshop organized by IDA on
July 1996, has a significant influence in facilitating the procedure
of contraction Eventhough, notable delays encounter.ed for
contracts of small amounts ( less than US S 15000). The contractor
normally is not encouraged to provide the performance bond for
this small amount bearing in mind his price quotations normally
limited to a short period of validity (not exceeding 15 days) this
period will never cover the time required for the long procedure
undertaken fill the opening of TJC (this procedure takes normally
about one month in  analyzing the offers, obtaining ERADA
approval, MOPD approval and 3 to 4 days for the process of
opening the LIC in the Central Bank ). Tne example of this delay is
the procurement of refrigerators for the extension centers ( more
than one year ) 4 times, offers evaluated but the supplier refuse to
maintain his initial prices due to the delay of opening the L'C. IDA
and the borrower should agree to overcome this problem by giving
ERADA management the authorization of direct purchasing in the
limnit agreed upon.
3.   The borrower should undertaken rigorous measures against those
who handicap the activities of the project and threaten the staff of
ERADA. The measures of securitv control should be applied
immediately otherwise the project sustainability will nof ensured.
4.   Planing realistic implementation period: - IDA should take into
account  important factors  such  as  the  macro  economic
environment. The  absorptive  capacity, prevailing rules and
regulations with respects to contracting procedures, problems
related to security etc... to arrive at a reasonable and realistic
project implementation period.
4



- 36 -
5.   Cost Recover9:- This aspect should be carefully monitored.bv IDA
mission . Due to the particular character and attitude of population
in the area, a system of collecting water charge should be applied
gradually and carefully. This system beside its direct-effect of cost
recovery will improve the productivity.
6.   The finding of field surveys conducted by ERADA, reflect the
importance of livestock for the farmers (86 out of 89 random
samples, possess aninmals in their farms). Therefore great artenion
should be given to this aspect.
7.   Despite of the incremental production achieved in the areain the
recent years, the marketing access are not parallely- improved,
quality, high cost of transportation due to absence of improved
feeder roads, handling, standardization, grading etc.
IV    Borrower performance: -
The  implementing agency (ERADA) is a semi-autonomous
authority created by a presidential decree in 1987 and entrusted to lead
the agriculture development efforts in the Eastern Region. ERADA had
been confronted by several problems at the early stages of it's
establishment, namely: -
- Bottleneck in staff due to lack of incentives.
- Lack of institutional infrastructure.
- Some limited problems of security.
- Notable delay in recruitment of technical staff.
Three years,. onwards ERADA, has a wel-structured departments (
Agric., administration, finance, Engineering, Marib dam Adni. M & E
and sand dune stabilization). With slightly clear defined functions and
with adequate and qualified staff in most project activities. TUnfortunately
this qualified staff start to leave ERADA due to lack of incentives (see
project sustainability).
1. ERADA management and staff had actively participated in the project
preparation and appraisal and in mid-term review, making
constructive comments on the project components - ERADA
performance during the stage of project preparation, appraisal and
mid-terrn review could be evaluated as satisfactory.
2. During the stage of implementation, ERADA had succeeded in some
project components civil works, procurements but other components
had been confronted by different problems of various nature.
Moreover, rezarding the procurement, notable delay in time schedule was
noticed, overrun cost for certain item of procurement was registered.
5



- 37 -
Furthermore, due to causes beyond ERADA control, the local component
for supplier was delayed - in addition significant delay was encountered
in land acquisition of some extension centers.
ERADA had recruited foreign and local experts and consultants, in some
disciplines, but here also the delay was noticed.
ERADA , from other point of view, fail to find out reasonable and
practical  cost  recovery policy which would ensure smooth and
sustainable operations of the project activities all the above registered
delay are attributed to many causes outside the control of ERADA
management - some factors are exogenous (Gulfwar), others are
indigenous (civil war in 1994 and the lack of security in the area.
The effect of these extemal and internal factors are clearly.beyond the
control of project maniagement and thus delay in project performance
resulting from  them  Should  not* afcribed to inadequate project
management .The policy adopteclby EIRADA in selecting contractors
belonging to the region relatively facilitated the role of ERADA.
V   IDA Performance
1. The project was prepared with assistance from the FAO/CP in
November 1987, IDA appraised the project in September 1988. The
SAR based mainly on the conistruction of Marib darn (-1987) and the
network of main and tertiary canals. The objective was to increase the
area. irmgated by the dam and to increase the productivity and hence to
participate in poverty alleviation in the region.
IDA Performance durina project preparation and appraisal had been
highly satisfactory.
2. IDA had exhibited reasonable level of flexibility towards the project
in some of its component and sub-components IDA also agreed to
extend the closure of the project from Dec. 96 to Dec. 97. Moreover,
IDA had aoreed several times to the amendment between categories.
Recently IDA agreed to finance Sector 4 & Sector 5 in order to
increase the irrigable area by 740 ha. Efforts exercisedbyIDA in
returning back the heavy equipment requisitioned by some tribal
leaders is envisioned. Overall -it could be genuinely argued that the
level of flexibilitv and responsiveness exercised by IDA during the
project implementation is an instrumental element in accomplishing
the current results attained by the project.
3. IDA Supervisory missions had been very effective in monitoring all
aspects of the project and in providing constrctive suggestions to
overcome problems confronting project performance. Moreover, IDA
mission had been quite helpful in providing guidance for future
actions and in reviewing actions taken by ERADA in response to
6



- 38 -
TaMe 5: Kay lafanrn tor7rje.ct Zziplmenma
VZ- inve*aaion                    F..P~d         Plamaledau
idc&xt ia SRA                 (SAl)             g 
t. CIs-IL WORKXS
ERAD.A                                                                               ERADA shop=aodxFdai=cd
O t5    (TH)               u        1000           900                500
. -vmcs      '>0o.                   20             22                  14
-  \ VgCd                  No.    9                    9                  9           g
EBacckC4cur                Na.          I              1                  2
-     dunceyac ia          km          0              20                 11
. vWdls                    No.                        5                  5
D    (--xtbhan C*Aa       NO.         0              1                  0          piIcd at6aam vw, h,
wak &Ayodby 196 'Boo&
- S.xajdm-v cm*1s          12.750 ha                                  1325 ha gm   1,130 Ibmg  glW Sd  1213LS97.
- F' Roaar                 km           0             42.2 km            5Isa        ofwhicw 4.0km  baked
ARL4
* .&.~. baidi,g            m          450            450                450
0             20                 1s
- C  .d xn2    0         70                 70
- CF r d%ed                 ml                                           1
*Fcodw roa&               lam.km                                                    CaIalip~x ~im
2. T-GRAr,iG
-bctX                                72 S4                            154          10 befidarim
72            210                242          1llb dwia
3. TECEN-ICAL AM'o=A-NCZ            612            522                572
- ~at4m                l17                          45                 12
0             33                 12          Al S5,000 pwpA.
.4 VFCLES
4,'D             =         ~~      ~      ~~        ~       ~~~~59  48  34
- 4-WD                       .         39                                20
- mauxCycim        ~~No.
5. EQcSYME?4T AND -MACMDNERY
*Trzas                                 3              .2                  2
TEsesber                 b;o.         4              2                  1
No|x^s   bb.               2                  4
I%ausprzv4ws               o.         S              4                 45          ofwh i13g4001*AetsA1001
F-     ~20                                          14                 43          ofwh(id 15 bb2u  q3Zyu
- Hcvqu^at               Io.                        10         S                   (3 b,ldom    Inpa.I
wv., 1 mc,2         1 obad)
Gczo        ,            '             ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  3
cxmcrzors          No.          -
-    <    eqat             __          3              2                  5
p     aDd    rt            -2                        4 5
Drs  irriica sxb*^                    '              2                  2
*        ~~~~am              3Ct
Cr ~            MkE  ap.  set              ~        o                   e
*Soil labo~r oqwp. 
-?Iwa  Pr-%Cti  -*        a
C. OF7I-Z EQL0NIEN
N.5   50    -              3                   8
* C                        No.          '6                   



- 39 -
To: Mr. Mohamed Noureddin Ben Ali
Task manager, ERADP
Fax: (202 ) 477- 1374, The World Bank
Washington, USA
CC: Dr. Amin A.Ahmed
ERADA Chairmnan, Marib
Date: November 4 ,1997.
Ref. IDA Memo of Understanding (MLOU) dated SeDtember. 1997.
(key action )
Dear Ben Ali
Please find here under our input to the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR ) .
1- Paze 10, para 52: Sustainability.
We suggest the following to be added after the first sentence " The
Government has already started implementing this decisions by allocating 5 million
Y.Rs for the rapid Impact Program (RIP) - the on farm trials for the fiscal 1998 year
.This is over and above the regular budgetary allocations to research for 1998.
2-page 10-11: IDA Performance
AREA - Marib has expressed to ICR mission its views on IDA
performance which have not reflected in the report . AREA - Marib wishes to state its
appreciation to IDA for its highly positive support in all maters pertinent to
implementation of the research components.
3-pgge 13 . -para 75 sub.para 2: Kay lessons learned.
AREA - Marib doesn't shar=e"the ICR missions point of view that the
separation of AREA and ERADA under two different managementrs could the major
causefor dte lack of cooperation between Research and Extension. The underlining
causes could be crystallized inidequate support for Extension, well trained persomel
particularly at the field level ( page 6 / 7 para 31 of ICR ) and meager budgetary
allocations ( page 11, para 62 of ICR ) .Admittedly research could not provide al the
required tcchnical information since such information couldn't be generated in a short
period of time . Nevertheless the informadon gap has been narrowed by extrapolation
of results from other Research Stations of similar environmental conditions notably
Saiyun Research Station . There is a room for improvement on the present Research /
Extension / Farmer Linkages developed by AREA - Marib with the generation of more
relevant technology ard as Researchers and Extension worlkers gain experience and
confidence .
With best regar
Sincere
Dr.  oh   d Al-Nassiri
Director, AREA - Marib



APPENDIX C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EAST'ERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1983-YEM)
PROJECT ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: Eastern Region Agricultural Development project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 1. Total Project Cost in Current US$
Categories                             1990       1991        1992       1993         1994      1995        1996       1997       Total
.................................................................I........ . . . . . .  ...I........................ (S'0)
I (a) Civilworks (ERADA)                752       1,277       170         448         700        176       1,051       1,487       6,061
1 (b) Civil works (AREA)                 -          -           -          -          -          133         524         392       1,049
2 Civil works - canals                   -          -           -          -           -          -          149         505         654
3 (a) Vehicles/equip. (ERADA)           628          49       174         962         772        740         874        1,120      5,319
3 (b) Vehicles/equip. (AREA)             -          -          25           10        -          239         214         243         731
4 (a) T.A. (ERADA)                      476         657       399          405        694         572        462         507       4,172
4 (b) T.A. (AREA)                        -          -            9          10         43         125         89          66         342     >
S PPF                                    81         -           -          -           -          -          -           -            81
Total:                        1,937      1,983       777        1,835      2,209       1,985      3,363       4,320      18,409
Source: PMU.



Table 2. Investment Costs in Constant 1997 Prices
Total Investment Costs                              Total Investment
Costs
Consumer Price Index                     Current Term     Constant 1997 Prices    Exchange Rate    Constant 1997 Prices
(USA)              Inflator        (US$'000)      |    (US$'000)           US$ = YR2            (YR'000)
1990              100.0               1.22              1,937               2,363                12.01              28,380
1991              104.2               1.17              1,983               2,320                12.05              27,956
1992              107.4               1.14               777                  886                33.10              29,327
1993              110.6               1.10              1,835               2,019                48.62              98,164
1994              113.4               1.08              2,209               2,386                80.75             192,670
1995              116.6               1.05              1,985               2,084               121.05             252,268
1996              120.0               1.02              3,363               3,430               128.19             439,672
1997              122.0 5             1.00              4,320               4,320              129.005             557,280
See Table 1.
2Central Bank of Yemen
End of 1997



Table 3. Farming Systems and Total Cultivated Project Area
Total Area    Farm          Nb. of Holdings     Total Area at Full Development (ha)    Cropping Intensity (%)
Without       Size      Without      With       Gross       Net      Cultivated    Without     With
Project (ha)   (ha)       Project     Project                                       Project     Project
1. Inside Marib Scheme
A. Canal -newareas                          4           -           280       1,325       1,130       1,410        -         125
B. Well (close to Marib Dam)  4,000         5           800         800       4,700       4,000       5,200       119        130         p
C. Well (end of scheme)        900          3           300         300       1,060        900         990        108        110
D. Upstream irrigation                     2.5          -            80         235        200         200         -         100
E. Downstream irrigation      1,000         5           200         200       1,180       1,000        640        64          64
11. Outside Marib Scheme
F. Spate/well                 3,800        3.8        1,000       1,000       4,450       3,800      3,040        80          80
Total:                   9,700                   2,300       2,660      12,950      11,030      11,480       97         104



Table 4. Comparative Yields (Mt/ha)
SAR                       Model A               Model Js               Model C                Model D                Model E                Model F
Future     Future     Without   With         Without   With        Without   With         Without   With         Without   With         Without   With
Present    Without   With        Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project
Project    Project
Wheat                 1.4         1.7        2.7                   2.2         1.6        2.2        1.5        2.0       -           -            1.2        1.4         I.0        1.3
Maize                -            1.8        3.0       -           2.7       -            2.8       -           2.8,      -           -          -           -          -          -
Sesame                0.5        0.6        0.9        -           0.8        0.7         0.8        0.6        0.7       -            0.55        0.5        0.7        0.4         0.5            U
Sorghum (grain)       0.6        0.6        0.6        -           1.2         1.0        1.2       -            3.3      -            I.0        0.8         3.0        0.9         1.0            I
Sorghum (stalks)     -          -          n.a.        -           2.6        2.2         2.6       -           2.4                    2.0         1.8        2.2         1.8        2.2
Alfalfa              55.0       60.0        78.0       -          -          60.0        70.0       50.0       58.0        -          -          45.0        50.0       30.0        40.0
Vegetables            9.0       11.0        17.0       -          15.0       12.0        13.0       I0.0       11.5       -           11.0         8.0        9.5        6.0         7.0
Citrus                9.0       12.0        16.0       -          -          12.0        12.5       10.0       13.0       -           -            8.0       10.0        6.0         7.5
Funigreek            -          -          -           -           1.3       -            1.3       -           0.8       -            0.8       -            0.8       -            0.6
Source: Data provided by M&E of PMU: For Models A and D data has been derived from complete field surveys. For the remaining Models, data is based on random samplings carried
out four times during the project period.



Table 5. Average Net Incremental Farm Incomes
Model A     Model B     Model C      Model D     Model E      Model F
A. Income per ha (YR'000/ha)
(i) Without Project                  -         208.4        199.5         -           90.6        84.3
(ii) With Project                  165.6       237.3        225.5       100.0         98.1        97.2
(iii) Incremental                  165.6        28.9         26.0       100.0          7.5        12.9
B. Average Farm Size (ha)              4            5           3           2.5          5           3.8
C. Average Farm Income (YR'000)
(i) Without Project                  -         1,042.0      598.5         -          453.0       320.3
(ii) With Project                  662.4       1,186.5      676.5       250.0        490.5       369.4
(iii) Incremental                  662.4       144.5         78.0       250.0         37.5        49.1
% increase                          ...          14          13           ...          8           15



Table 6. Net Value of Incremental Production at Full Development-New Areas: Land Command Area (1,130 ha) and Upstream Spate Irrigation (200 ha)
(in Financial Terms)
Cultivated                                            Gross Value    Production    Total Production
Area         Yield      Production      Prices     of Production    Cost           Costs       Net Benefits
(ha)        (ton/h4a      (tons)      (YR/ton)      (YR'O00)      (YR/ha)        (YR'000)       (YR'000)
Canal Command Area (1,130 ha)
- Wheat                          480           2.2          1,056        38,000        40,128        34,000         16,320         23,808
- Sesame                         200           0.8           224         71,500        16,016        35,900         7,180           8,836
- Funigreek                      340            1.3          442        75,6001        33,415        45,700         15,538         17,877
- Maize                           26           2.7            70        35,0001         2,450        30,300           788           1,662
- Sorghum (grqin)                  84          1.2           101         30,000         3,030        19,400          1,630          1,400
- Sorghum (stalks)                (84)         2.6           218          4,000           872         ...            ...              872
Vegetables                        280         15.0          4,200        40,000       168,0Q0       126,080         35,302        132,698
Total:                     1,410                                                263,911                       76,758         187,153
Upstreams (200 ba)
- Sesame                          40           0.55           22         71,500         1,573        23,000           920             653
- Funigreek                       40           0.8            32        75,6001         2,419        37,000          1,480            939
- Sorghum (grain)                 70           1.0            70         30,000         2,100        19,400          1,358            742
- Sorghum (stalks)               (70)          2.0           140          4,000          560          ...            ...              560
- Vegetables                      50          11.00          550         40,000        22,000        98,000         4,900           17.100
Total:                      200                                                  28,652                        8,658          19,994
Source: PMU, 1997 prices.



Table 7. Economic Prices for Major Agricultural Outputs and Inputs (Import Parity Prices)
Funigreek |  Sorghum               Maize        Soybeans (Pulses)  I   Wheat   I Vegetablesz  I Sesame I               Urea           TSP
........................................I..............................  ........................   ( S / o ) .. ......................................................
Price projection 2005 in constant 1990 terms3                           97.3            100.3              247.0              128.7                                         140.0          118.3
MUV index                                                              1.077            1.077              1.077           .  1.077                                         1.077          1.077
Price projection 2005 in constant 1997 terms                             105              108                266                139                                          151            127
Quality adjustment factor                                                 1.0             0.9                 0.9                0.9                                            1              1
Adjusted f.o.b value                                                     105               97                239                125                                           151            127
Freight and insurance                                                     50               50                 50                 50                                            50             50
C.i.f value of port ofentry                                              155              147                289                175                                          201             177
.(YR/ton)..........................................................   ......................  (YR/ton) ................................ .
C.i.f value of port of entry4                                          19,995          18,963             37,281             22,575                                        25,929         22,831
Port dues, handling                                                    6,000            6,000              6,000               6,000                                        6,000          6,000
Transport/storage/losses5                                               3,000           2,800               5,600             3,400                                         3,900          3,400
Value ex-store/market                                                 28,995          27,763              48,881             31,975                                       35,829         32,233
Transport market/farm                                                 (1,000)          (1,000)            (1,000)            (1,000)                                      (1,000)         (1,000)
Fanngate price economic                               50,600          27,995          26,763              47,881             30,975         40,000         48,000         34,829          31,233
Farmgate price financial                              75,600          30,000           35,000             71,500             38,000         40,000         71,500          40,000         35,800
Conversion factors                                     0.67             0.93            0.77                0.67               0.82           1.00           0.67           0.87           0.87
Same conversion factor as soybeans (0.67).
2 Considered as "non tradeable".
3World Bank Commodity Price Projections, November 1997.
4Exchange rate: I USs = 129 YR (end 1997).
5 Estimated at 15% of value.



Table 8. New Areas: Canal Comniand (1,130 ha) and Upstrcams (200 ha) - Net Value of Incremental Production at Full Development
(in Economic Terms)
Cultivated                                               Gross Value     Production    Total Production
Area          Yield       Production       Prices      of Production     Cost            Costs         Net Benefits
(ha)         (ton/ha)       (tons)       (YR/ton)   |(YR'000)          (YR/ha)         (YR'000)        (YR'000)
1. Canal Command Area (1,130 ha - new areas: Model A)
-Wheat                       480            2.2           1,056         33,2131        35,073         32,000          15,360           19,713
- Sesame                     200            0.8            224          48,000         10,752         33,750           6,750           4,002
- Funigreek                  340            1.3            442         55,9001         24,708         42,960          14,606           10,102
- Maize                       26            2.7             70         28,3561          1,985         28,480            740             1,245
-Sorghum (grain)              84            1.2            101          27,995          2,828         18,240           1,532            1,296
- Sorghum (stalks)            (84)          2.6            218           4,000            872          ...             ...               872
Vegetables                   28             15.0         4,200          40,000        168.000        118,520          33,186          134,814
Total:                1,410                                                     244,218                         72,174          172,044
Cropping intensity          125%
II. Upstreams (200 ha - new areas: Model D)
-Sesame                       40            0.55            22          48,000          1,056         21,620            865              191
- Funigreek                   40            0.80            32         55,9001          1,789         34,780           1,391             398
- Sorghum (grain)             70            1.0             70          27,995          1,960         18,240           1,277             683
- Sorghum (stalks)           (70)           2.0            140           4,000            560          ...             ...               560
- Vegetables                  50           11.00           550          40,000         22.000         92,120          4,606            17,394
Total:                  200                                                      27,365                          8,139           19,226
Cropping intensity          100%
Source: PMU, 1997 prices.
'Including value of by-products.



Table 9. Irrigation by Well (4,000 ha) - Net Value of Incremental Production at Full Development
(in Economic Terms)
l               l                I                I                I Gross Value of  I               I Total Production l
Cultivated Area    IYield          Production         Prices         Production     Production Cost      Costs         Net Bcnefits
(ha)          (ton/ha)          (tons)          (YR/ton)         (YR'000)         (YR/ha)          (YR'000)        (YR'000)
Ill. Irrigation by Wcll (4,000 ha close to Marib Dam: Model B)
(a) Without Project-Wheat             1,440             1.6             2,304          33,213-  76,523                    28,500           41,040           35,483
- Sesame                       720              0.7              504           48,000            24,192           30,000           21,600            2,592
- Funigreek                                     -                -                -                                -                -                 -
- Maize                                                 -                -                -                         -               -                 -
- Sorghum (grain)              600              1.0              600           27,995             16,797          18,000           10,800            5,997
- Sorghum (stalks)            (600)             2.2             1,320           4,000             5,280            ...              ...              5,280
- Alfalfa                      400             60.0           24,000           10,000           240,000          105,000           42,000          198,000
-Vegetables                    840             12.0            10,080          40,000           403,200          118,520           99,557          303,643
- Citrus                       Soo             12.0            9,600           30,000           288Q000           90,000           7200            216.000 
Total:               4,800                                                             1,053,992                         286,997          766,995         oD
Cropping intensity            120%
(b) With Project -Wheat               1,400             2.2             3,080          33,2131           102,296          33,000           46,200           56,096
- Sesame                       820              0.8              656           48,000            31,488           32,000           26,240            5,248
- Funigreek                    460              1.3              598           55,9001           33,428           42,950           19,762           13,666
-Maize                         240              2.8              672           28,3561           20,055          30,000             7,200           12,855
- Sorghum (grain)              240              1.2              288           27,995             8,063           20,000            4,800            3,263
- Sorghum (stalks)           (240)              2.6              624            4,000             2,496           ...               ...              2,496
-Alfalfa                       400             70.0           28,000            10,000           280,000         120,000           48,000          232,000
- Vegetables                   840             13.0            10,920          40,000            436,800         135,000          113,400          323,400
-Citrus                        800             12.5            10,000          30,000           300.000           95,000           76.000          224.00
Total:               5,200                                                             1,214,626                         341,602          873,024
Cropping intensity            130%
Sourtc: PMU, 1997 prices.
iIncluding value of by-products.



Table 10. Irrigation by Well at End of Marib Scheme (900 ha) - Net Value of Incremental Production at Full Development
(in Economic Terms)
Gross Value of                    Total Production
Cultivated Area      Yield          Production         Prices          Production     Production Cost       Costs          Net Benefits
(ha)           (ton/ha)          (tons)          (YR/ton)          (YR'000)         (YR/ha)          (YR'000)          (YR'000)
IV. Irrigation by Well (900 ha end of Marib Scheme: Model C)
(a) Without Project - Wheat       290               1.5                435            33,2131           14,448           24,000            6,960              7,488
- Sesame                 150               0.6                 90            48,000             4,320            28,000           4,200                120
- Funigreek
- Maize                                                     ,
- Sorghum (grain)                         -                         -                 -                         -                -                 -
- Sorghum (stalks)       -                -                                  . -
- Alfalfa                160              50.0               8,000           10,000            80,000            90,000           14,400            65,600
- Vegetables             210               10.0              2,100           40,000             84,000           98,000          20,580             63,420
- Citrus                 160               10.0              1,600           30,000            48.000            75,000           12.A00            36.000
Total:          970                                                                   230,768                            58,140           172,628
Cropping intensity       108%
(b) With Projectl-Wheat           250               2.0                500            33,2131           16,607           32,000            8,000              8,607
- Sesame                 150               0.7                105            48,000             5,040            30,000           4,500               540
- Funigreek               20               0.8                 16             55,9001             894            36,000             720                174
- Maize                   20               2.8                 56            28,3561            1,588            28,480             570              1,018
- Sorghum (grain)         30                1.1                33            27,995               924            18,000             540               384
-Sorghum (stalks)        (30)              2.4                 72             4,000               288          ..                ...                  288
- Alfalfa                150              58.0               8,700           10,000            87,000           102,000          15,300             71,700
-Vegetables              210               11.5              2,415           40,000            96,600           113,000          23,730             72,870
-Citrus                  160               11.0              1,760           30,000            52.80             83,000          13.280             39.520
Total:           990                                                                  261,741                            66,640           195,101
Cropping intensity       110%
Source: PMU, 1997 prices.
Including value of by-products.



Table It. Irrigation by Well - Downstream (1,000 ha) - Net Value of Incremental Production at Full Development
(in Economic Terms)
Gross Value of                    Total Production
Cultivated Area      Yield           Production         Prices          Production      Production Cost       Costs          Net Benefits
(ha)            (ton/ha)          (torns)         (YR/ton)         (YR'000)           (YR/ha)          (YR'000)          (YR'000)
V. Irrigation by Well (1,000 ha Downstream Irrigation: Model E)
(a) Without Project - Wheat             200                1.2              240             33,213             7,971            21,000            4,200             3,771
- Sesame                        70                0.5               35             48,000             1,680            19,000             1,330              350
- Funigreek                                                                           -                -                 -                 -                 -
- Maize                                           -                 -                 -                -
- Sorghum (grain)                70               0.8                56            27,995              1,568           16,000             1,120              448
- Sorghum (stalks)             (70)               1.8               126             4,000               504                                ...               504
- Alfalfa                       100              45.0             4,500            10,000            45,000            75,000             7,500           37,500
- Vegetables                    150               8.0             1,200            40,000            48,000            78,500            11,775           36,225           I
i-n
-Citrus                         50                8.0              400             30,000             12,.000          73,000             3,650             8.350         O
Total:                 640                                                                  116,723                             29,575            87,148
Cropping intensity             64%
(b) With Project - Wleat                 180               1.4              252             33,2131            8,370            22,500            4,050             4,320
- Sesame                         70               0.7                49            48,000             2,352            28,000             1,960              392
-Funigreek                      40                0.8               32             55,9001             1,789           32,000             1,280              509
- Maize                          -                -                          -                         -                 -                 -                 -
-Sorghum (grain)                70                1.0                70            27,995              1,960           16,500             1,155              805
- Sorghum (stalks)             (70)               2.2               154             4,000               616             ...               ...                616
- Alfalfa                       80               50.0             4,000            10,000            40,000            82,500             6,600           33,400
- Vegetables                    150               9.5             1,425            40,000            57,000            93,000            13,950           43,050
-Citrus                           0              10.0               500            30,000            15.000            75,000            3.750            011250
Total:                 640                                                                  127,087                             32,745            94,342
Cropping intensity             64%
Source: PMU, 1997 prices.
Including value of by-products



Table 12. Irrigation by Well - Outside Marib Scheme (3,800 ha) - Net Value of Incremental l'roduction at Full Development
(in Economic Terms)
Gross Value of                     Total Production
Cultivated Area       Yield          Production          Prices          Production      Production Cost        Costs          Net Benefits
(ha)            (ton/ha)          (tons)           (YR/ton)          (YR'000)           (YR/hIa)         (YR'000)          (YR'000)
VI. Irrigalion by Well (3,800 ha Outside Marib Scheme: Model F)
(a) Without Project - Wheat               950               1.0              1,045           33,213             34,708            18,000            17,100            17,608
- Sesame                         330               0.4               132            48,000              6,336            15,000             4,950              1,386
- Funigreek                      -                 -                 -                 -                 -                 -                 -
Maize                           -                 -                 -                 -                                   -                 -                 -
-Sorghum (grain)                 330               0.9               297            27,995              8,315            15,000             4,950             3,365
- Sorghum (stalks)              (330)              1.8               594             4,000              2,376              ...              ...               2,376
- Alfalfa                       480               30.0             14,400            10,000           144,000           45,000             21,600           122,400
- Vegetables                     700               6.0             4,200            40,000            168,000           58,000             40,600           127,400
- Citrus                        2                  6.0              1,500           30,000             45,000           45,000             11.250            33.750
Total:                3,040                                                                  408,735                             100,450           308,285
Cropping intensity              80%
(b) With Project -Wheat                  900                1.3             1,170            33,2131            38,859           21,000             18,900            19,959
-Sesame                         330                0.5               165            48,000              7,920            19,000             6,270             1,650
-Funigreek                      ISO                0.6                90            55,9001             5,031           30,000              4,500               531
* Maize                          -                                                                       -                 -
-Sorghum (grain)                310                1.0               310            27,995              8,679           16,000              4,960             3,719
- Sorghum (stalks)             (310)               2.2               682             4,000              2,728             ...               ...               2,728
-Alfalfa                        400               40.0             16,000            10,000           160,000           60,000             24,000           136,000
- Vegetables                    700                7.0             4,900            40,000            196,000           68,000             47,600           148,400
- Citrus                        250                7.5              1,875           30,000             56.250           56,000             14.000            42.250
Total:                3,040                                                                  475,467                             120,230           355,237
Cropping intensity              80%
Source: PMU, 1997 prices.
Including value of by-product,



Table 13. Economic Rate of Return
(YR million)
Without                                    Net Benefits 1/                                  Increm.      Invest.    Balance to be
Project    Model A    Model D    Model B    Model C    Model E    Model F        Total      Benefits    Costs 2/     discounted    ERR
Year             0           0.0      767.0       172.6        87.1      240.6     1,267.3        0           0            0         13%
Year             0           0.0      767.0       172.6        87.1      240.6     1,267.3        0.0        30.1        -30.1
Year             0           0.0      767.0       172.6        87.1      240.6     1,267.3        0.0        29.6        -29.6
Year             0           1.5      775.0       174.3        87.6      241.7     1,280.1       12.8        31.1        -18.3
Year            10           3.0      784.0       176.0        88.2      242.8     1,304.0       36.7       104.0        -67.3
Year            20           4.4      791.0       177.7        88.7      243.9     1,325.7        58.4      204.2       -145.8
Year            30           5.9      799.0       179.4        89.3      245.1     1,348.7       81.4       267.4       -186.0
Year            40           7.4      807.0       181.1        89.8      246.2     1,371.5       104.2      466.0       -361.8
Year            60           8.9      815.0       182.8        90.4      247.3     1,404.4       137.1      590.6       -453.5
Year            80          10.3      823.0       184.5        90.9      248.4     1,437.1       169.8       50.0        119.8
Year            90          11.8      831.0       186.2        91.5      249.5     1,460.0       192.7       50.0        142.7
Year           120          13.3      839.0       187.9        92.0      250.6     1,502.8      235.5        50.0        185.5
Year           140          15.0      847.0       189.6        93.1      251.7     1,536.4      269.1        50.0        219.1
Year           150          16.0      855.0       191.3        93.7      252.8     1,558.8      291.5        50.0        241.5
Year           160          17.0      863.0       193.0        94.3      253.9     1,581.2       313.9       50.0        263.9
Year           172          19.2      873.0       195.1        94.3      255.2     1,608.8      341.5        50.0        291.5
Year           172          19.2      873.0       195.1        94.3      255.2     1,068.8      341.5        50.0        291.5
Year           172          19.2      873.0       195.1        94.3      255.2     1,068.8       341.5       50.0        291.5
Year           172          19.2      873.0       195.1        94.3      255.2     1,068.8      341.5        50.0        291.5
Year           172          19.2      873.0       195.1        94.3      255.2     1,068.8      341.5        50.0        291.5
Year           172          19.2      873.0       195.1        94.3      255.2     1,068.8       341.5       50.0        291.5
Year           172          19.2      873.0       195.1        94.3      255.2     1,068.8       341.5       50.0        291.5
Year           172          19.2      873.0       195.1        94.3      255.2      1,068.8      341.5       50.0        291.5
Year           172          19.2      873.0       195.1        94.3      255.2      1,068.8      341.5       50.0        291.5
Year           172          19.2      873.0       195.1        94.3      255.2     1,068.8       341.5       50.0        291.5
Year           172          19.2      873.0       195.1        94.3      255.2     1,068.8       341.5       50.0        291.5
1/    Details are given in Tables 8 to 12.
2/     Details are given in Table 2.



%=   443'0                              43000                                    45;3:;                                  '0 00                                    4&230
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EASTERN REGION
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
O      ERADA Headquartes                              Primary Roads
*     Govemment Financed Etensi-n                    Track
Centers                                -    Dmetic Airporrt
*      Naject Financed Extensin
Black/Center                          A     Historic Sites
*      Nem Research Sti-on                           Dam and Reservoir
*      Government Farm                            f  Diversio-s
-16'30 '3                                                                                                  Urbne Area                                     Eaisting Primary Canals          16 30
o     Toys and VilIages                             Wadi Spreads
     Province Capitals                              Ptential Sur-fce Irrigation Areas
Ad Darb                                                                                                                            District Boundcries
Province Boundaries
* As Saomun
*       "                                                                                                                -. -    ntaernatianal Boondaries
Hose Al Sheene-
Al GhsnylE     I
Al KhaleW-F
1c6' 00roqishA                                                  -                                                                                                                          16W00
)3      /                                *CflnAI         * Si/'/                                                                 Safir
Ouromish                                                                            oil filddsl
:/Belsidhk                     /   MaciS   6; 
18 1/                               ~             ~           ~     ~ ~~~~~*  /   00   X as3\O                                   0      10     0f0    30       40     500
-4? \Sana' X    0   /eKILOMETERS
0                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jubah                                              SAUDI  ARABIA                     _~
1ro* 05       00              ee          re
Raho6ah               Harib.                                                           .
a                                                                   SAUDI AAAETHIOPIA
,Dh.m9r                                                                                                                            [DJIBOUTI
Con' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1-0                                              tOMALI
t m~~~~~~ U
)  4430 45W 4530 \ 5 0 M ~~~~~~~~~~~~BURA                                                        L        /cic            IA
KILOMETERS                                                           %                                                                             +  Al Sh.b..P
Marib Dal                                                                                            D
|                         /=t_  * Khtsr~~~la ift
DfmA tMarib    frm 
/4~~~~~~~~30'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
TO /R-rib                                                                 To o'a



