Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1983 YAR
         (Eastern Region Agricultural Development Project)
                              between
                        YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 24, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1983 YAR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May  24,  1989,  between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed,  on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
Page  2
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "ARA"   means   the   Agricultural   Research  Authority
established and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 32 of 1983;
     (b)  "CACB" means  the  Cooperative  and  Agricultural Credit
Bank established and operating under  the Borrower's Law No. 39 of
1982;
     (c)  "ERADA" means the  Eastern  Region Agricultural Develop-
ment Authority, a semi-autonomous government authority established
and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 23 of 1987;
     (d)  "GOAL" means the General Organization of Antiquities and
Libraries  established  and  operating  under  the  Borrower's Law
No. 51 of 1977;
     (e)  "LCCD"  means   the   Local   Councils  for  Cooperative
Development, established and  operating  under  the Borrower's Law
No. 12 of 1985;
     (f)  "MAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries of
the Borrower;
     (g)  "Marib Scheme" means the Marib Dam, diversion structures
from Wadi  Adhanah,  and  the  conveyance  and distribution system
consisting of primary, secondary and tertiary canals;
     (h)  "Project Area" means an area of about 90,000 hectares in
the Marib and Al-Jawf Governorates;
     (i)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated  April  16, 1988 and June 16, 1988
between the Borrower and the Association; and
     (j)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent   to    eleven    million    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 11,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  United  States  dollars a special account in
the Central Bank of Yemen  on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into,  and  payments out of, the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
Page  3
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be  set  from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate set as of June 30 in each
year shall be applied as  of  the  next  payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  January  15 and July 15
commencing  July  15,  1999  and  ending  January  15,  2029. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
January 15, 2009  shall  be  one  percent  (1%)  of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
ERADA (except for  Parts  D  and  E  (3)  thereof,  which shall be
carried out by  ARA)  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency and in
conformity with  appropriate  agricultural, engineering, financial
and  administrative  practices,  and  shall  provide,  promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section   3.03.   The   Borrower   shall   make  arrangements
satisfactory to  the  Association  for  the  provision  to CACB of
funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources  necessary or
appropriate to enable CACB to provide credit facilities to farmers
in  the  Project  Area  required  to  finance  on-farm  irrigation
investments, new orchards and machinery.
     Section 3.04. (a) Until the Closing Date, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  by September 30 of each  year or such later date as
               the  Association   may   agree,   furnish   to  the
               Association for its  concurrence, ERADA's and ARA's
               proposed annual work  programs for the agricultural
               services  to  be  provided  under  the  Project and
               proposed budgetary allocations for the carrying out
               of said programs during the following year; and
         (ii)  by December 31 of each  year  or such later date as
               the  Association  may  agree,  ensure  that  annual
               budgetary allocations required for the carrying out
               of the said programs  during the following year are
               made.
     (b)  After the Closing Date,  the  Borrower shall allocate to
ERADA and ARA adequate resources  to  cover the recurrent costs of
providing agricultural services in the Project Area.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall,  by  December 31, 1989 or
such  later  date  as   the  Association  shall  agree,  establish
guidelines satisfactory  to  the  Association  for  the selection,
handling and use of plant protection chemicals in the Project Area
and shall take all measures  necessary to ensure adherence to said
guidelines.
     Section 3.06. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
Page  5
agree, the Borrower shall cause  ERADA  to take, from time to time
after completion  of  construction  of  tertiary  canals, all such
measures (including, without limitation,  adjustments of the level
of water  tariffs)  as  shall  be  required  to  recover from each
tertiary collective unit: (i) the cost of tertiary canals for such
tertiary collective unit  and  (ii)  the  cost  attributed to such
tertiary collective unit of operation and maintenance of the Marib
Scheme.
     (b) On  the  basis  of   forecasts   prepared  by  ERADA  and
satisfactory to  the  Association,  (i)  the  Borrower shall cause
ERADA to review  with  the  Borrower  and  the Association, before
September 30, 1992 and  September  30,  1995 the adequacy of water
tariffs to meet the  requirements  set  forth  in paragraph (a) of
this Section in respect of  the next following three fiscal years,
and (ii) when such review  indicates  that such revenues would not
be  sufficient   to   meet   such   requirements,   determine,  in
consultation with the Association and  before the beginning of the
following fiscal year,  the  measures  to  be  taken  to meet such
requirements and the time schedule for the implementation thereof.
     (c) For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "cost of  tertiary  canals" shall mean for
               each tertiary collective unit the aggregate cost of
               design, supervision  and  construction  of tertiary
               canals built  by  ERADA  for  such collective unit,
               together  with  service   charges   at  a  rate  of
               7 percent per  annum,  collected over an eight-year
               period.
         (ii)  the  term   "cost   attributed   to  operation  and
               maintenance of  the  Marib  Scheme"  shall mean all
               expenses related  to  the  Marib  Scheme of ERADA's
               Operation  and  Maintenance  Department,  including
               provisions for replacement of the following capital
               items used  for  operation  and  maintenance of the
               Marib   Scheme:    vehicles,   equipment,   houses,
               workshops and furniture.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall  cause ERADA and ARA to
maintain  in  accordance  with   sound  accounting  practices  (i)
adequate records and  accounts  on  their operations and financial
condition and (ii) separate  Project records and accounts adequate
to reflect their operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall cause ERADA and ARA to:
          (i)  have their records,  accounts  and,  in the case of
               ERADA,   financial   statements   (balance  sheets,
               statements  of  income  and  expenses  and  related
               statements) and the  records  and  accounts for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year: (A) certified copies of
               ERADA's financial statements  for  such  year as so
               audited, and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning   such   records,   accounts,  financial
Page  6
               statements and the audit thereof as the Association
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause ERADA and ARA to:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until one  year  after  the Association has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last disbursement from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that  the  Borrower shall have entered
into a contract satisfactory to  the Association for the execution
of the works required to  ensure  the  safety of the Marib Dam and
appurtenant structures.
     Section 5.02.  The  date  180  days  after  the  date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Development and Chairman of the
Central Planning Organization  of  the  Borrower  is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Central Planning Organization
          P.O. Box 175
          Sana'a
          Yemen Arab Republic
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                CENPLAN                          2266 CENPLAN YE
                Sana'a
     For the Association:
Page  7
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
                          By /s/ Mohsin A. Alaini
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Ardy J. Stoutjesdijk
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  (a) Civil works           2,200,000         77%
     for ERADA under
     Parts A (1), A (4),
     B (1) and C (1),
     (b) Civil works           1,240,000         77%
     for ARA under
     Part D (1)
(2)  Civil works                 590,000         77%
     for tertiary
     canals under
     Part C (3)
(3)  (a) Vehicles,             2,000,000         100% of foreign
     machinery,                                  expenditures and
     equipment,                                  80% of local
     furniture and                               expenditures
     spare parts for
     ERADA
Page  8
     (b) Vehicles,               700,000         100% of foreign
     machinery,                                  expenditures and
     equipment,                                  80% of local
     furniture and                               expenditures
     spare parts for
     ARA
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  (a) Technical             2,200,000         100% of foreign
     assistance and                              expenditures and
     training for                                90% of local
     ERADA                                       expenditures
     (b) Technical               600,000         100% of foreign
     assistance and                              expenditures and
     training for                                90% of local
     ARA                                         expenditures
(5)  Refunding of                290,000         Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (b) of this
                                                 Agreement
(6)  Unallocated               1,180,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    11,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are to increase agricultural
productivity within  the  Project  Area,  to  develop agricultural
resources,  and  to   strengthen  institutional  capabilities  for
regional extension activities, agricultural research and operation
and maintenance services in the Project Area.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Development
     Strengthening the regional development  of agriculture in the
Project Area, through:
1.   Provision  to  ERADA  of  headquarters  in  Marib, furniture,
vehicles and equipment.
2.   Development  of  a   program   to   ensure  proper  planning,
monitoring and evaluation  and  effective coordination of agricul-
Page  9
tural activities in the Project Area.
3.   Establishment of an  engineering  service  for maintenance of
ERADA's facilities,  provision  of  assistance  to  LCCD's and the
design of farm irrigation works in the Project Area.
4.   Establishment of a  mother  tree  orchard  to produce nursery
trees in the Project Area.
Part B:   Agricultural Extension Services
     The strengthening of  agricultural  extension services in the
Project Area, through:
1.   Construction  of  buildings,   including  approximately  nine
extension centers and one block center and provision of furniture,
vehicles and equipment.
2.   Provision of technical assistance  to  farmers in the Project
Area.
3.   Provision of  veterinary  services  for  routine vaccination,
parasite control, animal  treatment,  and  improvement of clinical
and surgical treatment in coordination with MAF.
Part C:   Marib Scheme Development
     The strengthening of  operation  and maintenance services for
overall management  of  the  Marib  Scheme  and  development  of a
tertiary distribution system, through:
1.   Construction  of  buildings   and   provision  of  furniture,
equipment and vehicles for operation and maintenance activities.
2.   Operation  and  maintenance  of  (a)  the  Marib  Scheme, (b)
meteorological and  gauging  stations,  and  (c) ERADA's vehicles,
equipment and machinery.
3.   Design  of  the   tertiary   canal  distribution  system  for
irrigation of  approximately  4,250  hectares  and construction of
tertiary canals.
4.   Monitoring of the  hydrology  of  the  catchment  area of the
Marib Scheme, including  recharge  and  abstraction of underground
water within the Marib Scheme command area.
Part D:   Agricultural Research
     The strengthening of ARA's agricultural research capabilities
in the Project Area, through:
1.   Construction of  offices,  ancillary  research facilities and
houses for ARA's regional  headquarters  in  Marib, and in the Al-
Jawf Governorate, and  provision  to  ARA  of  furniture, farm and
laboratory equipment and vehicles.
2.   Establishment of research  units  to test agronomic practices
in accordance with regional requirements and priorities.
3.   Establishment of a regional  plant protection unit to monitor
potential aquifer contamination  due  to  fertilizer and pesticide
use.
Part E:   Technical Assistance and Training
     Provision of technical  assistance  and training for carrying
out the Project, consisting of:
1.   Provision of technical assistance in the areas of management,
agricultural development, agricultural extension, animal husbandry
and  veterinary  services,   flood   protection,  preservation  of
archeological  sites,  engineering,   irrigation  improvement  and
Page  10
operation and maintenance services.
2.   Provision of  short-term  training  in  project-related tech-
nology  and  methodology,  including  agriculture,  irrigation and
operation and maintenance for the Marib Scheme.
3.   Provision of technical assistance and training in the area of
agricultural research.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part  A.1  hereof,  goods  manufactured in Yemen Arab
Republic may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
     Contracts for works estimated  to  cost the equivalent of not
more than $400,000 per  contract  and  $3,500,000 in the aggregate
may be awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive bidding, advertised
locally,  in  accordance  with   procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
2.   Local shopping:
     Contracts  for  vehicles,  small  machinery  and  engineering
instruments estimated to  cost  the  equivalent  of  not more than
$600,000  in  the  aggregate  may  be  awarded  on  the  basis  of
comparison of  price  quotations  solicited  from  at  least three
suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent  of  $400,000  or  more and with respect to
each contract  for  goods  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$250,000 or more, the procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
Page  11
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to  said  paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished  to the
Association prior to the making  of  the  first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower  in carrying out Parts A (2),
A (3), B (2), B (3), C (2),  C  (3),  C (4), D (2), D (3) and E of
the Project, the Borrower  shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms  and  conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   (a)  The Borrower shall establish an Advisory Council for the
purposes of ensuring the proper  operation of the Marib Scheme and
the distribution of water according to an agreed  irrigation plan.
The Advisory Council  shall  consist  of  representatives from the
Marib Governorate, the Ministry of Interior, ERADA, ARA, CACB, and
farmers' representatives in the Project Area. The Advisory Council
shall appoint a Technical Committee with composition and functions
acceptable to the Association to assist in preparing the operation
plans of the Marib Scheme and  to provide technical support to the
Advisory Council.
     (b)  Prior to  releasing  water  to  each tertiary collective
unit, ERADA  shall  ensure  that:  (i)  tertiary  canals have been
constructed  in  accordance  with  ERADA's  design specifications;
(ii)  tertiary  collective  units  have  elected  an  official  to
represent the unit with ERADA; and (iii) tertiary collective units
have contracted to distribute  water  and  to operate and maintain
the tertiary canals  in  accordance  with ERADA's requirements for
the Marib Scheme.
2.   The Borrower shall complete repair  of  damage to the B Canal
located in  the  northern  area  of  the  Marib  Scheme  and shall
complete flood protection measures  for  such canal according to a
schedule satisfactory to the Association.
3.   The Borrower shall  cause  ERADA  to strengthen its Operation
and  Maintenance  Service  Department   with  duly  qualified  and
Page  12
experienced staff for the purpose  of  carrying  out Part C (2) of
the Project.  The  Operation  and  Maintenance  Service Department
shall  consist  of  three  units:   (i)  the  Headwork  Unit  with
responsibility for operation and maintenance  of the Marib dam and
its appurtenant structures, the  wadi  bed,  the A and B diversion
structures,  the  aquifer  recharge,  and  the  meteorological and
gauging stations in the catchment area  of the Marib dam; (ii) the
Irrigation Unit with responsibility  for operation and maintenance
of  the  primary  and  secondary  canals,  including  outlets  for
delivery of water to tertiary  canals; and (iii) the Workshop Unit
with  responsibility  for  operation  and  maintenance  of ERADA's
vehicles, equipment and machinery.
4.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower  shall provide to the Association
for its review  and  comments,  by  September  30  of each year, a
semiannual progress report,  and  by  March  30  of  each year, an
annual progress report, in form  and substance satisfactory to the
Association, covering the semiannual period ending June 30 and the
annual period ending December 31.
5.   The  Borrower  shall,  by   June   30,  1989,  carry  out  an
archaeological and historical sites survey  in the Project Area in
cooperation with GOAL. Following completion of such archaeological
and historical sites  survey,  the  Borrower  shall exchange views
with the Association on  the findings and recommendations thereof.
Thereafter, the Borrower shall  carry  out,  on  the basis of such
recommendations  and  exchange  of  views,  an  archaeological and
historical   sites   mitigation    plan    for   conservation   of
archaeological and historical sites.
6.   The Borrower shall provide to  the Association for its review
and comments by June 30, 1992 the findings of a mid-term review of
the Project and the recommendations based thereon. Thereafter, the
Borrower shall cause ERADA  and  ARA to implement such recommenda-
tions, taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3)  and  (4)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
Page  13
draw from the Credit  Account  and  deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories,  less the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered  into  by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02  of  the  General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
Page  14
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent  withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accor-
dance with the  relevant  provisions  of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
