                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 28178-IND




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ON A

                                          PROPOSEDLOAN

                              INTHE AMOUNT OF US$32.8MILLION

                                            AND A CREDIT

          INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR21.9 MILLION(US$32.8MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                         GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                FORA

                 LAND MANAGEMENT AND POLICY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                            March 31, 2004




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contentsmav not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.         I

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (ExchangeRateEffective February 16,2004)
                     CurrencyUnit = Rupiah
                         IDR 1,000 = US$.118
                          US$l.OO = Rp. 8,500

                             FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1--  December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



Adat            Customary Land Tenure
APL             Adaptable Program Loan
AT               Adjudication Teams
AWP              Annual Work Program
Bapedalda        Local Government Environmental Office
BAPPENAS        National Development Planning Agency
BPKP             Internal Audit Agency
BPN             National LandAdministration Agency
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA             Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR             Country Procurement Assessment Review
cso              Civil Society Organization
EKON             Coordinating Ministry o f Economic Affairs
FMR              Financial MonitoringReport
GDP              Gross Development Project
GO1              Government of Indonesia
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IDA              International Development Association
ILAP             IndonesiaLandAdministration Project
ILGRIP           Initiatives for Local Governance ReformProject
Izin Lokasi      Commercial Entreprises Licence
Kabupaten        District
Kanwil           Provinsional Regional Office
Keppress         Presidential Decree
Kotamadya        Municipality
L I S            Land InformationSystem
LMPDP            Land Management and Policy Development Project
LOC              Land Office Computerization inBPN
MOHA             Ministryof Home Affairs
MSUKP            Provincial Project ImplementationUnit
NGO              Non-government Agency
OCSPR            Operational Core Services Procurement
OED              World Bank Operation and Evaluation Department

                                                         FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
   P A D                   Project Appraisal Document
   P B B                   Annual Property Tax
   PCAR                    Procurement Capability Assessment Report
   PIU                     Project Implementaion Unit
   P M M                   Project Management Manual
   P M U                   Project Management Unit
   PSR                     Project Summary Report
    SDR                     Special Drawing Right
    SMERU                   Social Monitoring and Economic Research Unit
    SOE                     Statement o f Expenses
    TA                     Technical Assistance
    TOR                    Terms o f Reference
    U N D P                UnitedNations Development Project
    USDRP                  Urban Sector Development and Reform Project
    U U P A                Basic Agrarian Law
    UUPK                   Basic Forestry Law
    Wilayah                 Province
    WB                      World Bank




                               Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                    Country ManagerDirector:    Andrew Steer, EACIF
                     Sector ManagedDirector:    Mark D.Wilson, EASRD
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Wael Zakout, EASRD



Thisdocumenthas a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                              INDONESIA
               LANDMANAGEMENT AND POLICY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                               CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       3
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          3

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           4
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   7

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                   9
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supportedby the project                        10
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
   4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements                                        11

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           11
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies        13
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  13
   4. Indications o fborrower commitment and ownership                                    14
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         14

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            15
   2. Financial                                                                           15
   3. Technical                                                                           16
   4. Institutional                                                                       16
   5. Environmental                                                                       19
   6. Social                                                                              21
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  22

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1, Sustainability                                                                       23
   2. Critical risks                                                                       23
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       24


G. MainLoanConditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              24
   2. Other                                                                                24

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            25

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                               25



Annexes

Annex 1: Project DesignSummary                                                             26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           41
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary             42
Annex 5:   Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    47
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                      48
           (B) Financial Management andDisbursement Arrangements                           59
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       66
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                      67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              70
Annex 11:Environmental Analyis                                                             72
Annex 12: Social Analysis                                                                  79
Annex 13: Transparency and Accountability Strategy                                         88




MAP(S)
IBRD#33066

                                                    INDONESIA
                                LandManagement and Policy Development Project
                                      ProjectAppraisal Document
                                            East Asia and Pacific Region
                                                      EASRD

Date: March 31,2004                                       Team Leader: Wael Zakout
Sector ManagedDirector: Mark D.Wilson                     Sector(s):  Central government administration (50%),
Country Director: Andrew D.Steer                          Sub-national government administration (50%)
Project ID: PO64728                                       Theme@): Personaland property rights (P), Land




For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: UnitedStates Dollar
Amount (US$m): IBRDLoan: US$32.8 million; IDA Credit: SDR21.94 million (US$32.8 million)
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:        Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-SpreadLoan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                 Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                                   Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                        Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds

Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                  Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 00% 0.5%
                       -

BORROWER




Responsible agency: BPN, BAPPENAS, MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS
BPN (National Land Agency)
Address: J1. SisingamangarajaNo. 2, Jakarta, Indonesia
Contact Person: Dr.LufthiNasution, Chairman, BPN

Tel: (62-21)-722-8723/4               Fax: (62-2 1)-726-7531                  Email:
Other Agency(ies):
BAPPENAS
Address: Address: J1. Madiun No. 4, Jakarta 10310, Indonesia
Contact Person: Ir.Tatag Wiranto, Deputy Chairman, Autonomy & Regional Development
Tel: (62-21) 319 34731
             -                         Fax: (62-21) 319 34731
                                                      -                          Email:
Ministry of Home Affairs
Address: J1. Medan Merdeka Utara No.7, Jakarta 10110, Indonesia
Contact Person: Mr.Bambang Setyadi,Director of Inter Institution Reg. Autonomy, D.G. Regional Autonomy
Tel: (62-21) 345 3503
             -                        Fax: (62-21) 351 8767
                                                     -                         Email:

     g date: 12/31/2009




- 2 -

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1.1      The overall goal of the project is to contribute to government programs in achieving poverty
reduction, economic growth and promote full utilization o f land resources in a sustainable manner. The
proposed objectives o f the project are: (i)improve land tenure security and enhance the efficiency,
transparency, and improve service delivery o f       land titling and registration; and (ii)enhance local
government capacity to undertake land management functions with great efficiency and transparency.
These objectives will be achieved through: (a) development o f          land policies and related laws and
regulations to bring coherence and consistency o f laws and regulations related to administration and
management o f land affairs; (b) institutional development and support to the central and local institutions
responsible for land administration and management with a focus on improving service delivery o f land
offices through establishment and monitoring o f minimum service standards; (c) accelerating and
expanding the systematic land titling program and developing a Land Information System (LIS); and (d)
review the experience o f local government management of land affairs, provision o f training and capacity
building to all local governments in standard operating procedures, and support to selected local
governments (around 5) to be models o f how local governments can efficiently and effectively undertake
their new fimctions on landaffairs.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
2.1      The progress in achieving project's development objectives will be monitored through a set o f key
indicators which include: (i)key land policies developed and regulations are drafted; (ii)  compliance with
the minimum service standards; (iii)   number of titles issued; (iv) improvement in land tenure security and
speed in resolving land disputes; and (v) increase in land market activities and increase in registration o f
subsequent transactions. Detailedperformance indicators are included inAnnex 1.


B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 27108-IND Date of latest CAS discussion:November 25, 2003

1.1      The objectives o f the current CAS for Indonesia are: (i) improving the investment climate; and (ii)
makingservice delivery responsive to the poor. The CAS highlightsthe need for advances on the core issue
o f govemance for realizing these objectives. The proposed project will contribute to the first objective by
supporting the development o f national land policy, which will bring coherence to the various government
laws and regulations which regulate land administration and management and by issuing 2.5 million land
titles in areas o f high poverty and high economic potential.      The project will contribute to the second
objective by transforming the National Land Agency (BPN) into a transparent and efficient institution,
through the development, implementation and monitoring o f minimum service standards for land services.
The project will also develop guidelines and build the local government capacity to undertake its new
mandate in land services. Improved land tenure security would reduce land conflicts, induce more
land-related investment, and increase lending through land titles as collateral, which will all contribute to
sustaining economic recovery.      In the long term, the project will contribute to increased government
revenues from land related taxes and fees, which could be utilized for better public services to the
community.




                                                     - 3 -

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1       Indonesia i s the world's largest archipelago with over 17,000 islands (6,000 inhabited) straddling
the equator. Its area is over 1.9 million square kilometers (sq. km), of which about 1.8 million sq. km is
land. All the larger islands have a central volcanic mountainous area flanked by coastal plains. The
population is about 215 million, of which about 45 percent are employed in agriculture, and about half live
on the island of Java. More than 300 languages are spoken inIndonesia, but Bahasa Indonesia (regarded as
the purest Malay), is the official language and is now understood in all but the most remote villages.
Almost 90 percent of the population is Muslim, slightly less than 10 percent is Christian, and about 2
percent is Hinduand 1 percent Buddhist.

2.2       Although crude oil and natural gas are Indonesia's most valuable natural resources, agriculture
accounts for about 16 percent of the Gross Development Project (GDP) and employs over 40 percent o f the
labor force. Indonesia is one o f the world`s major rubber producers; other plantation crops include
sugarcane, coffee, tea, tobacco, palm oil, cinchona, cloves, cocoa, sisal, coconuts, and spices, Despite
plantation cultivation, Indonesia has a wide landholding base; the majority o f rural people are largely
self-sufficient in food. Rice is the major crop; cassava, corn, yams, soybeans, peanuts, and fruit are also
grown. Fishare abundant, both inthe ocean and ininland ponds.
2.3       In natural-resource potential, Indonesia has great timberlands. Vast rain forests containing teak,
sandalwood, ironwood, camphor, and ebony cover the mountain slopes. Palm, rattan, and bamboo abound,
and a great variety o f forest products are produced. Indonesia is a major exporter o f timber, accounting for
nearly half o f the world's tropical hardwood trade. However, the rapid deforestation o f Indonesia's
hardwoods, mainly due to its expanding population and growing timber-related industries, has caused
concern amongst international environmental groups.
2.4       The land sector inIndonesia is perceived as one o f the most inefficient sectors inthe economy. This
i s attributed to an old and fragmented legal framework for land tenure, institutional arrangements unable to
provide adequate land administration and management services, and weak local government being unable to
undertake their new mandate inlandmanagement.

Old andfragmented legalframework for land tenure

2.5       Land is classified into forest and non-forest land. Non-forest land is administered according to the
Basic Agrarian Law o f 1960 (UUPA) and is dividedinto state land and adat land.

2.6       The Basic Agrarian Law (UUPA) replaced the pre-1960 system o f land rights based on the Dutch
Civil Code and clearly stipulate that all Indonesia land laws would be based on unwritten customary (adat)
law. However, there is no clear policy for the legal framework to support it and most o f the implementing
laws, decrees, and regulations needed to define the land rights specified in the UUPA have neither been
developed or enacted. The fact is that laws, regulations, and policies which have been passed since 1967
did not even refer to the UUPA. At present, landbelonging to Adat (traditional) communities can become
registered in hak milik only if it acquires the characteristics o f tenure in individual ownership and its use is
recognized by the community.

2.7       A similar fragmented legal framework governs land tenure in forest land, which is administered by
the Ministry of Forestry under the Basic Forestry Law of 1967 (UUPK). Under UUPK, rights to the land
are tenures for resources: no land tenure can exist in this land although there are private dwellings, farms,
and even cities within "forest" land. Recent estimates suggest that only about 80 percent o f the "forest"
land actually has forest cover. Moreover, some forest land overlaps with land that previously enjoyed


                                                      - 4 -

traditional land rights (Adat). While the UUPK recognizes that these traditional land rights exist, it places
those rights ina subsidiary position.

2.8      The result has been a complex array o f incidental laws, ministerial and other decrees, and ad-hoc
regulations. This gives administrators a wide amount o f discretion in interpreting the law and in allocation
o f land rights with little basis for fair resolution o f tenure disputes. The rights o f private landholders are
still not adequately defined whereas regulations defining State land rights have proliferated.           Private
landowners are in a weak legal position in land assembly negotiations with the state institutions on behalf
o f commercial enterprises (izin lokasi) and, until 1998, communal rights o f traditional societies (hak
ulayat) were ignored by formal policy. Contrary to the requirement o f Law No. 20 of 1961 on Revocation
o f Rights on Land, formal land expropriation procedures are not used and unfair bargaining mechanisms
are used to force out landholders. Appeals to the courts are rarely successful and confidence inthe court's
impartiality in enforcing the laws and their intent has been eroded. Legal and regulatory reform is needed
but mustbe precededby an inclusive consensus on the policies andobjectives that they will support.

Institutional arrangements unable to provide adequate service

2.9      Because o f the large number o f communities spread over many islands, the organizational task o f
land titling and management is similarly challenging.           The Republic o f Indonesia is divided into 32
provinces        (Wilayah) which are subdivided into 348 Districts (Kabupaten), and 86 Municipalities (
Kotamadya). In addition, the Capital City o f Jakarta, and the Provinces o f Yogyakarta and Aceh are
special territories. Until 1999, non-forest land matters were administered by the National Land
Administration Agency (BPN), a central agency reporting directly to the President, through a network o f
Provincial Offices in every Province, Land Offices in 293 Kabupaten/Kotmadya, and some representative
offices at the sub-district level. The quality o f service from BPN left much to be desired. Since 1999,
under the Law on Regional Autonomy (Law No.2211999) and the executive order Keppres No. 3412003,
land title certification is now being carried out by BPN, whereas nine key activities such as issuance o f
location permits are with the local government, without any perceptible change inthe quality o f service.

2.10     Perhaps the biggest inadequacy lies inpace of land titling. Only about 27 million o f the nation's
estimated 80 million land parcels (30 percent) have been registered in the 40 years since land registration
began. If the current pace o f registration continues, land registration will never catch up with the total
number of parcels, since this total is estimated to be growing by more than 1 million parcels per year. The
main reasons for such low coverage are the weak institutional capacity o f the B P N Land Offices, complex
and overlapping patterns o f land tenure, absence o f documentation, long-term disputes and unclear
procedures for adjudication, large numbers o f parcels, and rapid increases inthe number o f parcels due to
fragmentation. Even where titling has been substantially completed, the number o f registrations o f
transactions subsequent to the titling are low and threaten the integrity o f the land records as does poor
records management. Titled land is estimated at three to five percent o f total land area and is the only land
which can be subject o f a private property market system.

2.11     The underdeveloped land registration system has significant negative impacts on economic
development. Purchasers and vendors o f land face a hightransaction risk because o f unclear land titles and
as a result, neither efficient nor fair land markets can develop. Land cannot generally be used as collateral
to mobilize financial resources and the development o f financial markets, especially rural financial markets,
i s constrained. Corporations cannot own land and residential land is commonly held under relatively
short-term leases (Jakarta, 25 year hak HGB) with resulting insecurity, financial hardship, and
opportunities for rent seeking. Unclear land titles, unreliable and inaccessible land records, refusal to
recognize informal but valid land tenures all lead to social conflict, particularly during the recent period o f
rapid change inIndonesia inrecent decades, and this distorts private investment.


                                                        - 5 -

Weak local government unable to undertake their new mandate

2.12     According to law 22 and Keppres 3412003, local government has the authority over nine land
service functions: These are: (a) issuance o f location permit; (b) provision o f land for public interest; (c)
cultivated landdispute settlement; (d) resolution o f compensation for landallocated for development; (e) to
determine the list o f occupants land distribution and compensating for excess land; (f) determination and
resolution o f ulayat land problems; (g) resolution o f neglected land problems; (h) land opening permit
provision; and (i)land use planning within the local government jurisdiction. Most are unsure how to
proceed ahead.

2.13     Law 22 and Keppres 3412003 has assigned these functions without transferring personnel,
buildings, and other assets to local government to undertake these functions fully and effectively.
Furthermore, the central government didnot provide adequate training to local government officials on how
to provide the services efficiently. Therefore, most o f local government are not able to undertake these
functions and, on several occasions, the lack o f clear guidelines and capacity have contributed to
mis-management o f land services by local officials.

Government Strategy

2.14     The strategy o f the Government on land affairs is to decentralize public administration, including
land administration and management, to make it responsive and accountable to local communities. On land
matters, the responsibilities between BPN and Districts have been defined by Keppres 3412003. The
responsibility for the nine functions indicated in the last paragraph is with the District Administration
(Kabupatens) while BPN is entrusted with other activities, such as, provision o f new titles, activities
related to landtransfer, developing land policies, and establishing and monitoring standards, and training.

2.15     The Government i s also in agreement that major land policy changes are needed, as reflected by
People's Assembly's call (Decree No. IW2001) for developing a comprehensive land policy reform agenda
through a consultative process and public hearings. Given that land affairs are cross-cutting, multi-sector
issues, another strategy o f the Government has been to set up a Land Affairs Coordinating Team in 2001,
which is chaired by the Coordinating Ministry o f Economic Affairs (EKON) with members from Ministry
o f Home Affairs (MOHA), National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), and BPN.                         The
Coordinating Team has a very broad agenda including giving guidance and supervising land policy reform
as well as acting as a steering committee for the formulation o f the Land Management and Policy
Development Project. Furthermore, the government has requested BAPPENAS to prepare a National Land
Policy, and BPN to prepare a revised Basic Agrarian Law by August 2004. BAPPENAS has initiated the
process o f public consultations on the draft National Land Policy. The formulation o f the National Land
Policy is expected to be finalized around March 2005, and will be an input to the preparation o f the revised
Basic Agrarian Law.

2.16     The proposed project would assist the various government institutions to implement the above
strategy, including developing clear guidelines for those functions delegated to local government, and build
the capacity o f local government to undertake these functions effectively. In addition, the project is
expected to assist in transforming BPN into a more efficient, open, transparent and effective institution,
including developing, implementing and monitoring clear service standards.




                                                      - 6 -

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1      The number o f untitled land parcels in Indonesia is estimated to be 60 million (around 70 percent
o f privately held land), compared to around 10 percent in Thailand and Malaysia and 40 percent in the
Philippines. Consequently, the main strategy is not to attempt full coverage, but to use the project as a
spring-board for multiple land titling initiatives to be financed by the government or various donors.

3.2      The spring-board nature o f the project suggests the sector issues to be addressed by the project:

Phasing. Based on the previous project's experience o f producing around 1 million parcels a year, it will
take more than 60 years to title the entire country. Consequently, to title the entire country within a 20-year
period (similar to targets established in other East Asian countries), this project, covering the island o f Java
and some urban centers outside Java, must lead to: (i)parallel projects to cover Sumatra, Bali, and
Sulawesi, the other three big islands; and (ii)  improving the efficiency and speed o f sporadic titling (titling
on demand).

Focus on transparency. BPN, the national land agency in Indonesia, is perceived as inefficient, ineffective
and non-transparent. Therefore, the goal is to transform BPN into an efficient, more open, and transparent
agency. Fully achieving this goal will take time, and may be extended well after the completion o f the
project. BPN will establish clear service standards for all o f its functions, with internal and external
monitoring including involvement o f civil society organizations to monitor these standards.Achievement o f
these standards will be part o f BPN's new Strategic Plan and the new HR policy (both to be developed
under the proposedproject), with clear rewards for those who achieve them and sanctions for those who do
not. BPN management has agreed to this principle and requested the project to provide the needed support
to achieve this goal.

Support to local government to implement their mandate effectively. It is important that local governments
are trained and have the resources to undertake their new mandate. However, the project with its limited
resources will not be able to provide support to all local governments. The project will limit its support to
key areas: (i) development o f guidelines; (ii)   training and capacity building to all local governments; and
(iii)pilotinginfive selectedlocal government units.Theguidelinesneedtobedevelopedatthenational
level through a consultative process with the participation o f key national government and local government
institutions and feedback from civil society. Training will be provided to all local governments. The pilots
will use the pilot local governments as training grounds. The piloting will provide resources to around five
local governments to develop their capacity to implement their new mandate. They will serve as a model
for other local governments. The national government can then decide to provide similar support to other
local governments through the local government budget, or through donor funding.

3.3      The proposed project will dovetail its support to local government on landmanagement with other
WB Projects supporting local government. Selection o f the Districts to be covered under Component V will
be coordinated with ILGRIP and UGRIP projects to find complimentarities between this work with the
local governments. Since the number o f Districts and Cities are limited under Component V (see paragraph
above), it is proposed that the proposed project would include local governments supported under ILGRIP
and U S D W . The project will also provide the Ministry o f Home Affairs with TA and the resources for
development o f a strategic plan for scaling up support to all local governments in the land management
function. Implementation o f the strategic plan could be supported under a future Bank project if the pilots
are successful.




                                                        - 7 -

Strategic choices in project design:

3.4      Geographical Focus and Phased Implementation. As mentioned above, the proposed project
will focus activities primarily on the island o f Java and selected urban centers outside Java. This choice is
based first on Java's concentration o f population, as well as parcels, permitting the project to maximize its
impact. Moreover, this strategy will allow close monitoring and supervision o f the development o f an
integrated package o f land titling, land office improvement, land information system development and land
dispute resolution. Once developed, the package can be replicated at more distant locations without the
accompanied risk during development.           Finally, the strategy recognizes that until policies for land
administration and management o f traditional land tenure arrangements are in place, it i s preferable not to
move land titling into rural areas outside Java to islands where such conflicting tenure arrangements are
widespread, Under the Land Management and Policy Development Project (LMPDP) the policy questions
o f such tenures will be addressed with consultations, studies and the development of more appropriate
regulatory frameworks which recognize traditional land rules and complex tenure arrangements.

3.5      The project plans recognize that the benefits of land management and land administration
improvements are also desired by stakeholders outside Java. The government has expressed a strong desire
to see project activities expanded beyond Java. The LMPDP, through working in major selected cities
outside Java, will also strengthen the local capacity inthese areas. Future projects in other areas, therefore,
could be phased in quickly at any time after these policy developments, capacity strengthening, and
appropriate piloting activities have been accomplished.

3.6      Balance of Policy, Institutional Development and Titling Operations.             The project design
emphasizes a balance o f activities which aim for achievements in policy, institutional development and
titling operations. Other projects, such as L A P I,had less focus on institutional development, particularly
on local land offices, and a greater focus on titling.      The balanced focus recognizes the large potential
benefits from policy improvements to benefit the poor while helping to foster a climate for investment and
growth. The project design also seeks a balance between the issuance o f new titles and institutional
development for improved land office hctioning.             Service provision in land offices is essential for
sustaining security o f tenure and providing assurance for secondary rights such as mortgage. Focusing on
improved service provision is also strategic for reducing the scope for corruption, which burdens
inordinately on poorer groups.

3.7      Encouraging Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) Participation. The project will support Civil
Society Organizations (CSOs) participation in several aspects o f project implementation. CSOs will be
employed in providing community information and participation in land titling activities. CSOs will also
play a significant role in land policy consultation. Although relying on CSOs has certain risks and their
scope o f activity must be carefully delimited, CSOs are expected to improve relationships with
communities.




                                                       - a -

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for adetaileddescriptionandAnnex 3 for adetailedcost breakdown):
       Component 1: Development of Land Policy and Regulatory Framework

              Subcomponent 1.1 Development of Government Capacity to Formulate Land Policy
              Subcomponent 1.2 Development of a National Land Policy
              Subcomponent 1.3 Formulation of Specific Land Policy/Regulatory Instruments

       Component 2: Institutional Development, Capacity Building, and Training

              Subcomponent 2.1 Development and Implementation of BPN Long-term Strategic Plan
              Subcomponent 2.2 Re-Engineering of LandOffices
              Subcomponent 2.3 Support to the Legal Department of BPN
              Subcomponent 2.4 Education and Training
              Subcomponent 2.5 Overall Project Management

       Component 3: Implementationof An Accelerated L a n d Titling Program

              Subcomponent 3.1 Community Awareness andParticipation
              Subcomponent 3.2 Systematic Land Titling
              Subcomponent 3.3 Streamlining Land Office Registration Processes
              Subcomponent 3.4 Development of the Private Surveying Sector

       Component 4: Development of Land Information System

              Subcomponent 4.1 Development of a National Land Information Strategy
              Subcomponent 4.2 Establishment o f L I S Infrastructure
              Subcomponent 4.3 Develop L I S Pilot Study

       Component 5. Capacity Building Support for Local Government

              Subcomponent 5.1 Assessment of Local Government's Capacity to Undertake Land
                                   Administration andManagement Functions
              Subcomponent 5.2 Training andCapacity Building
              Subcomponent 5.3 Preparation Strategic Plan for Broader Strengthening of Local
                                  Government Land Management
              Subcomponent 5.4 Support to Project Management Unit




                                               - 9 -

                                                                  Indicative                  Bank-        % of
                           Component                                costs      % of        financing       Bank-
                                                                   (US$M)     Total         (US$M)      financing
  Component 1: Land Policy Component                                   2.94        3.4          2.66          4.0
 Component 2: Institutional Development, Capacity                      9.29       10.6          7.29          11.1
 Building, and Training
 Component 3: Implementation o f an Accelerated Land                  66.62       76.0         48.07          73.1
 Titling Program
 Component 4: Development o f a Land Information System                2.86        3.3          2.37           3.6
 Comnonent 5: Canacitv Buildingfor Local Government                    5.91        6.7          5.37           8.2

                                                  Front-end fee        0.00        0.0          0.00           0.0
                                    Total FinancingRequired           87.62      100.0         65.76        100.0

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
2.1      The project will support broad policy and institutional reforms. In the policy reform area, the
support will focus on two areas. First, the project will support the government to develop and adopt a
National Land Policy which would be the basis for overall policy and regulatory changes over the medium
term (see Component 1.1, Annex 2). Second, based on the principles stipulated in National Land Policy,
the project will support government development and adoption o f specific land polices which have already
been identified as priority, including land dispute resolution, recognition and registration o f adat land
rights,   simplification o f property rights, and land distributiodland reform including creation o f an
inventory o f available state lands and extension o f lease terms (see Component 1.2, Annex 2).

2.2      The project will support major institutional reforms intwo areas. First,the project will support the
implementation o f Keppres 34/2003 on land affairs and provide support to local government to undertake
their new fbctions with efficiency and transparency. Second, the project will support the transformation
o f BPN to a more transparent and effective agency, by establishing, implementing and monitoring service
standards.

3. Benefits and target population:
3.1      By improving the land administration system, the project will stimulate the development o f more
efficient land markets, facilitating the allocation o f land to its best use. Moreover, under the proposed
project, about 2.5 million households will receive land titles. The beneficiaries o f land titles will enjoy the
benefitsassociated with land titles, including increased tenure security, access to credit and opportunities to
increase investments and productivity. Many o f the expected beneficiaries are the poor and vulnerable
who, because of time and resource constraints, have not obtained land titles through the existing system.
The emphasis on information dissemination and community participation will be strengthened under the
project to ensure that women and other vulnerable groups are fully aware o f their rights.

3.2      Improving the efficiency and transparency o f the land agency will reduce the time and cost of
registration o f land transactions and therefore will encourage the development o f a formal land market,
which protects property rights and reduce lands disputes. The project will also assist inthe development o f
policies with regard to the recognition and registration o f adat and ulayat land. This will, in the medium
term, protect the rights o f indigenous groups on their land.



                                                       -10-

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
4.1      B P N will be the executive agency to implement the project, while BAPPENAS and the Ministry o f
Home Affairs will implement specific components.           BAPPENAS will be the implementing agency for
Component Io f the project, MOHA will be the implementing agency for Component V, and BPN will be
the implementing agency for Components 11, I11and IV, and will be responsible for consolidating project
accounts and progress reports.

4.2      BAPPENAS will establish a land policy secretariat in the Department o f Spatial Planning and
Landunder the Deputy o f Regional Autonomy to manage Component Io f the project and coordinate land
policy development. The secretariat will be chaired by a BAPPENAS staff member, who will report to the
Director, and will include 4-5 professional staff.

4.3      B P N will coordinate the implementation o f Components 11, 111, and IV through LMPDP project
office, in addition to its role as the lead agency o f the project. The Director o f LMPDP will act as the
project director and the LMPDP Management Unit (PMU) in B P N will coordinate implementation o f all
project activities. B P N will establish Provincial Project ImplementationUnits (MSUK) to support project
implementation in each o f the project provinces and be responsible for: (i)        project administration; (ii)
planning, monitoring, and evaluation, (iii)  procurement; (iv) finance and verification, (v) technical quality
control. Furthermore, Project Implementation Units (MSUK) will be established in each o f the project
Kabupaten, which will be responsible for organizing and implementing the systematic land titling
component.

4.4      MOHA will coordinate the implementation of Component V of the project. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established under the Director o f Institution for Decentralization under
the Director General o fthe Directorate of Regional Autonomy.

4.5      The LMPDP Steering Committee will serve as a project steering committee to provide overall
guidance during implementation, and ensure coordination among the various agencies implementing various
parts o f the project. The committee will also serve as a steering committee for land policy development.
The existing Technical Team will support the Steering Committee in overseeing land policy development
and ensure good coordination among the implementing agencies.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection:

LendingInstrument
1.1      An APL could be an alternative approach to address the uncertainties o f a reform program, both
with regard to getting a consensus among key players and to the ability o f the government to carry it out.
However, there is a long list o f very sensitive issues and the government's ability to reach consensus on
these issues are not certain at the moment. Therefore, triggers for the subsequent phases o f A P L cannot be
formulated easily. Furthermore, the proposed project i s expected to investigate the viability o f full cost
recovery o f landtitling issuance and, ifthis i s found viable, then external funding for the continuation o f the
program may not be needed. For these reasons, an SIL lending instrument is more appropriate for the
proposed project.




                                                      - 11 -

Titling off Java

1.2      Since land titling will contribute to poverty reduction, the project design considered the extension
o f the systematic land titling to islands other than Java where the poverty is even greater. This alternative
was rejected due to the lack o f govemment's clear policies on the recognition and registration o f
adat/ulayat land. Rural areas outside Java are mostly under customary land tenure, and issuance o f
individual landtitles in these areas may cause land conflicts and may not be acceptable to the communities.
Instead the project would: (i)  assist the government to develop policies on the recognition and registration
of adat/ulayat land; and (ii)  include selected urban centers outside Java to be covered by systematic land
titling.

Supporting a larger Number of Local Governments under Component V

1.3      Since most of local government does not have the capacity nor the resources to undertake their new
mandate, one option was considered to support a large number o f local governments under Component V.
This option was rejected for the following reasons: (i) project is already complex, and adding a large
                                                           the
number o f districts under Component V would add multiple complexities to the project and may affect the
overall project outcome; (ii)  there is a need for testing and piloting before extending the support to a large
number o f local governments; and (iii)    Component V includes two sub-components which will benefit all
local governments, namely training and the development of clear standard operating procedures and
guidelines.

Supporting Land Reform

1.4      everal CSOs have requested that the Bank to support land reform. While land reform (land
distribution and re-distribution) will contribute significantly to poverty reduction, the task team opted
against direct support to land reform at this point. LandReform is often very political, and currently, there
i s no national consensus on land reform. As a result, the project would support policy studies instead to
assess the viability and scope o f land reform, and try to bring a national consensus on the issue. If a
national consensus is reached, and the government adopts an approach which is acceptable to civil society
and CSOs, then the Bank could consider providing funds under a separate lending mechanism to pilot the
approved scheme.




                                                      - 12-

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).

                                                                                      Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                              Project                        (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                 (Bank-finance projects only)
                                                                                 Implementation   Development
 Bank-financed                                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)

 Land titling and administration            Indonesia Land Administration              S                S
                                            Project I(Ln. 3792-IND)
 Distribution o f land rights to the land   Thailand Land Reform Areas                U                 U
 poor                                       Project (Ln.2198-TH)
 Land Titling and Administration            Thailand First Land Titling               HS               HS
                                            Project (LTPI) (Ln.2440-TH)
 Land Titling and Administration            Thailand LTP 11(Ln.3254-TH:                S                S
 Land Titling and Administration            Thailand LTP I11(Ln.                       S                S
                                            3797-TH)
 Land Titling and Administration            (Laos Land Titling Project)                S                S
 Land Titling and Administration            Cambodia: Land Management                  S                S
                                            and Administration Project
 Land Titling and Administration            Philippines: Land                          S                S
                                            Administation and Managemenl
                                            Project
 Other development agencies
 P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), t (Highly Unsatis ICtOry)

3. Lessons learned and reflectedin the project design:
3.1       The World Bank has implemented many land reform and titling projects since the formulation o f its
"Land Reform Policy Paper" in 1975. Three major lessons can be drawn from the Bank's experience.
First, land policy should be viewed as an integral element of a broader policy dialogue rather than as a
string o f narrowly oriented technical interventions. Experience shows that a lack o f consensus on the
broader subject o f land policy has often compromised the effect on development o f specific interventions,
for example, land titling. Incountries where land issues have inthe past resulted in civil strife, revolution,
and war, reaching a consensus requires time and involves all the relevant sectors o f civil society. Second,
land titling should be area-based, that is, it should cover an entire area at once (systematic registration), and
fit within a broader strategy of rural development. Otherwise, imperfections in other factor markets may
undermine or even eliminate the advantages from possession o f title. Third, there is a rediscovery o f the
value o f traditional land rights arrangements. In some areas, compared to freehold titles, traditional tenure
arrangements may be more cost-effective in increasing tenure security and even provide a (limited) basis
for land transactions. The proposed project takes inta account the above lesson by emphasizing broader
policy dialogue, systematic registration, and traditional (adat/ulayat) land issues.

Lessons Learned from the Thailand Land Titling Projects

3.2       Based on a intemal Bank's review and an OED audit report, the following factors contributed to
the success of the Thailand land titling program: (i) high level government commitment to the land
                                                        strong



                                                      - 13-

titling program; (ii)graduated increase incost recovery for land titlinghegistration services; (iii)
                     a                                                                                specially
formed and trained systematic adjudication teams which involved the communities concemed; and (iv) use
o f efficient new technologies. These success factors are fully reflected inthe design o f the proposed project.


Lessons Learnedfrom LAP I

3.3       Formulate land policies now. While part C o f the project produced excellent policy analysis
reports, the overall outcome was not as successful. None o f the policy recommendations were adopted. This
was due to the fact that the Suharto government was not open to policy reform to bring transparency and
accountability to the land sector. Duringthe preparation o f the project, it was evident that there is now a
window o f opportunity for major policy formulation. Because o f this, the land policy component was
designed to deliver key policy formulations, rather than mere policy studies.

3.4       Transform BPN to deliver longer-term results. While the systematic land titling component was
successful in issuing around two million land titles, the institutional development component was less than
successful. There were no major changes in the functions and operations o f land offices, resultingin no
change in efficiency and accountability o f these offices. Because o f this, the thrust in the proposed project
is to transform B P N into an efficient and transparent land agency. Clearly, this is not expected to be a rapid
process, but the project would develop a strategic plan and a human resources plan to be the basis for this
change. This direction was endorsed by BPN leadership.

3.5       Establish land dispute resolution mechanisms. Another lesson learned from the L A P Iis that
grievance resolution mechanisms must be established to settle land disputes according to the rule o f law.
The large backlog o f unsettled land disputes, the settlement o f so many in favor o f elites, and the obscurity
o f the process, bring into question the value o f the rights being registered. The design o f the proposed
project also reflects these lessons by emphasizing the establishment o f grievance resolution facilities and
expanding the role o f the Ombudsman inreviewing grievances independently.

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
4.1       The government has shown strong commitment to address issues o f land administration and
management. The commitment has been demonstrated in various ways. First, the 25-year program for
titling all non-forest land was initiated by the Government in early 1990s. Second, during the economic
crisis, when public expenditure in all sectors was cut to stabilize the economy, Government continued to
provide the resources needed by the program. Third, the Government has established an inter-ministerial
Coordinating Team for Land Affairs, which includes MOHA, EKON, BAPPENAS, and BPN, to guide and
supervise the project preparation work. Fourth, recognizing the urgency and importance o f having an
integrated land policy framework, the Coordinating Team has already established a committee to develop
the NationalLandPolicy through a nation-wide consultative process.

5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
5.1       The.value o f the Bank's involvement is reflected in three aspects. First, the World Bank has
supported many land administration and management projects throughout the world, including in four
countries within the East Asia and Pacific Region (Lao People's Democratic Republic, Philippines,
Thailand, and Cambodia). Through these projects, the Bank has developed considerable expertise which
enables it to share experience from other countries and provide impartial technical, institutional, and policy
advice to our client countries.     Second, through L A P I,the Bank and Government have developed good
working relationships, which makes it possible to maintain the dialogue needed to resolve the difficult


                                                     - 14-

issues that inevitably will arise during the implementation o f the project. Third, the World Bank has
developed an effective relationship with other donors in Indonesia, and some o f them are actively involved
in land issues or issues closely related to land, including governance, environment, poverty reduction,
resettlement, and community mapping. The World Bank's involvement would also bring greater coherence
to the donors' program.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$114.2 million; ERR = 33 % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)


1.1      Based on the household- and plot-level data collected by Social Monitoring and Economic
Research Unit (SMERU) Research Institute, we used a standard econometric methodology (linear
regression) to calculate the economic rate o f return. Land prices are used as a proxy for economic value o f
land to calculate ERR under the assumption that all titling benefits will eventually be reflected by changes
o f land price; that is, the changes o f land price capture the net effect o f all the benefits o f land titling.
Increasingly active land markets inJava, as reflected by a gradual increasexf land turnover rate and by the
observations from our field visits, give us additional confidence on using land price as a proxy for
economic benefits.

1.2      There are many factors affect the land prices besidesthe land title; therefore, the factors other than
the land title must be controlled in order to have a meaningful analysis. In our analysis, we controlled
family characteristics and plot characteristics. We also controlled the regional impacts by using provincial
dummy variables (7 provinces). To analyze the different impacts of land titling in urban and rural areas,
we also conduct sub-group analysis in addition to pooling the whole sample (groups from both project and
non-project area) together. The total plot sample number is 977.

1.3      The overall economic rate o f retum o f holding a land title is about 33 percent, and the ERR is
higher in rural areas (47 percent) than that in urban areas (32 percent). The coefficient o f the title is
statistically significant at 99 percent confidence level and the result is thus robust across different
specifications. The result means that the value o f a plot with a title will be 33 percent higher than that o f a
plot without a title, holding other factors constant (Annex 4 presents a detailed economic analysis).

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 114.2 million; FRR = 17 % (see Annex 4)

2.1      The government generated incremental revenues @uncial benefits) mainly from three sources.
The first is the registration fee, which is around US$3.0 per parcel.         The second is the tax on right
acquisition (BPHTB) which is 5 percent o f land value. The first Rp.30,000,000 i s exempted from tax up
to 2001. This exemption figure will be increased by Rp.5 million every subsequent 5 years. The third
sources is the payment o f income tax on transfer o f rights on landhuilding (5 percent sellers tax,
Government Regulation No. 48/1994).

2.2      Thefinancial costs to the government are the all project costs and the loan interest costs (about 4
percent) and the Government's future management costs associated with each title issued by the project (2
percent o f total project cost).


                                                      -15-

All calculations are based on the estimated project costs of LMPDP and data o f actual benefits associated
with the L A P I(1994-2001). For the sake o f simplicity, the actual benefits (revenues) are extrapolated
over a 35 year period and no further assumptions are made regarding any expected changes or
enhancements to these current actual benefits. The capital discount factor is 0.1, Derivative registrations
(turnover rate) are 1 percent for year 2-6, 3 percent for year 7-20, and 5 percent for year 21-35. Under
these assumptions, the financial rate o f retum (FRR) is 17 percent and the N P V is US$114.2 million.

Fiscal Impact:
2.3      The fiscal impact o f the proposed project should be neutral inthe short-run given that only about a
quarter o f the total project cost will be financed by the Government. Inthe long-run, it is expected that the
fiscal impact o f the proposed project will be very positive as shown by the relatively highFRR.


3. Technical:

3.1      The choice o f technology for this project was selected based on the experience o f LAP Iand the
experiences o f other similar projects. The surveying technology to be usedinthe systematic land titling is
that which produces the appropriate level o f accuracy at the lowest cost. The difference in this project
from those inmost East Asia land projects is that surveyingfor systematic land titling would be done solely
by private surveyors. Competition among private surveyors will determine the kind o f technology to be
used to achieve the accuracy requirements.

3.2      On the development of Land Information System, the project would support a strategy for the
development of a land information system and focus on data sharing amongst various government agencies.
The project would also support piloting a land information system in one district. Expansion of the pilot
will be done only after completing a thorough evaluation o f the pilot.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:


4.1.1    Presidential Decree (Keppres) No. 34 (May 21, 2003) confirmed the transfer o f government's
authority on nine activities to local governments. These nine activities are: (i)    location permit issuance; (ii)
taking o f land inthe public interest; (iii) cultivated land dispute settlement; (iv) compensation determination
for land taken for development; (v) to determine o f the list o f owners for landdistribution and compensation
for land held in excess o f standards; (vii) determination and resolution o f tllayat land problems; (viii)
resolution o f un-utilized land problems; (ix) land opening permit provision; and (xi) land use planning in
local government jurisdictions. The residual functions (including land registration, titling, surveying and
mapping) are deliveredby B P N through provincial, district and local landoffices.

4.1.2    Under Component 2, the project is designed to assist B P N to develop a long-term Strategic Plan
and Human Resources Management Plan to transform the agency into a more transparent, efficient,
accountable and open agency, and taking into account the more focused mandate on land registration and
titling. Component 5 will assist local government to undertake their mandate efficiently and effectively
through development o f guidelines, training, and piloting in selected local governments. Since the number
o f local governments is large, it is not realistic to support all o f them under this project. Therefore, the
government would make a decision once the assessment and piloting are complete on how the government


                                                        -16-

 will support the remaining local governments. This support will be financed by a follow up project. Inorder
 to transform B P N into a transparent and an accountable agency, the project will establish clear service
 standards for delivery o f BPN land office functions. These standards will be uniform across all land
 offices. Furthermore, the project will support internal and an independent external monitoring o f these
 service standards. It is recognized that this change will require change o f culture o f B P N management and
 staff, changes in operational and technical processes, and human resources incentive structure, and may
 take untilwell after the completion o f the project to show clear results o f a more efficient, accountable, and
 transparent agency. The project will, however, build the foundation for BPN to achieve this goal in the
 medium to long term.

 4.1.3     The project will be implemented by three agencies (BAPPENAS, MOHA, and BPN). BPN will
 take the lead on Component 11, I11 and IV, while BAPPENAS will take the lead on Component I,and
 MOHA will take the lead on Component V. BPN will be the executive agency and will be responsible for
 consolidating project accounts and progress reports. The fact that three agencies involved in
 implementation require strong leadership by the LMPDP Coordinating Committee. It is also important that
 there will be close coordination between BAPPENAS and BPN in land policy formulation and legal
 drafting.
 4.2 Project management:


 4.2.1     Each o f the three implementing agencies will establish a Project Implementation Unit to manage
 project implementation. BPN will act as the Executive Agency to implement the project. BPN is familiar
 with managing Bank-financed projects as they were the responsible agency for ILAP project. BAPPENAS
 also familiar with World Bank-financed projects. The MOHA team is not familiar with Bank processes,
 and therefore, BPN Project Implementation Unit will provide the support to MOHA PIU in the first few
 years o f project implementation. Furthermore, the government has prepared a detailed project management
 manual, including a financial management manual and a procurement manual to guide the three PIUs in
 managing the project.
 4.3 Procurement issues:


 4.3.1     Major procurement in the project will be for contract services for cadastral surveys and mapping
 which will be carried out inthe provinces and data conversion for systematic land registration; international
 and national consultants for technical assistance and studies; civil works for construction and rehabilitation
 o f offices; computers, office and mapping equipment; and records management software. BPN as the lead
 agency already has experience inBank procurement procedures through LAP-I          . However,   because some o f
'the trained staff have been transferred to other sectionshnits, the proposed project i s more complex with
 revisions to Bank's procurement guidelines, the procurement fimction inBPN will need to be upgraded by
 training BPN procurement staff. Procurement will be carried out by PIUs at other central government
 agencies (BAPPENAS and MOHA), provincial (Kanwil BPN) and kabupaten Land Offices. These
 provincial and kabupaten entities ingeneral have little or no experience with Bank procurement procedures.
 Furthermore, to ensure that procurement at all levels will be done in accordance with the Bank's guidelines,
 the following actions would be taken: (i)   assistance and training will be provided to the PIUs that are not
 fully conversant with Bank procedures; and (ii)standard bidding documents will be used for all
 Bank-financed procurement. The key issues identified in Indonesia CPAR (see Annex 6A) that are likely to
 have an impact on procurement under the project will be addressed during the preparation o f the Project
 Procurement Manual (as a part o f the Project Management Manual). The PIP or AWPs will provide a
 framework and procurement plan o f the project activities. The capacity o f the implementing agencies to
 implement procurement has been assessed, taking into account the requirement specified in Operational


                                                      - 17-

Core Services Procurement's (OCSPR) instruction dated July 15, 2002. Based on the assessments, an
action plan was developed to buildthe capacity o f the PIUs through training and supervision during project
implementation. Results o f the procurement capacity assessment and the action plans are summarized in
Annex 6A.
4.4 Financial management issues:


4.4.1    InJuly andAugust 2003, a financial management assessment of the risks inherent inthe choice of
BPN as the primary project implementing entity, as well as specific risks arising from the proposed project
designand implementation arrangements was conducted. Inaddition, consideration was given to the overall
control environment in the country, as determined by the Country Financial Accountability Assessment
Report, a diagnostic study undertaken by the Bank inyear 2001. Results o f the assessment are summarized
inAnnex 6 (B).

4.4.2    The financial management assessment concluded that the overall financial management risks are
substantial. The wide geographic spread o f the project imposes substantial risks on financial accounting
and reporting. Although BPN, which is designated as the lead agency, has prior experience in managing
donor financed projects, audit feedback in L A P Ihas indicated that intemal controls, especially payment
validation procedures, are an area that need strengthening. Outside the central office, at the provincial and
kubuputen level where a large part o f project resources will be spent, financial management capacity is
generally weak and variable. All these factors could weaken financial accountability o f expenditures under
this project, and measures have accordingly been proposed to mitigate these risks.

4.4.3    t is proposed that financial accounting for project expenditure will be consolidated at 12 selected
Provincial BPN offices, where accounting and project implementation information will be collected from
about 76 Land Offices o f BPN. Responsibility for financial controls and accountability will however be
decentralized to the Land Offices where project staff will be located. Current Government accounting
systems do not generate the information that will be required for monitoring project expenditure, for
instance, by expenditure categories as well as by program components. Quarterly Financial Management
Reports and annual financial statements will therefore be generated by stand-alone computer systems and in
simplifiedformats prescribedby the Bank and inline with Bankguidelines.These would also be reconciled
quarterly with intemal Government reporting to ensure consistency.

4.4.4    It is proposed that financial management consultants will be appointed to assist BPNto design and
install a computerized financial accounting system at all participating BPN provincial offices. Such a
system would meet all financial reporting requirements o f the project as specified in the Financial
Management Manual, and will be utilized to the extent possible given the existing accounting systems and
resources in use at BPN Head Office and their offices. The consultants will also be tasked with training
BPN staff in the operation o f the project financial management system. Detailed procedures for financial
management, including strengthened financial controls will be included in the Project Financial
Management Manual which will be finalized before the project becomes effective.

4.4.5    The national internal audit agency (BPKP) will be accepted as auditors for this project. Terms o f
Reference for these audits will be agreed before negotiations and will be based on a single audit opinion o f
project financial statements, Statements o f Expenditure and Special Accounts. It is intended that all project
audit reports will be publicly disclosed, as a measure to enhance transparency and accountability.




                                                    -18-

4.4.6    The following disbursementprocedures are proposed:

e        About 85 percent o f the project expenditure is expected to be below prior review thresholds, and
         will initially be disbursed based on Statements o f Expenditure (SOE) procedures. Expenditures in
         excess o f this amount for contracts will be paid under Summary Sheet procedures. N o
         disbursements through Special Commitments or Direct Payments are anticipated. SOE based
         disbursements will be converted to quarterly replenishments supported by Financial Monitoring
         Reports (FMRs) after a satisfactory and regular generation o f such reports during implementation.

e        Payments to contractors will be authorized from central treasury offices based on Central
         Government Budgets documents under normal Government documentary procedures.

4.4.7    A Special Account will be opened inBank Indonesia with an authorized allocation of US$6 million
with an initial allocation o f US$2 million. The full allocation o f the Special Account will be triggered once
disbursement have reached US$10 million.           It is proposed that the Withdrawal Applications for
reimbursements into this account will be prepared by BPN as the Lead Project Management Unit and
authorized by Ministryo f Finance.


5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
5.2      Environmental and social assessments have been undertaken as part o f the project's preparatory
activities. This shows that the project is not expected to have large scale, or irreversible adverse
environmental impacts. The project i s therefore classified as environmental assessment Category B.

5.3      Other than rehabilitation and construction o f land office buildings, the project will not support civil
works, land conversion, resource extraction, industrial production or any activity that could potentially
damage the environment. Contracts for civil works under the project will be subject to screening for
environmental impacts by the local environmental entities (bupelda), which are responsible for this activity.
All contracts will include measures acceptable to the bapeldu to minimize or mitigate environmental
damage. The project will not support land acquisition or associated involuntary resettlement. Policy
formulation and institutional development (about 25 percent the total project cost) are environmental
assessment Category C. They are not subject to special environmental review requirements.

5.4      Among other goals, the project seeks to improve natural resources management by supporting the
development o f policies, laws, and regulations to clarify rights o f people to land, by enhancing transparency
in land administration and management, and by strengthening security of tenure through the issuance of
titles to households with legitimate legal claims to the land. Establishing clear property rights to land and
natural resources creates incentives for owners to manage the resources for their long-term benefit. This
encourages investment in soil conservation, watershed protection, reforestation, and sustainable use o f wild
animals and plants. B y formalizing rights to residential plots, the project encourages investment in
activities and infrastructure that improve environmental conditions where people live and work, such as
solid waste management, water supply systems, and sanitation facilities. Indeeda social assessment o f the
earlier Indonesia Land Administration Project shows that peri-urban dwellers investedsubstantially intheir
homes and neighborhoods after receiving titles. Inthis way the project is expected to directly contribute to
improved environmental management inIndonesia.



                                                      -19-

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
5.2.1   The project has been designed to promote sound environmental management and to mitigate
potentially negative affects arising directly from project activities. To promote sound environmental
management, the project includes support for land policies that clearly define the rules for delimiting
boundaries between the public and private domains, and creation o f capacity for land management. To
minimize negative impacts on the environment several measures are important. First, titles will not be
issued in areas designated as forest areas, protected areas, the coastal zone, and riverbanks.          Second,
policies and regulations formulated under the project will include the input o f the Ministries o f Environment
and Forestry and from nongovernmental organizations with an interest in sound environmental management
and in environmental protection. For example, the policy on formally recognizing adat land in areas now
classified as forest or state land must be based on a good analysis o f the environmental implications o f
changing the classification o f land and be formulated with the input o f environmental constituencies in
addition to that o f other interests.        Third, guidelines have been developed to ensure that project
implementers comply with the World Bank environmental and social safeguards (see Annexes 11 and 12
for details).    Finally, the project will encourage local governments to include representatives o f
environmental groups inthe stakeholder forums regarding matters such as the issuance o f location permits,
opening o f new lands, land distribution, and land use planning. These functions o f local government all
have implications for the environment, and decisions should not be made without understanding clearly
those implications.

5.2.2    The measures are adequate to promote sound environmental management. The environmental
assessment and the EMP appear inAnnex 11.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: July 2003

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?
5.4.1    Stakeholders have been consulted regularly throughout the design phase o f the project, and their
input was reflected in the draft EA. A workshop with all stakeholders discussed the draft EA and EMP.
Comments from the discussions were incorporated in the final draft. The World Bank preparation team
independently met with CSOs during the preparation missions to leam first hand the concems o f the
various stakeholders.     These included Legal Aid and the Foundation to Strengthen and Study the
 Community, both o f whom are involved with helping traditional communities gain formal recognition of
their land rights. Other groups consulted include the Association o f Adat (an apex organization
representing the interests o f traditional communities) and the Association o f Bupatis (representing mayors).
While the groups have diverse interests, they generally expresssupport for the project.
 5.5 What mechanisms have beenestablished to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
 environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
 5.5.1   The project will finance a socio-economic and environmental impact study to assess the social,
 economic and environmental impact o f the project. Supervision missions and the midterm review will note
 any issues and if necessary take steps to ensure that the project complies with the Bank's environmental
 safeguards. Bank specialists located inthe Jakarta office will consult regularly with CSOs and be able to
 deal with issues as they arise.




                                                         - 20 -

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

6.2      A social assessment o f the systematic land titling program of the Land Administration Project was
carried out 1999 at the midterm o f the project. This was followed in2002 with an impact evaluation o f the
program. Altogether, about 2,200 people in 23 o f the 49 districts and cities covered under the program
participated in focus group discussions, interviews, or surveys regarding the program and land matters in
general. The full social assessment and impact evaluation are available inproject files. These showed first
that landregistration has increased the security o f tenure for all, and the program has benefited the poor the
most. The program did not discriminate on the basis o f income or social status, providing title to all inthe
program area who were able to prove their claims. However, the poor benefit most by being able to obtain
security o f tenure inexpensively and quickly, because they cannot afford the costs and time o f obtaining
title through the sporadic titling program. Second, the positive impacts o f the project were strongest inthe
cases where state land was converted to private land. The benefits o f moving households from completely
insecure land tenure to completely secure land tenure were substantial. New investment in land, housing,
and public water and sewerage systems and other public amenities was higher in such communities than in
those occupying land already recognized as private. Third, the position o f women with regard to land that
they have inherited was strengthened because the land was titled in the woman's name, but weakened with
respect to land purchased after marriage because most such land was titled in the name o f the husband
alone. Fourth, access to credit, investment in land and businesses, and land values increased in the project
areas, which helped in stimulating the development of land markets and economic growth. Overall the
project was found to have significant positive social impacts and no significant adverse social impacts.

6.3      The project's primary social development outcome is to increase land tenure security, especially o f
the poor and vulnerable and of women. A second social development outcome is to reduce conflict over
land by supporting the development o f land policies that addresses the issues o f adat land, land reform and
distribution, and alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. The social analysis is presented inAnnex 12.
6.2 Participatory Approach: H o w are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
6.2.1    Key stakeholders will continue to be consulted or involved in most aspects o f project
implementation. The project will finance public consultations with stakeholders in developing national land
policies. It will also finance the contracting o f CSOs to facilitate community participationin the systematic
titling program. They will carry out activities such as raising awareness of the program, conducting village
tenure profiles and informing communities o f the importance o f registering subsequent transactions o f titled
land and explaining how to do so. The project will provide the selected CSOs with on the job training in
participatory techniques to ensure that they reach both women and men, members o f marginalized groups,
and the poor.


6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

6.3.1     CSOs have been consulted regularly throughout the design phase o f the project. The preparation
team met with CSOs during the missions to learn first handthe concerns o f the various stakeholders. These
included Legal Aid and the Foundation to Strengthen and Study the Community, both o f which are involved
with helping traditional communities gain formal recognition of their land rights. Other groups consulted
include the Association o f Adat (an apex organization representing the interests o f traditional communities)
and the Association o f Bupatis (representing mayors).        While the groups have diverse interests, they


                                                      -21 -

generally express support for the project. Consultations with CSOs will be held regularly and on an ad-hoc
basis throughout project implementation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

6.4.1    The project contains several measures to ensure that it achieves its social development objectives.
To ensure that the project reaches the poor: (i)   poverty indicators will be included among the criteria for
selection o f areas to be covered under the systematic land titling program; (ii)   adjudication teams will be
trained in techniques designed specifically to reach the poor; and (iii)fee structure for titling that exempts
                                                                         a
the poor from fees for systematic titling will be studies. To ensure that national land policies and local
decisions regarding land reflect the views o f all stakeholders, the project will encourage the government to
include CSOs representing the interests o f poor and vulnerable groups, women, and udut communities in
extensive consultations. To ensure that no people are harmed by the project, it will not title any land with
unclear status. To assist people who are currently holding little land or who have weak claims to land they
occupy, the project will finance the development o f policy on land reform.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?

6.5.1    The project will finance a socio-economic and environmental impact assessment to measure the
social, economic and environmental impact o f the project. The Study will include a base line survey to be
completed in year 1 o f the project and a follow up survey to be completed in year 5 o f the project.
Supervision missions and the midterm review will focus in particular on the project's social issues. Bank
specialists located in the Jakarta office will consult regularly with NGOs and be able to deal with issues as
they arise.

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
7.2.1    Bank supervision missions will thoroughly review compliance and if needed propose actions to
improve performance. Bank specialists located in the Jakarta office will be available to address any issues
as they arise.




                                                     - 22 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
1.1      A number of actions will be taken to ensure project sustainability. To ensure the benefits of the
first land titling project are sustained through the registration o f subsequent transactions, the project will:
(i) publicinformationcampaignstoexplaintheimportanceofformallandregistration;(ii)
    support                                                                                             improve
the service delivery of land offices to eliminate the red tapes and informal fees; and (iii)    include a policy
study on land taxes and fee structure to assess the current fee structure on land registration. To ensure the
continuation o f the land titling program after Bank funding is over, a study will be undertaken to investigate
the viability o f establishing a fund, to be financed by the collected fees on first titling land registration;
these funds could be usedafter the Bank loan i s closed to continue the land titling program.

2. CriticalRisks(reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found in the fourth column o f Annex 1):
                      Risk                        Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure
 Vom Outputs to Objective
 I,Domestic macro-economic                             S           Outsidethe control of the project. Project
     environment becomes unfavorable.                              activities will be scaled down incase there is a
                                                                   down turn inthe economy and the government
                                                                   could not provide the neededcounterpart funds.
 2. Political stability does not continue.             S           Outside the control o f the project. Project
                                                                    activities will be scaled down incase o f
                                                                   non-favorable political situation.
 3. Commitment o f BPN for openness                    S           Project expansion will be limitedand activities
     and change weakens.                                            could be scaled down if B P Nmanagement's
                                                                    commitment is weak. Suspension o f the loan
                                                                    may be considered if BPN is clearly not
                                                                    proceeding with reforms.
 1.Commitment oflocalgovernments for                   N            Local government to be supported under
     openness and reform weakens.                                   component 5 will follow the proposed
                                                                    Bank-financed local government initiative
                                                                    projects (formerly KGRIP and UGRIP). The
                                                                    transparency requirementso f these projects
                                                                    would be adopted.
 5. Inherent risks arising from                        S            Continue country dialogue to expedite public
      weaknesses incountry control                                  financial management reforms and introduce
      environment and financial                                     project specific measures such as enhanced
      accountability systems.                                       financial reporting and additional payment
                                                                    validation procedures.
 5. The regulatory framework (laws or                  M            This will be assessed indue course.
     regulations) have changed inaway
     which affects project implementation.
 From Componentsto Outputs
 7. The Steering Committee i s not                     M            The project includes support to the LMPDP
     effective incoordinating project                               Coordinating Team to ensure it performs
     implementation among the three                                 coordination role effectively. Project activities
     implementing agencies.                                         will be scaled down ifthis happen.
 5. Counterpart funds are not available.               M            Project activities will be scaled down.
 3. Serious opposition from CSOs and                   M            The project has developed a participation plan
                                ~




                                                     - 23 -

I                                                                                    _ _
                                                                  ll_-_l_                  -
    other stakeholders.                                           to ensure that CSOs are engagedin project
                                                                  implementation andmonitoring. Continue
                                                                  dialogue with CSOs and other stakeholders
                                                                  during implementation.

 10. BPN fails to implement the                         S         Continue engagement with BPN management.
      transparency and accountability                             Project activities would be scaled down or
      strategy.                                                   disbursement may be suspended if the it i s clear
                                                                  that BPN is not committed to reform.
 11. Registration o f subsequent                       M          The project will include a set o f interventions to
      land transaction does not increase.                         understand the reasons for the low rate o f
                                                                  subsequent registration. Ifafter government
                                                                  actions, this rate continues to be on the low end,
                                                                  a more significant analysis will be undertaken.
 12. Financialmanagement risks arising                  S         Community disclosure and oversight
      from weak internal control systems                          mechanisms and more intensive payment
      and payment validation procedures                           validation procedures.
 Overall Risk Rating                                    S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri! , M (Modest Risk), Negligible or Low Risk)


3. Possible ControversialAspects:
None

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition

0    Adoption by BPN o f the Project Management Manual (Which includes Procurement Manual;
     Financial Management Manual) acceptable to the Bank; and
0    Selection o f a financial management consultant to design and install a computerized financial
     accounting system, train BPN staff in accordance to TORSacceptable to the Bank.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
     BAPPENAS will complete the consultation process on the development o f the national land policy
     by December 31, 2004 and submit the final land policy for government consideration by March 31,
     2005.
     BPN will develop and adopt a Long-term Strategic Plan and a Human Resources Management plan no
     later than January 31, 2006.
     BPN will develop minimumservice standards, including a detailed plan to implement and monitor
     these standards no later than December 31, 2005.
     BPN will hire the independent monitor (Academic Institution or CSO) no later than
     December 31, 2006 to monitor the compliance o f land offices with minimumservice standards.
     BPN will submit to the Bank, for review and no objection, a list o f Kabupaten and cities to be
     added to the program every year. Selection o f these Kabupatens and cities will be done in accordance
     to the selection criteria agreed upon during negotiations.
     A Strategy on Land Informationwill be developedand submittedto the Bank for review by
     June 30,2006.



                                                      - 24 -

   MOHA will prepareand fimishto the Bank for review and comments, a training plan for
   component 5, no later than October 31 o f each year, starting October 31, 2004.
   MOHA will prepare, by December 31, 2007, a strategic plan for scaling up the support to local
   government covering activities, timeframe and resources needed.
   B P N will consolidate the work plans and budgetfrom the implementingagencies and hmish
   it to the Bank for review and comments no later than July 31of each year starting
   July 31, 2004; and finalize the work plan no later than October 31 o f each year; implement the
   work plantaking into account the Bank comments.
   B P N will ensure the following reports are submittedto the Bank:(i)  semi-annual progress reports
   by March 1 and September 1 o f each year, commencing on September 1,2004; (ii)report on the
                                                                                       a
   project mid-term review by March 1, 2007; and (iii)  within six months after project
   completion, the government contribution to the Implementation Completion Report evaluating
   project performance.
   A mid-termreview will be conductedno later than March 31, 2007.
   A monitoring and evaluation system to monitor project input, output and outcomes will be
   developed and implementedby June 2004.
   The base line o f the socio-economic and environmental impact study would be commenced no later
   than March 31, 2005 and the second round of surveys would be commenced no later than December
   31, 2008.

H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocuments for thefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyfor thestart
        o f project implementation.
lZ 1.b) Notapplicable.

4 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
      project implementation.
  3. The Project ImplementationPlan has been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
      quality.
04. Thefollowing itemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(Section G):



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Kl 1.This project complies withallapplicable Bankpolicies.
CI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
      all other applicable Bank policies.




Wael Zakout                                                                      Andrew D. Steer
Team Leader                                                                      Country Director




                                                   - 25 -

                                  Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                 INDONESIA:Land Management and Policy Development Project
                                  KeyIndicators
                                        Performance           lata Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives                                                                     Critical Assumptions
,ector-related CAS Goal:     Sector indicators:               ector/ country reports:    Irom Goal to Bank Mission)
.ffective implementation of  Clearer clarity in functions at  ovemment's reports o n
ecentralization.             :ach level o f government        )cia1and economic
                             through law 22 and law 25.       welopment.

ustainable income-creating   Land rights policies and         ank's sector studies.
pportunities for poor        legislation reformed and
ouseholds.                   improved.
'roject Development          Outcome / impact                                             ?om Objective to Goal)
Ibjective:                   indicators:
.and tenure security                                                                      :redit is available to meet
mproved.                     Strengthened perception of
                             land tenure security.                                        emand;


                             Increase access to formal                                    lomestic macro-economic

                             credit.                                                      nvironment remains
                                                                                          avorable;

                             Increase o f formal land
                             market activities.                                           'olitical stability continued.


                             Increase investment in
                             agriculture land and property
                             development.

                             Increase in land values.

Efficiency and transparency                                   locio-economic impact       Continued commitment
)flandtitling andregistrationIncreased satisfaction rate in   ssessment.                  withinBPNfor openness and
mproved.                      land registration.                                          :hange.

                              Increased percentage o f        Yient Feedback Surveys.

                              subsequent transactions
                              registered in land office.

                              Decreased number o f
                              complaints about land
                              registration.

                              Decrease in informal paymen
                              in land registration process.

Zapacity o f local government                                 Xent Feedback Surveys.      Zontinued commitment o f
 nland management             Satisfaction o f land services                              local government for opennes
mhanced.                      (land management) rises.                                    ind reform.




                                                           -26-

                                 KeyIndicators
                                      Performance         Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives                                                            Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:             Voject reports:          :Tom Outputs to Objective)
Component:

Component 1                 1.1    Completion of          jovernment reports.      iovernment commitment
                           consultation ofNational                                 ndpolitical support are
Government's capacity to   Land Policy by December                                 dequate.
formulate landpolicy        3 1, 2004, submission of
improved.                  white paper by March 31,                                ,eadership of the steering
                           2005 for government                                     ommittee is strong.
                           consideration and adoption.


New National Land Policy    1.2    Policies on adat and
Framework developed.        communal land prepared;
                           draft regulations prepared
Priority land policies and and submitted for adoption
regulatory instruments     by September 30,2007.
formulated and adopted.     1.3    Policy on land use
                           and spatial planning will be
                           preparedand submitted for
                           adoption by December
                           2007.

                            1.4    Policy on land
                            distributionpreparedand
                            submitted for adoption by
                           June 2006.

                            1.5    Study on
                            simplification of land
                           tenure instruments,
                            including state land
                            completed and submitted foi
                            adoption by June 2008.

                            1.6    Tax and fee structure
                            study completedby
                            December 2006.

                            1.7    Land markets study
                            complete by December31,
                            2006.

                            1.8 Study on provisiono f
                            land for public infra-
                            structure and compensation
                            completed by Dec. 2006.



                                                     - 27 -

:omponent2                   2.1      BPN long-term         'roject quarterly report.   :ommitment o f B P N to
,and administration          strategic plan and Human                                   :form remains strong.
istitutions strengthened and ResourcesManagement
perational capacity and      Development Plan i s
m i c e levels improved.     prepared and adopted by
                             January 31,2006.

                             2.2      Five model land       ntemal and External
                             office re-engineered and       donitoring Reports.
                             operational by June 2007,
                             and 15 by the end ofthe
                             project.

                             2.3 Minimumservice
                             standards developedby
                             December 31,2005 and
                             monitoring systeminplace
                             by December 31,2006.

                             2.4 All re-engineered land
                             offices meeting 70% o f
                             services standards by
                             December 31,2007 and
                             90% o f the standards by the
                             project.

                             2.5 Land Administration
                              and Management education
                             program established and
                              operational by August
                              2007.


2omponent 3                   3.1     One million titles     'roject quarterly report.  Zounterpart funds are

ritles are issued effectively issuedby systematic land                                  wailable.

md efficiently,.              titlingby mid-termreview       :nternal and External
                              and 1.5 millionmore titles     Monitoring Reports.
'rivate surveying sector      by the end o fthe project.
ieveloped.                                                   3ank's supervision report.
                              3.2      95% o f titles
                              collected by beneficiaries.    Industry workshop
                                                             Feedback.
                              3.3      90% o f systematic
                              titling parcels adjudicated,
                              surveyed and registered.

                              3.4    Percentage o f land
                              titles issued inname o f


                                                        - 28 -

                            women or injoint
                            ownership.

Zomponent 4                 4.1    L I S strategy developed  'roject quarterly report.  'here is a political will for
                            by June 30,2006.
nformation system for                                                                   :oordination among various

lecentralized and improved 4.2     Key LIS data sharing,     lank supervision reports.  :overnment agencies

and administration and      access and pricing policy, and                              egarding sharingo f land

nanagement is created and   data standards (as identified                               nformation

hctioning well.             inLIS strategy) finalized and
                            adoptedby June 30,2007.

                            4.3    National LIS
                            implementation plan
                            completed by December 31,
                            2007.
                           I
Zomponent 5                 5.1    Assessment Report         'roject quarterly report.  ,oca1 governments are
Zxperience o f local        completed by March 2006                                     :ommitted to reform.
;overnment inland           and national regulations         3ank's supervision report.
nanagement h c t i o n      developed and issuedby                                      ivailability o f counterpart
,eviewedand capacity        December 31,2006.                                           imding.
issessed.
                            5.2     100 local
,oca1 governments           governments receive
trengthened to efficiently  training by midterm review
mdertakeland management     (March 2007) and all local
knctions.                   governments by the endo f
                            the project.

                            5.3 Piloting o f local land
                            management initiatives
                            initiated by January 2006.




                                                        - 29 -

                                Key Performance          Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives            Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Components I         nputs: (budget for each     'roject reports:         :Tom Components to
Sub-components:              :omponent)                                           )utputs)
1. Developmentof Land        JS$2.94
Policies

1.1 Development o f a
national land policy.

Formulationo f specific land
polices and regulatory
instruments.
2. Institutional
Development,Capacity         JSs9.29
Building,and Training

2.1 Development and
implementation o f BPN
Strategic Plan

2.2 Re-engineeringo f Land
Offices

Development and
implementation o f planto
support local governments
to take over decentralized
landfunctions
3. Implementationof An       JSs66.62
Accelerated Land Titling
Program

3.1 Systematic titling

3.2 Sporadic titling

Development o fprivate
surveying
4. Developmentof Land        JS$2.86
InformationSystem

4.1Initiation o f national
Land Information System
(LIS) program

4.2 Establishment o f L I S
infrastructure



                                                    - 30 -

[Develop L I S pilot study
 5. CapacityBuildingfor     JS$5.91
 Local Governmentinland
 management.

 5.1 Assessment of local
 government capacity to
 undertake land
 management;

 5.2 Training and capacity
 building;

 5.3. Development of
 strategic plan to support
 local governments.

 5.4 M O H A project
 management support.




                                       -31 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
               INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy DevelopmentProject

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$2.94 million
                       -
Development of Land Policy and Regulatory Framework

This component will support the development o f a land policy and regulatory framework for land
management through: (i)the development o f government capacity to coordinate the formulation o f land
policies through consultative processes; (ii)the development o f a national land policy; (iii) formulation
                                                                                            the
and studies o f specific key policies in the areas o f land management and administration and the
development and drafting o f the regulatory framework to implement them.

The Basic Agrarian Law o f Indonesia has not been substantially reviewed and updated since it was adopted
in 1960. Since then many laws and regulations governing landmatters inIndonesia have been developed
on an ad-hoc basis without regard to either the Basic Agrarian Law or other laws dealing with land issues.
As a result laws regarding land are now inconsistent with the Basic Agrarian Law and with each other, and
furthermore out o f step with actual practice. The government now wishes to revise and update the Basic
Agrarian Law and has mandated BPN to undertake this exercise. However, it also wishes to broaden its
scope to make it more relevant for the current conditions o f Indonesia. Revisingthe Basic Agrarian Law
should be done within the context o f a comprehensive and coherent land policy consultation process which
i s being supported under this component o f the project.

1.1. Development of GovernmentCapacity to Formulate LandPolicy

This subcomponent will support the creation o f a small land policy secretariat to undertake policy analysis
and studies, coordinate public consultations, and propose policy recommendations for the LMPDP
Coordinating Committee for consideration.

The existing LMPDP Coordinating Committee will continue to provide oversight and guidance to the
policy development process and will approve policy study recommendations. This LMPDP Coordinating
Committee will continue to facilitate the inclusion o f all sector ministries and agencies in the land policy
development and implementation process and will make recommendations on which agency is best suited to
take the lead indeveloping each o fthe policy areas.

The subcomponent will finance the rental o f a small office for the Secretariat, one vehicle and a
motorcycle, office equipment and furniture, public consultations, salaries and travel costs o f contractual
staff, travel costs o f government staff, seminars, and events, and the publication and dissemination o f
policy papers, laws, and regulations. The subcomponent would also finance international and national
technical assistance.

1.2. Development of a National Land Policy

The Coordinating Minister o f Economic Affairs has requested the LMPDP Coordinating Committee to
develop a draft national land policy for cabinet consideration.        Following this request the LMPDP
coordinating committee commissioned the preparation o f a discussion paper on land policy which addresses
issues related to land administration, use, management, and outlines the various options for policy
recommendations. The government i s planning workshop consultations and focus group discussions in
various regions o f the country. This consultation will take place from June to December 2004.


                                                     -32 -

The national land policy will provide valuable input to the proposed revisions in the Basic Agrarian Law
and other important laws in the country related to land and land resources such forest and mining. This
subcomponent will also support the consultation process o f the revised Basic Agrarian Law.

The subcomponent will finance consultant services, cost o f consultation workshops and focus group
workshops, and government staff travel expense. The subcomponent will also finance dissemination o f the
land policy once approved by the LMPDP steering committee andthe Cabinet.

1.3. Formulation of Specific LandPolicy/Regulatory Instruments.

This subcomponent will support the formulation o f key land policies for land administration and
management, and the drafting o f required regulatory and legal instruments to implement them.            The
subcomponent will provide support for reviews o f policy and where necessary studies on these issues are
available, provide policy development and any changes in regulations or amendments to the laws. A
number of policy issues have beententatively identifiedduring project preparation including: recognition of
communal land, land distribution, and the simplification o f land tenure instruments and definition and
management o f state land. In addition a number o f policy studies will be supported. These include a land
markets study, land taxes and fee structures, sustainability o f the land registration system, improvement o f
spatial and land use management for local government, and provision o f land for public infrastructure
schemes. Funding is also provided for two additional studies whose theme are yet to be determined.

The formulation o f policies will be done first through the analysis and preparation o f discussion papers
identifying the issues and options, discussions with the legal department o f BPN, undertaking appropriate
public consultation in the various regions o f the country and among various interest groups. The final
outputs will be draft policies and regulations on the subject matter to be submitted to the LMPDP
Coordinating Committee for consideration. Once approved the regulatory framework will be prepared and
submitted to the relevant govemment body for adoption.

The subcomponent will finance consultant services, consultation workshops, travel expense of government
staff and expenses on contractual staff.       The subcomponent will also finance the publication and
dissemination o f the approved policies and regulatory framework.

Project Component 2 US$9.29 million
                       -
Institutional Development, Capacity Building, and Training.

The objectives o f this component are to support BPN's transformation into a transparent, responsive and
more service-oriented institution and to develop the capacity o f local academic institutions to provide land
administration education and training.

Presidential Decree (Keppres) No. 34 (May 2003) confirmed the transfer o f government's authority on nine
activities to local governments. These nine activities are: (i) location permit issuance; (ii) o f land in
                                                                                              taking
the public interest; (iii)cultivated land dispute settlement; (iv) compensation determination for land taken
for development; (v) land distribution and compensation for land held in excess of standards; (vi)
determination and resolution o f ulayat land problems; (vii) resolution o f un-utilized land problems; (viii)
land opening permit provision; and (ix) land use planning in local government jurisdictions. The residual
functions (including land registration, titling, surveying and mapping) are delivered by BPN through
provincial, district and local land offices.




                                                     - 33 -

This component supports the transformation o f BPN through two subcomponents covering: (i)      development
and implementation o f long-term strategic planning for BPN; and (ii)     re-engineering o f land offices to
deliver transparent and efficient land administration services to the community at the local level. A third
subcomponent will provide support to the legal department o f BPN to develop policy and prepare laws and
regulations. The fourth subcomponent will address education and training to strengthen land administration
expertise. The final subcomponent will finance overall project management which will be coordinated by
BPN.

2.1. Developmentand Implementation of BPNLong-term StrategicPlan

This subcomponent will assist the development and implementation o f a strategic plan to strengthen BPN
as the central government agency responsible for oversight o f the national system o f land administration.
The strategic plan will include early confirmation with stakeholders o f the organizational structural
arrangements between central and local levels and progressive implementation o f the deconcentrated
structural model. Specific subcomponent activities will include development o f standard operating
procedures for human resource management and development and the introduction o f a modular training
program. Uniform procedures for records management and increased levels o f computerization will be
developed inthis subcomponent.

The subcomponent will finance intemational and local consultants to assist BPN to develop a long-term
strategic plan and human resources plan. The component will finance comprehensive training programs as
well as a program o f regular national stakeholder workshops as part o f the community awareness and
participation process.

2.2. Re-engineeringof LandOffices

The focus o f the subcomponent is streamlining access to services to especially encourage and facilitate
community participation in land registration.        Assistance will be provided to implement standard
operational procedures, improve service standards and monitor community satisfaction with service
delivery. This subcomponent will support the development, implementation and monitoring o f uniform
standards for transparent and efficient service delivery and the engagement o f stakeholders inprograms for
monitoring o f landoffice performance and responsiveness. The focus.will be on re-engineering a maximum
o f 15 land offices (Le. model land offices), where systematic adjudication will be undertaken (Component
3). The performance o f these offices will be monitored. An independent organization, such as an academic
institution or NGO, will be hired to monitor land office minimumservice standard compliance.

BPN has previously classified land offices on the basis o f size and capacity and this subcomponent will
develop model land offices for different classifications. Specific activities will include modernization of
land documentation and implementation o f uniform records management procedures based on
computer-based techniques in conjunction with the parallel Land Office Computerization (LOC) project.
The subcomponent will support community education and participation programs to promote the benefits
o f land titles and to maximize security o f tenure by ensuring all subsequent land transactions are formally
registered at the land office.

This subcomponent will finance the construction and renovation o f model land offices, office equipment
and furniture and installation o f Information Technology. It will also finance international and national
technical assistance inlandregistration, office operations and community education and participation.



                                                     - 34 -

2.3. Support to the Legal Departmentof BPN

The subcomponent will provide support to the legal department o f B P N to develop policy and prepare laws
and regulations. The legal department o f BPN i s active in preparation o f several laws and regulations and
the subcomponent will strengthen this section by financing Technical Assistance, both local and
intemational consultants, and financing consultation workshops, public education and dissemination o f
legal changes and reforms. To ensure better linkage with the landpolicy sub-component under Component
I,work onpolicy andlawreformwillbecoordinatedthroughthe LMPDPsteering committee or its
successor incoordinating land policy development.

2.4. Educationand Training

The focus of this subcomponent is indeveloping the capacity o f local academic institutions inthe provision
o f quality programs in a range o f land administration disciplinary areas through formal courses o f study
and short courses. Through these programs, BPN, other government agencies, local government and the
private sector will have access to a range o f local graduates, post-graduates and other qualified personnel.
Relationships will be developed with recognized intemational universities, through exchange fellowships,
development o f curricula and other arrangements, will be used to develop and strengthen land
administration programs offered by Indonesian academic institutions.

2.5. OverallProjectManagement

This subcomponent will support BPN to manage the project.             The sub-component will also support
monitoring and evaluation, including financing the socio-economic and environmental impact assessment
study. It includes financing o f intemational and national technical assistance, contract staff, incremental
operating costs including travel cost o f government staff supervising the project.

Project Component 3 US$ 66.62 million
                      -
Implementationof an AcceleratedLandTitlingProgram

This component will support an accelerated national landtitling program through: (i)   community awareness
and participation; (ii)
                      systematic land titling; (iii)streamlining o f Land Office registration processes (such
as the process o f sporadic registration); and (iv) increased capacity o f the private surveying sector. The
component proposes a program o f systematic registration that initially focuses on five provinces in Java
with modest expansion to 4-5 selected urban centers outside Java.

3.1. CommunityAwareness andParticipation

This subcomponent will support information dissemination through mass media (television, radio and
newspapers) and posters about systematic, sporadic land titling program, and land transaction registration.
The information dissemination also includes support for information dissemination to communities
undergoing systematic' adjudication.      Prior to the commencement o f the land titling activities in the
community, the project will organize an information campaign, through focus groups discussions and
workshops to explain the project objectives, rationale and benefits, and also explain the forms, the costs,
the procedures and legal rights to the communities, covering menand women separately. The information
campaign will commence about one month before the surveying and adjudication starts. The project will
hire and provide on the job training to local CSOs or community members to undertake the village level
information dissemination and community awareness andparticipation campaigns.



                                                     - 35 -

This subcomponent will also include support for the collection of community land profiles to define village
boundaries, describe land distribution and identify any pre-existing land disputes. This information will be
used in the planning o f the titling program and later for monitoring the socioeconomic impacts o f the
project. A standard form for gathering the data will be developed during the pre-implementation period.

This subcomponent will finance consultants, CSOs involvement in the implementation o f this
sub-component, office and equipment,and incremental operating costs.

3.2. Systematic Land Titling

This subcomponent will issue about 2.5 million land title certificates through systematic registration in
selected land ofice jurisdictions.    Subcomponent activities include an active program o f community
education and participation to be undertaken throughout the preliminary, operational and post-operational
stages o f the program Management will be decentralized through Management Support Units established in
respective provinces and district land offices. Community members will be recruited to join the systematic
adjudication teams (SATs) and will be provided by on the job training under this subcomponent. The
cadastral survey component o f the systematic program will be fully contracted to the private sector and
standard specifications and contracts will be reviewed and re-developed on the basis o f experience inLAP I.


The subcomponent will finance vehicles, motorbikes and equipment purchase and the provision o f base
mapping and cadastral surveys. The subcomponent will also finance contract staff, and travel expenses o f
govemment staff.

3.3. Streamlining Land Office Registration Processes

At present about 1.3 million parcels are registered each year by sporadic means, however this number must
increase significantly if the backlog o f unregistered land (estimated to be 50-60 million parcels) is to be
realistically challenged. Sporadic titling (Titling on demand) currently takes a long time and very costly
because o f the formal and informal fees. As a result, only the rich and wealthy can afford sporadic titling,
and this left most o f the poor without land titles. The subcomponent would streamline the processes to
enable the speedy and cheap sporadic titling activities.       Specific activities include a study aimed at
rationalizing fee structures on the basis o f moving towards full cost recovery and the use o f the private
sector to undertake cadastral surveys. Other activities include review o f service standards and community
programs to encourage application for first title registration as well the registration o f subsequent property
transactions. The swadaya, or community initiated funded program o f systematic registration will be
encouraged under this sub-component

The streamlining o f operations will be coordinated with the model land office approach under Component
2. The sub-component will also support a study on reviewing the derivative (subsequent) registration to
gauge community understanding o f the benefit o f titles, and barriers for subsequent transactions, including
perception, cost both formal and informal, access to landoffice, and time taken.

The subcomponent will finance international and nationaltechnical assistance and training.

3.4. Development of the Private Surveying Sector

Sustainability o f the title system, and in particular systematic adjudication, is reliant on a viable private
sector to undertake cadastral surveying. Development o f the private sector will benefit the community by
introducing competition and reducing the opportunities for rent-seeking by government officials who


                                                    - 36 -

dominate the performance o f cadastral surveys for sporadic title applications (refer to subcomponents 2B
and 3C).

The focus will be on stimulating the private cadastral surveying sector using the considerable business
potential generated through the strategic contracts under the systematic titling program. The subcommittee
will support an industry study on the basis o f existing and required capacity. This will be a basis for a
review o f the courses established in academic institutions to ensure education capacity matches demand.
The legislation for licensing of surveyors will be reviewed and assistance provided in the development o f
regulations to govern industry practice. The subcomponent will finance technical assistance and training to
private sector surveyors.     Support for the establishment o f a viable industry association will also be
provided with strong encouragement to exercise control over industry standards and regulatory controls.

Project Component 4 US$2.86 million
                       -
Development of a Land Information System

The objective of this component is develop a framework for a Land Information System (LIS) to facilitate
improved access to land information for government agencies and civil society, promote transparency and
facilitate public participation in land management, and improve land administration services.

The need for this LIS is based on the premise that landinformation is critical for effective decision making
on social, economic and environmental issues at all levels o f government. Presidential Decree 3412003
(Article 1) recognizes this need and calls for the accelerated development o f a national land information
system that covers:

         an inventory o f land assets managedby all levels o f government;
         textual and spatial data supporting land registration and, inthe future, the delivery o f land
         registration services as part o f the e-government program;
         cadastral mapping; and
         land use management data.

LIS development will require strong coordination within BPN and other government agencies. It i s also
critical that the development o f this component be linked and coordinated with the Land Office
Computerization Project (LOC).        There will be linkages to all other projects undertaken within BPN,
especially those related to re-engineering o f land office functions.

The component will support: (i)     development o f a national land information strategy; (ii) establishment o f
LIS infrastructure; and (iii) an LIS pilot study covering one district.

4.1. Development of a National Land Information Strategy

This subcomponent will establish an appropriate administration and governance structure to be responsible
for the inter agency coordination o f LIS activities. The LIS objective can only be achieved if the major
stakeholders express a willingness to cooperate. A Land Information System Steering Committee will be
established under the chairmanship o f B P N with representatives from the major stakeholder organizations
already developing land related systems and representatives from local government and community groups
with an interest in landissues. A permanent LIS Support Group dedicated to providing technical advisory
support to the Steering Committee will also be established. The major activity o f this subcomponent is to
support the preparation o f a LIS strategy outlining the key initiatives and features that need to be
incorporated inthe development o f a national LIS.



                                                       - 37 -

The subcomponent will finance an LIS strategic planner; travel costs o f government staff and workshop
and meetingexpenses.

4.2. Establishment of L I S Infrastructure

This subcomponent will support the development ofkey technical standards and the formulation o f key LIS
policies required for the development o f a national LIS as identified in the LIS strategy (from the first
subcomponent). Technical standards will include data standards (required to produce integrated
information products), a regime o f data administration spanning all involved government agencies, data
dictionariedfeature catalogues, metadata and a corporate LIS data model. Key policies to be dealt with
include data sharing and data maintenance arrangements involving all contributing agencies; LIS training
needs; fees and charges; public access to land information and data privacy.

The subcomponent will finance (national) consultant services, consultation workshops and training
initiatives including study tours.

4.3. Develop L I S Pilot Study

This subcomponent will support a two year pilot study spanning in one district (to be selected in
consultation with Component 5) and will incorporate data and information relating to land management
contributed by a range o f agencies. It will create a range o f potential integrated land information products
and services including a prototype inventory o f all land assets managed by different levels o f government,
potential land management e-government services and inter-agency data maintenance linkages. It will test
the technical issues associated with providing these products and services. This improved understanding
will provide the experience required to finalize the design and implementation plan o f the national land
information system as i s required by the Presidential Decree 34/2003 Article 1. It will also demonstrate
how improved transparency inland management can be achieved.

The subcomponent will finance hardware and software, data conversion contracts, (national) consultant
services (software development) and consultation workshops.

Project Component 5 US$5.91million
                       -

Capacity Building Support for Local Government

This component will seek to strengthen the exercise by local governments o f their fbnctions in land
management with efficiency and transparency. It will be administered by the Ministry o f Home Affairs, the
ministry responsible for local government.

Presidential Decree (Keppres) No. 34 (May 31, 2003) confirmed the transfer o f government's authority on
nine activities to local governments. These nine activities are: (a) location permit issuance; (b) taking of
land in the public interest; (c) cultivated land dispute settlement; (d) compensation determination for land
taken for development; (e) land distribution and compensation for land held in excess o f standards; (f)
determination and resolution o f ulayat land problems; (g) resolution of unutilized land problems; (h) land
opening permit provision; and (i) use planning inlocal government jurisdictions.
                                  land

The component will undertake: (a) an in-depthassessment o f the local government's capacity to undertake
the above nine functions, with proposals for changes inexisting norms and standard operating procedures;
(b) capacity building through training and support for five local government pilots to develop sound


                                                     - 38 -

practices that can be replicated elsewhere; (c) TA for MOHA in developing a national strategy for
strengthening local government land administration, and (d) TA and modest project management unit
development for MOHA's implementation o f this component.

5.1. Assessment of Local Government's Capacity to Undertake Land Administration and
ManagementFunctions

This subcomponent will assess local government's capacity inthis area based on a review of their practice
developed over the past five years. The assessment will in the first year o f the project conduct ten case
studies o f selected local government units. The local government units to be studied will be selected for :(i)
commitment to undertake significant land management activities, (ii)     willingness to participate in the case
studies, and (iii) geographic breadth. They will be selected by the PIU and subjected to agreement o f the
Bank.The five pilot local government units under subcomponent B should be included among the ten case
study units.

The case studies will involve interviews with local government staff, clients, NGOs, andother stakeholders,
and will use participatory appraisal tools such as stakeholder workshops and focus groups. Village land
profiles will be carried out. The assessment will evaluate the current norms, standard operating procedures
and practices; existing human and other resources for implementation, and corruption issues and ways to
address them. Based on these ten case studies the PIU and consultants will develop a self-assessment
instrument to be used nationally. The assessment final report will recommend organizational options, norms
and operating procedures, and resource flows in light o f the experience on the ground. It will identify and
prioritize training and other needs, responding to demand from local government units.

The subcomponent will finance consultant services, consultationlfocus-groups and workshops, production
o f reports, travel expenses and other incremental operational costs o f staff and consultants.

5.2. Trainingand Capacity Building

This subcomponent will provide training for staff o f local government entities on a variety o f topics,
tentatively including participatory land use planning, community mapping, participatory decision-making
for issuance o f izin lokasi (location permit), land dispute resolution, and identification o f land to be
acquired for public purposes. The training program will respond to the demand for training by local
government units. The PIU and consultants will develop a training curriculum and training materials
(including case studies) based on the case studies and assessment, and will conduct training workshops and
other training sessions.

Five pilot local government units will be identified for this subcomponent. They will be selected on the
basis o f their initiative in undertaking their land management responsibilities and their willingness to
participate inthe pilot activity.

Training activities will initially be undertaken in these five pilot local government units, then expanded to
other parts o f the country through regional training workshops and other learning events, reaching 100
local government units by project mid-term and virtually all the 400 plus units by the end o f the project.
The training will be coordinated by MOHA, with input from other concerned government agencies,
including BPN, BAPPENAS and the Ministry o f Settlement and Regional Infrastructure.

The five pilot local government units will be the focus for capacity building through action learning. The
subcomponent will provide support to initiative o f these local government units to help them achieve more


                                                     - 39 -

effective and transparent landmanagement, enabling them to become models and training grounds for other
local governments. The local government planning office will act as the secretariat for the pilot,
coordinating the local government staff with land responsibilities for their participation. This a modest pilot
effort but if successful, the approaches developed under this component may be taken up by other
operations in support o f local governments, such as ILGRIP and USDRP, or serve as the basis for a
self-standing project to assist a much larger number o f local government entities in carrying out their land
management functions.

The sub-component will in connection with training finance study tours for local government officials,
consultant services, workshops and other training events, and travel expenses and other incremental
operating expenses o f staff and consultants. Inthe five pilot districts, it will in addition support minor civil
works, office and other equipment and fumiture, community land profiling, public consultations and other
participatory planning, and survey and mapping activities.

5.3. Preparation Strategic Plan for Broader Strengthening of Local Government Land Management

This subcomponent will provide resources for preparation by MOHA in the second or third year of the
project o f a Strategic Plan for strengthening o f local government land management. The effort will draw
upon the learning from the assessment under sub-component A and the work in the pilot local government
units under sub-component B. I t will develop a strategy for scaling up good norms and practices on a
broader geographic basis. The strategic plan will set out tasks to be undertaken and resources required.
This subcomponent will support consultant services, costs of regional workshops and a national workshop
in connection with preparation of the plan, and travel expenses and other incremental costs of consultants
and staff.

5.4. Support to Project ImplementationUnit Development

This subcomponent will support MOHA in carrying out its role in support of local government land
management.        MOHA has limited experience in undertaking large international projects. This
subcomponent will build its capacity to serve the decentralized management system and help it ready itself
to manage much larger initiatives in support o f local government entities. A small project management unit
will be established under the Director o f Institution for Decentralization under the Director General of
Regional Autonomy. The P I U will be responsible for all procurement and contracting under this
component, including that requested by the pilot local government units. This subcomponent will support
contractual staff services, consultant services, office equipment and furniture, and travel and other
incidental operating costs o f consultants and staff.




                                                     - 40 -

                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
           INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy Development Project

                                                                      I              1
                  Proiect Cost Bv ComDonent               IUS $million I
                                                             Local      US $million I US $million
                                                                          Foreign        Total

Component 1: Land Policy Component                           2.17          0.69          2.86
Component2: InstitutionalDevelopment,Capacity Building,and   7.40          1.66          9.06
Training
Component3: Implementationof an AcceleratedLandTitling       50.86         14.10         64.96
Program
Component4: Developmentof a LandInformationSystem            1.85          0.94          2.79
Component5: Supportto LocalGovernment                        4.98          0.78          5.76

       Price Contingencies                                   1.73          0.47          2.20
                                       Total Project Costs   68.99         18.63         87.62


1                               Total Financina Rewired1     68.99     I   18.63     I   87.62      1


                                                             Local         Foreign       Total
                Project Cost By Category**                 US $million    US $million  US million

      Goods                                                  1.28            1.92         3.20
     Works                                                   1.01            0.43         1.45
      Consultant Services and Studies                        5.41            2.21         7.62
      Contract Services for Mapping and Cadastral            22.11           5.53        27.64
      Surveys
      Training and Workshops                                 3.92            0.98         4.90
      Land Registration Costs                                26.02           6.50         32.52
      Incremental Operating Cost                             8.97            0.0          9.97
      Vehicles                                               0.26            1.05         1.31

                                       Total Project Costs   68.99          18.63         87.62


I                               Total Financina Reauiredl    68.99       I  18.63     I   87.62     1




                                          -41 -

                              Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary

              INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy Development Project

A. Economic Rate of Return (ERR)

We use data including household- and plot-level variables to measure the economic rate o f return (ERR)
from holding a land title. The dataset is collected from a beneficiary survey, which was conducted by the
SEMERU Research Institute for the ICR work o f L A P I,in early 2002. About 1,600 households were
randomly selected from both the project as well as the non-project areas. We believe the dataset lays a
good foundation to measure the ERR for LMPDP due to the following two reasons: (a) there has been no
significant changes in Indonesia's macroeconomic situation since early 2002; and (b) the LMPDP basically
covers the same geographic area as LAP Idid.

Qualitative benefits

We need to develop`a good qualitative understanding o f the benefits before quantifying it. The beneficiary
survey showed that the major economic and social benefits from obtaining a land title are the following:

1.       First, land titles improved tenure security. 70 percent o frespondents believed that they now have a
         greater tenure security than before because o f obtaining land titles;
2.       Second, land titles improved landholders' access to credit from financial institutions. According to
         the survey, the rate o f using title as collateral to obtain credit in the project area was 12.8
         percentage point higher than that inthe non-project area;
3.       Third, there was evidence showing that land titles strengthened investment incentives o f
         landholders. In the non-project area, 18 percent o f households reported that they had made
         land-improvement-related investments; inthe project areas, the number was 24 percent; and
4.       Fourth, in the project area land markets became more active and land prices were higher than that
         inthe non-project area. About 2 percent of households reported that they had sold their land since
         the LAP'S implementation in the non-project area; however, the number was 4 percent in the
         project area. Preliminary analysis also shows that the land price in the project area is about 65
         percentage point higher thanthat inthe non-project area.

 There are some other benefits which are difficult to be quantified, such as reducing land conflicts and
 strengthening landholders' negotiation position inthe process o f land acquisition, etc.

 Methodology

 We use a standard econometric methodology (linear regression) to analyze the impact o f titling on land
 prices to calculate the economic rate o f return. Land prices are used as a proxy for economic value o f land
 to calculate ERR under the assumption that all titling benefits will eventually be reflected by the change o f
 land prices; that is, the change o f land prices captures the net effect o f all the benefits o f land titling.
 Increasingly active land markets in Java, reflected by a gradual increase o f land turnover rate and
 confirmed by the observations from our field visits, give us additional confidence for using land price as a
 proxy for economic benefits. Generally speaking, the results from analyzing the land prices should be more
 accurate than results from other methodologies, for example, analyzing increased productivity.




                                                      - 42 -

There are many factors that affect land prices besides possession o f a land title; therefore, factors other
than land titles must be controlled in order to have a meaningful analysis. In our analysis, we control
family characteristics (e.g., consumption per capita, education level, age, and gender o f the household head)
and plot characteristics (e.g., whether there i s a land-improvement investment on the plot since obtaining
title, if the plot has a house, the construction materials o f the house). We also control the regional impacts
by using provincial dummy variables (7 provinces). To analyze the different impacts o f land titling in
urban and rural areas, we also conduct sub-group analysis. The total plot sample number is 977.

Results

The overall economic rate o f return o f holding a land title is about 33 percent, and the ERR is higher in
rural area (47 percent) than that in urban area (32 percent).           The coefficient o f title is statistically
significant at 99 percent confidence level and the result is robust across different specifications. The result
means that the value o f a plot with a title will be 33 percent higher than that o f a plot without a title,
holding other factors constant.

Two additional pieces o f evidence give us more confidence to the above results. First, SMERU's study
found that the land tax (PBB) inthe project area has increased about 33.2 percentage point higher than that
in the non-project area, which is very close to our estimated ERR. It should be noticed that the PBB is
calculated independently by the tax authority based on the market land prices in different areas. Second,
findings from the studies conducted by the World Bank for land projects in other countries also show
similar range of ERRs. For example, inthe case of Thailand, where the Bank has successfully completed a
18-year-long land titling program, the ERR was ranged from 30 percent to 34 percent. In the case o f
Ghana, the expected ERR for the land administration project is about 38 percent.

However, the ERR, as calculated here, may overvalue the net benefits from the perspective o f the society as
a whole, The overvaluation stems from, as arguedby Feder et. al. (1988), the fact that landowners are risk
averse, while society is risk neural (or less risk verse).        Therefore the landowners pay a higher risk
premiumto security than the society does. To reflect the ERRto the society, the ERRto farmers should be
discounted, particularly in areas with very high tenure security risk. Taking into account this risk premium
factor and assuming the discount rate ranging from 30 percent to 40 percent, the ERR o f titling to the
society will range from 20 percent to 23 percent, which is still relatively high.

B. FinancialRateof Return(F'RR)

The purpose o f conducting financial analysis is to assess whether the net financial benefits expected from
the project are attractive enough for the project participants. In the proposed LMPDP, there are two key
project participants: the landholders and the Government.

Financialbenefits and costs for landholders

As in many other countries, two considerations motivate individual landholders to obtain land titles: a) to
improve land ownership security and b) to access a cheaper as well as a larger amount o f credit from
formal financial institutions by using land title as collateral. As a result o f an improved tenure security and
improved credit access, the value o f land will increase. Under the normal situation where titles are issued
upon request by landholders (Le., sporadic registration which requires landholders to pay the full cost), the
landholders who request a titling service do so with the expectation that the financial retum from acquiring
the title would be higher thanthe cost ofthe title.


                                                      - 43 -

Inmost cases, land titling projects adopt a systematic adjudication methodto undertake land tilting inlarge
volumes. To ensure a high participation o f landholders on a voluntary basis, the cost o f land titling has
been kept at a level significantly lower than the cost o f producing a title. The affordability o f the poorest
landholders is one major criteria o f setting an appropriate registration fee. For example, in the case o f
Thailand, landholders are charged less than US$5 per title, comparing to the actual cost o f US$36 per title.
In the case of LAP I,landholders were charged about US$3 per title while the actual cost was around
US$26. The difference between the actual titling cost and the fee charged to landholders is the subsidy
from the Government, and the Governments will recover the subsidy by a) charging full registration fee on
subsequent land transactions and b) expected revenue increase from land-related taxes.                Both the
Government and the Bank agreed that a similar arrangement would be kept in the LMPDP.                       This
arrangement should be attractive enough to individual landholders (evidence from many sources show that
actual cost o f sporadic titling is around US$600, and maybe even higher).

Financialbenefits and costs for the Government

The government generated incremental revenues Cfinancial benefits) mainly from the following three
sources:

1.        Registration fee which is about US$3 per parcel.

2.        Right Acquisition Tax on Land and Building (BPHTB). Act. No. 21 o f 1997 introduced 5 percent
          buyers tax which applies on all derivative registrations and on first time registration o f State land.
          The first Rp.30,000,000 is exempted from tax up to 2001, This exemption figure will be increased
          by Rp.5 million every subsequent 5 years.          Based on the data supplied by BPN, first time
          registration o f State land represents about 20 percent o f all registrations; and

3.        Payment o f income tax on transfer o f right on landbuilding (5 percent sellers tax, Government
          Regulation No. 48/1994). Any subsequent sales of systematic registration titles should be included
          as these taxes would not have beencollected had the project not commenced.

Thefinancial costs to the government are the all project costs and the loan interest costs (about 4 percent)
and the Government's future management costs associated with each title issued by the project (2 percent
o f total project cost). The reason why the loan interest costs are included is that the govemment will pay
interests on loans that support the project and this is a direct additional cost o f the project. Should the
interest costs be excluded, the FRR will be 17 percent.

Methodology and major assumptions

All calculations are based on the estimated project costs of LMPDP and information of actual benefits
associated with the L A P I(1994-2001).         For the sake o f simplicity, the actual benefits (revenues) are
extrapolated over a 35 year period and no further assumptions are made regarding any expected changes or
enhancements to these current actual benefits. The capital discount factor is 0.1, Derivative registrations
(turnover rate) is 1 percent for year 2-6, 3 percent for year 7-20, and 5 percent for year 21-35. These
figures are based on the observations made by TA consultants during the implementation o f L A P Iand
have been confirmed through discussions with the National LandAgency.




                                                       - 44 -

Results

The results are shown in Table 1 o f the Annex. The fmancial rate of return (FRR) is 16 percent and the
NPV is US$107.5 million. The FRR is financially sensitive to the changes of the base assumption of
derivate registration. Should the assumption be changed to 5 percent turnover rate for all periods, then the
FRR will increase to about 21 percent.

The fiscal impact o f the proposed project should be neutral inthe short-run given that only about a quarter
of the total project cost will be financed by the Government. Inthe long-run, it is expected that the fiscal
impact o f the proposedproject will be very positive as shown by the relatively high FRR.




                                                    - 45 -

Table 1 Calculationof FinancialRateof Return(unit: US$ Million)
Year          costs                                   Benefits
                                 BPHTB            BPHTB         Seller     Net
                            First Registration  Derivative       Tax     Benefits
 1             6.31               0.39                                   -5.92
 2            16.31               1.18             0.23         0.23     -14.67
 3            25.31               1.88             0.67          0.67    -22.08
 4            23.31               1.73              1.09         1.09    -19.42
 5            18.31               1.33              1.64         1.64    -13.71
 6            13.91                                2.67          2.67     -7.59
 7             3.23                                3.74          3.74     4.25
 8             3.23                                4.88          4.88     6.54
 9             3.23                                6.08          6.08     8.93
 10            3.23                                4.62          4.62     6.01
 11            3.23                                5.94          5.94     8.65
 12            3.23                                7.32          7.32     11.40
 13            3.23                                 8.77         8.77     14.32
 14            3.23                                10.30        10.30     17.37
 15            3.23                                 9.19         9.19     15.14
 16            3.23                                10.86        10.86     18.50
 17            3.23                                12.62        12.62     22.02
 18            3.23                                14.48        14.48     25.73
 19            3.23                                22.85        22.85     42.48
 20            3.23                                26.26        26.26     49.30
 21            1.91                                29.82        29.82     57.74
 22            1.91                                33.58        33.58     65.24
 23            1.91                                37.52        37.52     73.14
 24            1.91                                37.14        37.14     72.37
 25            1.91                                41.48        41.48     81.06
 26            1.91                                46.05        46.05     90.19
 27            1.91                                50.85        50.85     99.78
 28            1.91                                55.88        55.88    109.85
 29            1.91                                56.64        56.64    111.36
 30            1.91                                62.18        62.18    122.44
 31            1.91                                68.01         68.01   134.10
 32            1.91                                74.11         74.11    146.31
 33             1.91                               80.78         80.78    159.65
 34             1.91                               88.05         88.05    174.19
 35             1.91                               95.98         95.98    190.04
     NPV=US$I07.5 million
     FRR=16%




                                      - 46 -

                                 Annex 5: Financial Summary
               INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy Development Project
                                       Years Ending
                                  January 1 - December  31
                                                   IMPLEMENTATION PERI0D
                          I Year1  I year2    I  Year3   I year4   j Yearti  I Year6    1 Year 7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs             2.0      15.6         17.5     17.5      15.9      10.1        0.0
 Recurrent Costs               0.7       1.6          1.8      1.8       1.7       1.4        0.0
Total Project Costs            2.7      17.2         19.3     19.3      17.6      11.5        0.0
             Front-end fee     0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing                2.7      17.2         19.3     19.3      17.6      11.5        0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                    2.4      13.5         15.0     14.0      12.7      8.2         0.0
   Government                  0.3       3.7          4.3      5.3       4.9      3.3         0.0
       Central                 0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0
       Provincial              0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0
   Co-financiers               0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries        0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0
Other                          0.0       0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing        2.7       17.2        19.3     19.3      17.6     11.5         0.0
Main assumptions:




                                              - 47 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
              INDONESIA:Land Management and Policy Development Project

Procurement

1.       Procurement Responsibilities. Procurement under the project will be carried out by Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) located in three levels o f government organizations, i.e at: (a) national
government level (within BPN, BAPPENAS and Directorate General o f Regional Autonomy, MOHA); (b)
provincial level (Kanwil BPN); and (c) kabupaten level (District Land Offices). BAPPENAS will be
responsible for the procurement under Component 1; BPN, Kanwil BPN and District Land Offices will be
responsible for procurement under Components 2, 3 and 4; and MOHA will be responsible for procurement
under Component 5 o f the Project.

2.       Procurement Categories. Expenditures under the Project will consist o f the following categories:
Civil Works (US$1.45 million); Service Contracts related to works for mapping, cadastral surveys and
data conversion for land adjudication (US$27.64 million); Goods including vehicles (US$4.5 1 million);
Consultants' Services and Studies (US$7.62 million); Training and Workshops (US$4.90 million); Land
Registration costs (US$32.52 million); and Incremental Operating Cost (US$8.97 million).

                                       Procurement Procedures

3.       Procurement o f goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and
August 1996, September 1997, January 1999, and November 2003). Procurement of consultant services
will be done in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines on Selection and Employment of
Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999, May 2002,
and November 2003). Any procurement procedure not financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank may be
carried out inaccordance with the public procurement regulations.

                                    Standard Bidding Documents

4.       The World Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and works will be used for ICB. Model
bidding documents for N C B for Procurement o f Goods, Procurement o f Small Civil Works, a quotation
solicitation form, and contract forms for small civil works and goods will be developed and approved by the
Bank for procurement under the project. For consulting services, the Bank's standard Request for
Proposals, sample evaluation report, and standard contract forms will be used. The development o f
standard documentation will be completed prior to the issuance o f the Project Management Manual and
should be included therein.
                                              Advertisement

5.       A draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and submitted to the Bank.The Bank
will arrange for its publication in Development Business online (UNDB online) and in the Development
Gateway Market (DGMarket), announcing all procurement on the basis o f International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and major consulting services to be procured under the project. Invitation for Expression o f
Interests for all consulting assignments at and above US$200,000 equivalent per contract will also be
published in UNDB online and in DGMarket. Specific Procurement Notices for specific contracts and
contracts with consultant firms will be advertised in the national gazette or in at least one newspaper o f
national or regional circulation in the country, in accordance with the Bank's letter to the government dated


                                                     - 48 -

September 23, 2002, or in an electronic portal with free access. The use o f Development Gateway
(electronic advertising) and arrangements for it will be discussed prior to the project launch workshop.

Summary of Procurement Capacity Assessment of Implementing Agencies and SuggestedMeasures
for Strengthening

6.      Procurement Capacity Assessment Report (PCAR). In accordance with the Bank's Operational
Policies and Procedures (OPBP 11.00), an assessment o f the procurement capacity o f the PIUs at the
central, provincial and kabupaten levels was conducted prior to the appraisal mission. The assessment
covers legal aspects and procurement practices, procurement cycle management, support and control
system, record keeping, staffing, and general procurement environment. The assessment also covers overall
riskassessment and proposes an action planto strengthenthe PIUs' capacity.

7.        The risk assessment has come out with the overall rating as "high". The central and provincial
level PIUs are rated as "average risk" and kabupaten level PIUs ,the risk can be rated as "very high". This
different risk level is translated into action plans to strengthen the PIUs' capacity. The reasons for such
assessment results are as follows:

         The procurement will be carried out in central, provincial and kabupaten level PIUs. The bulk o f
         procurement activities (systematic land adjudication) will be in the project provinces and
         kabupatens.
         Although the central level and some provincial level PIUs have some experience with
         Bank-financed projects, some o f the staff assigned or to be assigned to these PIUs do not
         necessarily have adequate experience with Bank-financed projects.
         Many o f the government staff in the kabupatens have almost no experience o f Bank-financed
         projects, nor do they have adequate experience o f handling contracts larger than US$100,000.
         The Presidential Decree (Keppres 8012003) which is the main guidelines for public procurement is
         adequately understood by procurement staff at all levels, however, its explanation do not have
         detailed and handy procedures that can be usedeasily by procurement staff in the field. Ifthere are
         additional guidelines produced by Governors or Bupatis, they only consists o f general guidance and
         lack o f details and no provision o f procurement ethics.
         There are some disparities between the Presidential Decree (Keppres 8012003) apd the Bank's
         Guidelines.
         Ingeneral, there is limitedstaff available with sufficient procurement capacity.
         The general procurement environment is unhealthy and collusive practices have been reported in
         past projects. Sanctions against such practices were not enforced adequately and have encouraged
         further collusion.
         The new decentralization laws and the increasing power o f Kabupaten government will put more
         pressure on PIUs' staff to favor local suppliers or contractors.

Proposedactions to reduceor mitigate the risks

8.       Procurement Capacity Enhancement. All Project Implementing Units (PIUs) should include in
their team a procurement staff with a minimum o f two years' experience in the procurements o f goods,
works and consultant selection.       Since the mentioned staff may not be available, the central project
management unit (MSUP at BPN) will engage a procurement specialist who have adequate experience in
Bank financed projects to assist all PIUs at least for the first one year o f project implementation, untilall
proposed procurement training for PIU's staff has been successfully completed.


                                                      - 49 -

9.      Procurement Training. Procurement training for trainers (TOT) will be conducted and completed
before the loan becomes effective. The BPN, BAPPENAS and MOHA will jointly arrange the events,
while the Bank will provide inputs for training materials. The participants will come from central and
pre-selected staff from provincial govemment offices. The selected trainees will be assigned as trainers
duringthe course of project implementation. The training will be providedto PIU staff inproject provinces
and kabupatens by the trainers mentioned above, with assistance from implementation management
consultants, if needed. The trainings will consist o f overall procurement aspects for small contracts,
preparation o f procurement plan and procurement ethics. Furthermore, the P M M will provide very detailed
guidelines on procurement inbahasa Indonesia, and offer best practices.

10.     Enhanced planning and controlling mechanisms.

        A draft general procurement planfor the project implementation period and for the first-18 months
        detailed procurement plan will be prepared by all PIUs, consolidated by central P M U to be
        reviewed and approved by the Bank before loan negotiations.
        All PIUs will update their LMPDP procurement plansas mentioned above every year covering the
        next 18 months o f project implementation and send it to the Bank through central P M U for its
        review and approval.
        Clarification on N C B procedures, as detailed inAppendix 1, to be included inthe draft Loan
        Agreement.
        Contracts costing more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract will be carried out by provincial
        andor central level PIUs.
        Prior review thresholds are set up for procurement o f works, goods and consultant services in
        accordance with the risk levels.
        Procurement Manual acceptable to the Bank shall be preparedbefore negotiation, consisting of
        procedures to be followed by all PIUs. The procurement section inthe manual will include:

        (i)       Procurement methods and procedures that reflect the clarifications/modificationson N C B
                  and NS procedures acceptable to the Bank;
        (ii) TORofprocurementspecialist'officers;
        (iii)     Standard bidding documents for ICB, N C B and RFP, adopted from Bank's standard
                  documents;
        (iv)      Reporting requirements complete with standard reporting forms in line with the FMR;
        (v)       Guidelines on project documentation and filing system inorder to get easy access, from
                  time to time, to project files; and
        (vi)      Project Organization and Staffing. The draft organization structure should be prepared
                  immediately, discussed during appraisal andmade available before negotiation. The
                  Project ManagemenflmplementationUnits (PMUPIUs) incentral as well as inregions,
                  shall be         established and key staff assigned before negotiations.

                                      Procurement Arrangements

11.     Procurement Methods (Table A). Project cost by categories and procurement methods are
summarized in Table A. The section on methods for procurement o f consultant services are summarized in
Table A.1, and the thresholds for each category are given inTable B.




                                                     - 50 -

(a)       Procurement of Goods (US$4.51 million). Goods, including equipment and materials (except
vehicles) to be financed under the project will be procured under the following procedures:

Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB): Procurement o f goods with a value at or above US$200,000
equivalent per contract shall be carried out through ICB procedures.

National Competitive Bidding (NCB): Procurement o f goods between US$25,000 and US$200,000
equivalent per contract with an aggregated amount o f US$740,000 shall follow N C B procedures
acceptable to the Bank, and any interested foreign suppliers shall be allowed to participate.

National Shopping (NS): Procurement o f simple office equipment with the estimated cost is less than
US$25,000 equivalent per contract with the aggregated amount o f US$1,830,000 will be carried out
through N S procedures. Most o f this procurement will be carried out at district land offices (over 60
districts in 10 provinces).

Vehicles estimated to cost US$1.31 million will be financed 100 percent by GOI.

(b)
(rangingProcurement    of Civil Works (US$I.45 million). Since the construction works are small contracts
           from US$lOO,OOO to a maximum o f US$975,000 per contract), all construction works for land
offices and training center will follow NCB procedures. A model bidding document for N C B which has
been developed under other project and approved by the Bank will be used. Procurement shall follow the
Bank's clarification on the N C B procedures described inthe Loan Agreement.

(c)       Contract Services related to Works for      Cadastral Surveys, Mapping and Data Conversion
(US$27.64 million). There will be contracting o f many local small survey teams and mapping. The
procurement procedure for this will be similar to procurement o f small works inwhich N C B procedure will
be used. To attract foreign firms to participate in these works, some o f the contracts will be packaged as
such to be big enough (US$200,000 or more per contract) which will be carried out under I C B procedure.

(d)       Consultant Services and Studies (US$7.62 million).

Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS): Selection for consulting services with f m s for the national
technical assistance under Component 4 and for the training and institutional capacity building under
Component 5 o f the Project with an aggregated amount o f US$2,280,000 will follow the QCBS method.
The weight factor used for financial proposal in combined-evaluation o f technical and financial proposal
should be not be less than 20 percent and not more than 30 percent. The latter will apply to simple
assignments with Bank's prior concurrence.

Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ): CQ method may be used to select consultant services
for monitoring o f BPN service standards under Component 2 o f the Project with a cost o f less than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract, with an aggregated amount o f US$110,000.

Single-Source Selection (SSS): For specific activities and studies such as engaging NGOs or academic
institutions who will be involved in community participation and carrying out social/socio-economic
base-line and impact assessments under Component 3 o f the Project with an aggregated amount o f US$
210,000 when there is only one institution is qualified or has the exceptional relevant experience with a
cost o f less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be procured under SSS procedures with Bank's
prior approval.



                                                     -51 -

Individual Consultants (IC): Individual consultants needed during project implementation for certain
activities such as for development o f land policies and studies under Component 1, technical assistance for
institutional capacity building under Component 2, and short term specialists in other components which
the experience and qualifications o f the individual are paramount requirement and teams o f personnel and
additional outside (home office) professional support are not required will be selected on a competitive
basis, based on their qualifications for the assignment, following the provisions in paragraph 5.1 to 5.3 o f
the Bank's Guidelines.The aggregated amount for the individual consultants is about US$5,020,000.

Inexceptional cases where sole source selection isjustified such as for continuation of previous work and
very small, the Borrower may select the consultants on a sole source basis with the Bank's prior approval.

(e)      Others.

Incremental Operating Cost (US$8.97 million): This cost is an incrementalladditional cost to the agency
recurrenthoutine budget as a consequence o f the project implementation. I t covers the costs of the
incremental cost o f project staff for supervision and implementation guidance, coordination, surveillance
and monitoring activities, collection o f information and reporting. Eligible expenditures will consist o f
travel and per diems, meeting facilities, stipends (not staff salary/honorarium), office supplies and
consumables, and communication. These expenditures will follow the government procedures and will be
audited inaccordance with the LoanAgreement.

Training and Workshops (US$ 4.90 million): Training and workshops are an integral parts o f the project's
institutional capacity building component. Most o f the training program will be conducted in the country
and in the form o f on the job training. Costs o f training and workshop materials, renting o f facilities,
transportation, meal and accommodation, and tuition fees excluding any consultant costs, will be funded
through the Statement o f Expenditures (SOE) using Government procedures, audited and acceptable to the
Bank.

Land Titling Registration Costs (US$32.52 million): About US$32.52 million would be allocated to cover
the costs relatedto landtitle adjudication, production, registration, and distribution of landcertificates. The
costs will cover transport and travel costs o f adjudication teams, cost o f contract staff/personnel, material
and miscellaneous supplies such as stationery and computer consumables used for mapping and title
production, and all other costs incurred by the adjudication and registration teams. Costs o f title
registration would be funded through the Statement o f Expenditures (SOE) using Government procedures,
audited and acceptable to the Bank.

 12.     Prior Review Thresholds (Table B). The thresholds for Bank's prior review are summarized in
Table B.

Goods. Contracts for goods with an estimated contract value at or above US$lOO,OOO equivalent per
contract will be subject to prior review.

Civil Works. Contracts for civil works with an estimated value at or above US$200,000 equivalent per
contract will be subject to prior review.

Consulting Services. Contracts for Consulting Firms valued at or above US$lOO,OOO equivalent and
contracts for Individual Consultants valued at or above US$50,000 equivalent will be subject to prior
review.



                                                     - 52 -

Contract Services related to works for mapping, cadastral surveys and data conversion. Contracts valued at
or above US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract will be subject to prior review.

In addition, the first contract for NCB, NS and consulting services under the prior review thresholds
implemented by each PIU will be subject to Bankprior review.

All contracts awarded based on single source selection will be subject to Bank prior review.

Frequency of procurementsupervisions proposed.

13.      Since the overall procurement risk assessment is rated as "high", supervision mission is scheduled
at least once every six months, including special procurement supervision for post-review/audits once a
year.

14.     Procurement Plan. Based on the annual budgeting, the P M U (MSUP) shall prepare Annual Work
Plan (AWP) in September/October each year for the following year. The AWP will be discussed and
agreed with the PIUs and based on the AWP, each PIU will prepare a detailed Procurement Plan and
submit it to PMU for consolidation. The consolidated procurement plan will be reviewed and approved
annually by Bank's project team and shall be monitored and implemented in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines and the project legal agreement. Should there be a needto change the procurement method or the
aggregated amount for a particular method, the Borrower shall seek the Bank's prior approval.




                                                   - 53 -

 Procurementmethods (Table A)

                         Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                           (US$ million equivalent)


                                                          Procurement Method'
     Expenditure Category                   ICB                 NCB             Othe:              N.B.F.        Total Cost
I.Works                                    0.00                 1.45              0.00               0.00           1.45
                                          (0.00)               (1.01)            (0.00)            (0.00)         (1.Ol)
2. Goods                                   0.63                 0.74               1.83              1.31          4.51
                                          (0.50)               (0.59)            (1.47)            (0.00)         (2.56)
3. Services                                0.00                 0.00              7.62               0.00           7.62
Consultant Services and Studies           (0.00)               (0.00)            (7.62)            (0.00)         (7.62)
4. Codastral Survey and                     1.25               26.40              0.00               0.00          27.64
Mapping Contracts
                                          (1.OO)              (21.12)            (0.00)             (0.00)        (22.12)
5. Training and Workshops                   0.00                0.00              4.90               0.00           4.90
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)             (4.90)            (0.00)         (4.90)
6. Land Registration Cost                   0.00                0.00              32.52              0.00          32.52
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (22.77)            (0.00)        (22.77)
7. Incremental Operating Cost             00.00                00.00               8.98              0.00           8.98
                                          (0.*00)             (00.00)             (4.62)      I     (0.00)     1   (4.62)

    Total                                   1.87               28.59              55.85               1.31         87.62
                                          (1SO)                (22.73)           (41.38)      1     (0.00)     1I  (65.6)  I

 contingencies.

 21 Includes goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, land registration cost, training, and
 incremental operating costs.




                                                      -54 -

                       Table AI : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                         (US$ million equivalent)


   Consultant Services




                            (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)      (5.02)       (0.00)      (5.02)
                    Total 1 2.28       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.11        5.34         0.00        7.62
                            (2.28) I  (0.00)  I  (0.00)  I(0.00)   I(0.11)    1 (5.34)    I  (0.00)  I   (7.62)  I
  Including contingencies

           Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                 Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Single
                 Sources Selection, and Commercial Practices, etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan/Credit.

Prior review thresholds (Table B)

Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review 1

       Expenditure      ContractValue        ProcurementMethod             Contractssubject to
        Category           Thresholds                                          Prior Review              i
                        (US$thousands)                                         (US$million)
1.    Works               200orabove      1I          NCB                         Yes (3.6)
                           Below 200                  NCB              No, except for theonly first
                                                                           contract by PIUeach
                                                                            implementing unit
2.    Goods (except      200 and above                ICB                         Yes (0.9)
      vehicles)        Between 100 to 200             NCB                         Yes (0.2)
                        BetweenAbove25
                            and 100                   NCB               No, except for the only first
                                                                            contract by PIU each
                            Below 25                                         implementing unit
                                                       NS
                                                                       0, except for the first contractb)
                                                                                     PIU




                                                    - 55 -

      Consultant               Firms;
      services and          100 and above                 QCBS                           Yes (0.9)
      studies                 Below 100                    CQ                 No, except the TORs and the
                                                                                  first contract by PIU
                                   n.a            Single Source Selection               Yes (0.21)
                             Individual:
                             50 and above                  IC                            Yes (4.6)
                              Below 50                                       No, except TORs and the first
                                                                                     contractbv PIU
      Contract                  Firms:
      services related      200 and above               ICBQCBS                          Yes (1.3)
      to works for        5etween 100 and 200              NCB                           Yes (1.2)
      mapping,                Below 100
      surveys & data                                       NCB             bo, except   for the first contract b
      conversion
      Training &                   All                    Other
      workshops
      Land                         All                    Other                              No
      registration                              I   (SOE mechanism)
      costs                                                                I

      Incremental                  All                    Other                              No
      operating costs                               (SOE mechanism)


Total value o f contracts subject to prior review:     US$18.9 million
Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment:                    High
Frequencyof procurement supervisions proposed:         Once every 6 months (includes special
                                                       procurement supervision
                                                       for post-review/audits once per year)

                                                                                                           Appendix 1

      Clarificationon NCB of Keppres 80/2003 procedures to be included in the Loan Agreement.


The procedures to be followed for NCB shall be those set forth in Presidential Decree (Keppres 8012003)
o f the Republic o f Indonesia with the clarifications and modifications described inthe following paragraphs
required for compliance with the provisions o f the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" (the Guidelines). These clarifications are included in the Procurement Section of the Loan
Agreement.

Registration

(a)      Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.
(b)      Where registration is required, bidders: (i)shall be allowed a reasonable time to complete the
         registration process, and (ii)shall not be denied registration for reasons not related to their
         capability and resources to successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through
         post-qualification.




                                                         - 56 -

Pre-qualification

Pre-qualification shall not be required under this project. However, for large or complex works, with
Bank's prior concurrence, pre-qualification may be allowed and should be in accordance with the
following:

(a)     Eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-qualification; and
(b)     Invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national
        daily newspaper for a minimum o f 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission o f
        pre-qualification applications.

Joint Ventures

A bidder declared as the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to form ajoint venture or
to sub-contract part o f the work or part o f the supply o f goods as a condition o f award o f the contract.

Preferences

(a)     No preference of any kindshall be given to national bidders; and
(b)     Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial and local regulations which restrict national
        competitive bidding procedures to a class o f contractors or a class o f suppliers shall not be
        applicable to procurement procedures financed under the Loan.

Advertising

(a)     Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper
        allowing a minimumo f 30 days for the preparation and submission o f bids and allowing potential
        biddersto purchase bidding documents upto 24 hours prior to the deadline for submission o fbids;
(b)     Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the
        required fee;
(c)     Bidders domiciled outside the areddistricVprovince o f the unit responsible for procurement shall be
        allowed to participate regardless o f the estimated value o f the contract; and
(d)     Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a foreign
        fmdeclaredasthelowestevaluatedbiddershallbegivenareasonableopportunitytoregister.

Bid Security

Bid security, at the bidders' option, shall be in the form o f a letter of credit or bank guarantee from a
reputable bank.

 Bid Opening and Evaluation

(a)     Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission o f bids, and if bids
        are invited intwo envelopes, both envelopes (technical and price) shall be opened at the same time;
(b)     Evaluation o f bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria declared in the bidding
        documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluatedbidder;
(c)     Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis o f minor, non-substantial
        deviations; and
(d)     No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis o f a comparison with the owner's estimate and
        budget ceiling without the Bank's prior concurrence.



                                                      - 57 -

Rejection of Bids

(a)     All bids shall not be rejected andnew bids solicited without the Bank's prior concurrence; and
(b)      When the number of responsive bids is less thanthree, re-bidding shall not be carried out without
         the Bank's prior concurrence.

Supplemental letter

The supplemental letter should reserve the right to require that incontracts financed by the Bank under this
project, a provision will be included requiring suppliers and contractors to permit the Bank to inspect their
accounts and records relating to performance o f the contract and to have them audited by auditors
appointed by the Bank.




                                                    - 58 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy Development Project

FinancialManagement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
 OverallSummary

1.       The Financial Management assessment for this project has been completed in August 2003,
including an assessment o f financial management capacity at the implementing agencies as well as an
analysis o f financial management risks. Taking into account the results o f this assessment, the financial
management arrangements as outlined herein are considered acceptable for the purposes o f the project,
subject to the satisfactory completion o f the next steps and action plan summarized below.

2.       The lead Executing Agency for this project will be the National Land Agency (BPN), which will
manage 88 percent o f the total project expenditure on the components related to accelerated land titling and
land information system. The National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) and Ministry o f Home Affairs
(MOHA) will separately manage the balance expenditure on Land Policy and Regulatory Framework and
Support to Local Government. A national Steering Committee will be formed with representation from all
related agencies, including an NGO. Given the nature o f components inthe project, it is anticipated that a
large proportion o f the project activities and expenditure will be managed by BPN's decentralized land
offices in some 91 regional and provincial locations across the country. Although BPN as the lead
implementing agency has had prior experience in managing Bank financed projects, it is anticipated that
weak implementation and financial management capacity in the regions will impose special challenges.
Based on these factors, financial management risks inherent in the project entity have been rated as
substantial.

3.       An analysis of project specific risks indicates that substantial risks may arise from several features.
The geographically diverse spread o f the project and inherently weak and variable financial management
capacity in the regions imposes substantial risks on financial accounting and reporting,. This is sought to
be mitigated by concentrating project accounting activities at the 12 participating provincial offices rather
than 91 locations and the deployment of financial management consultants to assist BPN to design and
install a computerized financial accounting system at all participating B P N office. Such a system would
meet all financial reporting requirements o f the project as specified in the Financial Management Manual,
and will be utilized to the extent possible the existing accounting systems inuse at B P N and their offices.
The consultants will also be tasked with training BPN staff in the operation o f the project financial
management system. Payment validation systems have traditionally been weak inBank financed projects in
Indonesia. Therefore more comprehensive         validation procedures, including community disclosure and
oversight mechanisms where applicable, will be prescribed and documented in a Project Management
Manual.

4.       Following the recent completion o f a peer review o f BPKP (such a review o f BPK has not yet been
done) it is proposed that the Bank accept BPKP as project auditors. Audit coverage presents moderate risks
arising from the fact that under recent Government regulations the external audit agency (BPK) has
jurisdiction over regional public expenditure, not BPKP. Some regions may therefore resist audit by BPKP.
To overcome this clear instructions on this will be sought from central and regional authorities as a
condition for effectiveness.




                                                      - 59 -

        Internal controls and risk analysis

        5.      A summary of the main financial management risks is as follows.

           Risks                 I Assessment                 Summary Comments
  A. Inherent Country                                 A detailed risk assessment is available in project documents.
     Risks
  Budgetary procedures              Substantial       CFAA diagnostic completed in2001 rated country control
                                                      environment as weak. White Paper has beenprepared by
                                                      Government inMay 2002 to address reform issues. New State
                                                      Finance law has been passed, but the laws on Treasury and
                                                      Audit are yet to be legislated. Minimal progress in
                                                      implementation o f CFAA recommendations.

  Public Sector Accounting          Substantial       National accounting continues on a single entry and cash basis
                                                      with a partially computerized system. Public expenditure
                                                      accounting standards not yet issued, though an Accounting
                                                      Standards Board has been constituted and a long term strategy
                                 I                    to move towards accrual accounting is being prepared.
  Auditing Arrangements             Moderate          BPK now has legal mandate for extemal audit o f regional
                                                      governments, though coverage is currently very limited.
                                                      Institutional Development Plan for BPK under slow
                                                      implementation. Audit reports are not publicly disclosed.




                                                      Lead implementing agency has prior experience inmanaging
     Organization                                     Bank projects. But risks arise from wide geographical spread of
                                                      PIUs and poor legacy o f BPN. Risk mitigation possible through
                                                      clear documentation o f oDeratine authorities and mocedures.
  2. Accounting capacity,        I  Substantial       Generally poor accounting capacity inthe provincial and
     staffing.                   I                    regional offices. Mitigationthrough use o f project financial
                                                      management consultants.
  3. Funds Flow                     Moderate          Risks may arise from inherent weaknesses and delays inbudget
                                                      approval systems o f GOI.
  4. Audit arrangements             Moderate          Risksarise from BPNis audited by intemal and external audit
                                                      agencies o f GOI.
  5. Information systems.           Substantial       Risks arise from manual accounting systems in government
     Reporting and                                    agencies.
                                                      I
  1. Organization Structure      I
~~                                                    Large no. (91) o f potential accounting locations inregions;
                                                      generally poor accounting capacity.
  2. Completion o f project works  Moderate           Titling surveys, adjudication and soft expenditures on training
     & services                                       and TA are generally vulnerable to collusion and misuse.
                                                      Mitigation through oversight by community members and
                                 I                    public disclosure mechanisms proposed.


                                                       - 60 -

3.Receipt o f project goods        Low                   Procurement o f goods relatively small, mostly computers and
                                                         proprietary equipment.
4. Payment validation              Substantial           Traditionally a weak area inBank financed projects, hrther
                                                         corroborated by audit reports o f previous L A P i project. To
                                                         mitigate risks, additional documentation and internal control
                                                         requirements will be prescribed inProject Management Manual
                                                         to enhance documentary trails.
5. Disbursement and fund flows     Substantial           Risks arise from use of geographically dispersed offices o f
                                                         KPKN for disbursements, which could leadto vulnerability in
                                                         overall reconciliation o f Special Accounts. Responsibility for
                                                         Special Account management to be decentralized to BPN.
                                                         Transaction based SOE disbursements proposed initially, FMR
                                                         based disbursement to be considered later.
                                                                                                     ~



6. Project monitoring and          Substantial           Geographical spread o f spending units under a common Budget
   reporting                                             and chronic delays in approval o f DIP warrants could prove a
                                                         hurdleto smooth implementation.
                                                         FMR reoortincr will be introduced from inceotion.
                                                         Geographical spread o f accounting locations and poor capacity
                                                         increase risks. Use o f trained FM consultants proposed.
                                                         Computerized accounting to be concentrated inselected 12
                                                         provinces.
8. Extemal audits                  Moderate              Delays inaudit reports have been experienced inthe past
                                                         projects. Jurisdiction of BPKP for audit inregions can become
                                                         contentious.
Overall ProjectSpecific Risks   I Substantial



      Project Financial Management arrangements.

      6.        Organization. For purposes o f financial management the following project organization is
      proposed:

      Payments processing. Payment requests (SPP) will be prepared and validated by project treasurers at each
      participating regional BPN Land Office. A total o f 91 such offices are likely to be involved in project
      financial management, with respect to contract management and maintenance o f financial controls. A team
       o f project managers (Pimpros) and project treasurers will be formally appointed at each land officePIU.
      Their capacity is assessed to be generally weak, based on experience with other projects and analysis o f
       findings o f the Implementation Completion Report Report No. 23684 dated 19 June 2002. o f the preceding
      Land Administration Project 1. For activities undertaken at Bappenas and Ministry o f Home Affairs,
      payments will be processed at the respective Project Implementing Units (PIUs).




                                                          - 61 -

Accounting. The geographical spread o f project implementation BPN Land offices will likely impose a
strain on project financial accounting, especially at the regional level, and hence could disrupt preparation
o f acceptable financial statements. Given capacity constraints expected in the regional offices, financial
accounting will done at 12 participating provincial BPN offices instead o f regions, for which the source
documents will be collected from regional Land offices and reconciled monthly or quarterly with records o f
KPKN. Detailed arrangements for this will be incorporated in the project management manual. A local
accounting firm will be hired as financial management consultants at provincial and central project offices,
who will be tasked with: (i)   designing and installing computerized accounting system capable o f ensuring
that project financial accounting reports and FMRs are prepared accurately and at regular quarterly
intervals at each Province, analyzed, and consolidated at central level; and (ii)     building the capacity o f
government staff to operate the system and perform these functions.

7.       Accounting policies and procedures. Project management and implementing units will be
required to maintain financial accounting for all project resources and expenditure. Accounting for all
project resources will be cash basis, in line with government accounting standards. The accounting reports
currently prepared by B P N for internal financial reporting to the Government do not include reporting for
project expenditure per activities or components, and hence would not be suitable for the reporting needs
for this project from the point o f view o f effective project and financial management. The agreed formats
for project financial statements will include accounting for categories as specified inthe Loan Agreement as
well as components as stated in the PAD. Procedures will be agreed with project management to reconcile
project financial accounts with financial reporting to local and central governments on a quarterly basis.
The Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be required from the Project on a quarterly basis, initially
for reporting purposes only, and subsequently to support disbursements also. These reports will comprise
information on procurement activity, implementation progress, sources and uses o f funds and a forecast o f
funds required for the project. Detailed formats for these will be agreed before negotiations. The first such
reports will be required to be submitted no later than 45 days after the end o f the first quarter after
effectiveness, and thereafter every quarter within 45 days o f the quarter-end.

2. Audit Arrangements

The national internal audit agency (BPKP) will be accepted as auditors for this project. Terms o f reference
for these audits will be agreed before negotiations, leading up to a single audit opinion on the project
financial statements, Statements o f Expenditure (SOE) and Special Account. Audit reports will be due 6
months after the end o f the project fiscal year. The detailed mechanisms for this will be agreed at
negotiations. Central directives would therefore be required to ensure that BPKP is provided unrestricted
access to all project activities for purposes o f audit.

3. DisbursementArrangements

1.       Fund flows for project expenditure will follow traditional Government budgeting and payment
mechanisms (DIPP). These will have to be included incentral budgets every year by each PIU. Each o f the
three central project agencies will budget for their share o f project expenditure respectively. Existing
government budgeting and payment mechanisms supplemented by the additional procedures on payment
verification will be used for both these disbursement streams. Payments from K P K N offices will be based
on duly approved payment requests (SPP) and contracts, and payment vouchers (SPMs) will be sent to
project offices for accounting purposes. Funds required for meeting transportation and other expenses of
adjudication teams in the regions will be channeled to separate sub-project bank accounts managed by
Project Managers on an imprest basis and accounted for to Central Treasury Offices (KPKN)on a monthly
basis.


                                                       - 62 -

2.       Detailed procedures for validation o f payments are being developed for each o f the following
activities and will be included inthe Project Management Manual:

    (a) Civil Works arranged directly by the BPN regional and provincial Land Offices and funded by
         both the Bank and GOI;
    (b) Technical Assistance andtraining activities procured and arranged at the central Ministerial level;
    (c) Training and technical assistance at decentralized levels inthe regions;
    (d) Adjudication and survey expenses that will be incurred and paid out inthe regional offices; and
    (e) Incremental operating expenses to be reimbursed under the project.

3.       Financial controls requirements for each o f these activities are different and payment validation
procedures will be based on the following principles to strengthen controls and reduce risks o f fraud and
corruption. These measures take into account experience gained in project supervision in other projects as
well as feedback from recent audit reports:

(9       Civil work completion will be verified and certified by independent committees appointed by
         Project managers for this purpose;

(ii) Alldecentralizedprojectactivitieswillbe,certifiedbycommunitymembers andpubliclydisclosed

         at the offices o f local administrative officials:

(iii) For technical assistanceandtraining activities the agency receiving trainingwillberequiredto
         certify satisfactory completion before training expenses are reimbursed to the provider. Direct
         evidence o f training imparted and travel incurred will be required before payments to contractors
         are authorized; and

(iv)     Land survey and adjudication expenses at land offices will be authorized underjoint authorities and
         work completion publicly disclosed. Land titling adjudication teams will include local community
         members. Completion o f work will be documented in BPN formal records and completion reports
         certified by team members and communities, evidenced with copies o f land certificates for
         expenditure accounting.

4.       Special Account management and replenishments.A special Account will be opened in Bank
Indonesiawith an authorized allocation o f US$ 6.00 million with    &initial allocation o f US$2.0 million till
commulative disbursement reaches US$10.0 million. Withdrawal from the Special Account will be based
on    payment orders by the KPKN offices once these have been approved by project managers.
Replenishments into the Special Account will be based on Withdrawal Applications supported by
Statements o f Expenditures (SOE). For payments in excess of prior review thresholds, "summary sheet"
procedures will be used. Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) based disbursements will be introduced
later in the project, after satisfactory introduction o f FMR reporting. The task o f preparation o f
Withdrawal Applications for replenishment o f the Special Account will be located at the CPMU at BPN,
subject to approval o f the Ministry o f Finance (Director General Budgets).




                                                        - 63 -

Allocation of loanlcredit proceeds (Table C)


                                 Amount of the      Amount of the      Percent of
                                Credit Allocated    Loan Allocated   Expenditures
                                 (Expressed in      (Expressed in   to be Financed
     Category                   SDR Eauivalent)        Dollars)

     Clivi1Works                    490,000             240,000    70 percent

     3oods                           860,000           1,200,000    100percent o f
                                                                    foreign
                                                                    expenditures, 100
                                                                    percent o f local
                                                                    expenditures
                                                                    (ex-factory cost)
                                                                    and 80 percent o f
                                                                    local
                                                                    expenditures for
                                                                    other items
                                                                    Drocured locallv

(3)  Zonsultants' services          2,300,000      1   3,550,000    100percent
     mdstudies

     Clontract Services for         6,470,000         11,650,000    80 percent
     Mapping and Cadastral
     Surveys


     rraining and                   1,480,000         2,480,000     100percent
     Workshops

     Land Registration              7,615,000         10,650,000   70 percent
     Zosts

     [ncremental Operating    1     2,725,000      I    550,000     100percent until
     Zosts                                                          December 31,
                                                                    2006 and 50
                                                                    percent thereafter

     Front -end Fee                                     328,000     Amount due
                                                                    under Section
                                                                    2.04 of the Loan
                                                                    Agreement

(9)        Unallocated                                2,152,000

-            TOTAL                  21,940,000        32,800,000




                                                - 64 -

Conclusion& Action Plan

The financial management arrangements as outlined herein are considered acceptable for the purposes of
the project, subject to the satisfactory completion o f the next steps and action plansummarized below:


Issue               Action required                                        Responsibility Due Date
1.Organizational Project financial management consultants to be             Project       Before loan
arrangements        selected based on TORSacceptable to the Bank.           Director      effectiveness

                    Qualified staff to be designated for project            Project       Before loan
                    financial accounting at BPN Head Office and at          Director      negotiations
                    each Provincial P M U expected to participate in
                    the first vear o f the uroiect.
2. Accounting       Formats for FinancialMonitoringReports                  CPMU,         Before
                    (FMRs) to be agreed with Bank.                          Project       negotiations
                                                                            Director

3. Audit            TOR for audit o f project financial statements to       CPMU,         Before
                    be agreed with Borrower.                                Project       negotiations
                                                                            Director
                    Mechanisms for public disclosure o f all audit                        Before
                    reports to be agreed with Bank.                         C P M U
                                                                            Project       negotiations
                                                                            Director

4. Project          Draft Project Management Manual, including              CPMU,         Before
Implementation      approved specific procedures for payment                Project       negotiations
                    validation and other financial management               Director
                    procedures to be ready by negotiations

                    Adoption o f the project management manual,                           Before
                    acceptable to the Bank                                        BPN     Effectiveness



Supervisionarrangements

Given the geographic spread and complexity o f the project, and its overall risk classification, financial
management supervision will be undertaken through annual supervision visits by Bank FM staff. Such
supervision work will include review o f internal controls surrounding land titling expenses in the regions.
Quarterly FMR reports will be reviewed regularly through the year where financial, procurement and
contract management issues will be reviewed. Risk ratings at appraisal will be refreshed annually following
supervision.




                                                     - 65 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
            INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy Development Project


Project Schedule                                          Planned                        Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)              12                             36
First Bank mission (identification)                    04/01/2000                      04/01/2000
ADDraisal mission departure                            09101/2001                      11/04/2003
Negotiations                                           0112112004                      03/03/2004
Planned Date of Effectiveness                           06/26/2004

Prepared by:
The Government of Indonesia. Project preparation was overseen by the LMPDP Coordinating Committee,
which includes EKUIN,Bappenas, BPN and MOHA.


Preparation assistance:
Landmark consulting financed by a JapanesePHRD Grant.

Bank staff who worked on the project included:
        Name                                            Speciality
Wael Zakout                             Task Team Leader
LiGuo                                   Economist
Sulistiowati Nainggolan                 Social Development
John Bruce                              Land Tenure Lawyer
Anthony Toft                            Legal Counsel
Rajiv Sondhi                            Financial Management
Wendy Schreiber Ayres                   Environment
Surajit Goswami                         Economist
Yogana Prasta                           Disbursement
Cecilia Belita                          Program Assistant
Cynthia Dharmajaya                      Program Assistant
Isono Sadoko                            Social Developmenflarticipation
Sumaryo Soemardjo                       Procurement
Gershon Feder                           Peer Reviewer
Cora Shaw                               Peer Reviewer
Steven Dice                             Peer Reviewer
Hilarion Bruneau                        Disbursement




                                                 - 66 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
             INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy Development Project


A. Project Implementation Plan


    Project Management Manual
    Procurement Manual
    Financial Management Manual


B. Bank Staff Assessments


    Project Concept Paper
    Working Paper on Decentralization of Land Affairs
    Procurement Assessment
    Financial ManagementAssessment

C. Other


    Project Preparation Report;
    Social Assessment of CertificationProgramunder the Land Administration
        Project (Joan Harjono, 1999);
    An Impact Evaluation of Systematic LandTitling under the LandAdministration Project (The SMERU
        ResearchTeam, May 2002); Legislative for Land (Pieter J. Evers, June 2001);
    Decentralizing Indonesia's Land Administration System:Are Local Gvoernmetns and Land
        Offices Ready? Evidence from 27 Districts (COMO Consultant);
    Agrarian Policy ReformDialogues (Sediono M.P. Tjondronegoro);
    2001 Final Report: Land Policy Reform Dialogues inIndonesia (Ekuin and WBOJ);
    Report and Views regarding Discussion on LandIssues Customary (Adat) Land Perspective and
        ComprehensiveApproach Towards Solutions of Land Disputes (Professor Arie S.
        Hutagalung, Nov. 2002);
    Land Policy inIndonesia: An Evaluation Paper for the World Bank (Professor Sediono
        Tjondronegoro, Feb. 2003);
    Report on Land Dialogue: Land Problemsinthe Context of Regional Autonomy (by GunawanWiradi
        and Endang Suhendar, Feb. 2003); and
    Good PracticesInitiatedby Local GovernmentsandNGOs (by Endang and Juni, Dec. 2002).

*Including electronic files




                                                 - 67 -

                                           Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                        INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy Development Project
                                                                    30-Mar-2004
                                                                                                                                Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                         and actual
                                                                          Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                            IBRD          IDA                   GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO59931     2003 ID-Water Resources & Irr.Sector Mgt Prog              45.00       25.00                   0.00    0.00    70.09         0.00      0.00
PO63913     2003 ID-Java-Bali Pwr Sector & Strength                    141.00       0.00                   0.00    0.00   141.00         0.00      0.00
P073772     2003 ID-Health Workforce 8 Services (PHP 3)                31.10       74.50                   0.00    0.00   110.73        -0.31      0.00
PO76271     2003 ID-PPITA                                               17.10       0.00                   0.00    0.00     16.01        1.24      0.00
PO79156     2003 ID Third Kecamatan Development Project               204.30       45.50                   0.00    0.00   249.36         0.04      0.00
PO72852     2002 ID-URBAN POVERTY II                                   29.50        70.50                  0.00    0.00    102.33       15.47      0.00
PO73970     2002 ID-GLOBAL DEV LEARNING (LIL)                           2.66        0.00                   0.00    0.00      2.13        1.13      0.00
PO40578     2002 ID-Eastem Indonesia Region Transport                 200.00        0.00                   0.00    0.00    107.76       18.76      0.00
PO49539     2001 ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH II                               63.20       40.00                   0.00    0.00    103.81       55.15      0.00
PO68949     2001 ID-LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT         - LIL           0.00        4.15                   0.00    0.00      2.35        1.09      0.00
PO40528     2001 ID-W. JAVA ENVMT MGMT                                  11.70       5.75                   0.00    0.00     15.13        8.93      0.00
PO66051     2001 ID-GEF-W. JAVA ENVT MGMT                               0.00        0.00                   2.54    0.00      2.72        5.56      0.00
PO73025     2001 ID-SECOND KECAMATAN DEVELOPMENT PROJ                 206.90       111.30                  0.00    0.00   223.73      -111.38      0.00
PO59930     2000 ID-DECNT. AGRICULTURAUFORESTRY EXT                     13.00        5.00                  0.00    0.00      5.80        2.65      0.00
PO59477     2000 ID-WSSLIC II                                           0.00        77.40                  0.00    0.00     62.58      -21.26      0.00
PO49545     2000 ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH I                                 0.00        38.00                  0.00    0.00     25.16        7.42      0.00
PO03967     1999 ID-FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                               44.70         0.00                  0.00    5.01     11.01       16.01      0.00
PO36049     1999 ID-EARLY CHILD DEVELOPMENT                             21.50        0.00                  0.00    10.65     2.78       13.42      13.42
PO64118     1999 ID-WATSAL                                            300.00         0.00                  0.00    0.00    150.00      150.00    150.00
PO40196     1999 ID-SUMATRA BASIC EDUCUATION                            54.50       20.10                  0.00    0.00     11.40        9.14      0.00
PO41895     1999 ID-SULAWESI BASIC EDUC.                                47.90       15.93                  0.00    0.00     20.13       20.88      0.00
PO55821     1999 ID-URBAN POVERTY                                        0.00      100.00                  0.00    0.00     20.57       20.03      19.48
PO03993     1998 ID-SUMATRA REG'L RDS                                 234.00         0.00                  0.00    50.00    21.72       64.72      -8.61
PO48715     1998 Indonesia IlDP
                           -                                            34.50        0.00                  0.00     6.50     2.55       11.05      2.55
PO36956     1998 ID-SAFE MOTHERHOOD                                     42.50        0.00                  0.00     9.15     3.76       12.92       6.92
PO39644     1996 ID-W. JAVA BASIC EDUCATION                            103.50        0.00                  0.00     3.76     2.21      -11.19       0.00
PO40061     1998 ID - BENGKULU    REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                  20.50        0.00                  0.00     5.00     8.77       13.77       8.77
PO40062     1998 ID CORAL REEF MGMT REHA                                                                                                            1.81
                    ~                                                    0.00        0.00                  4.10     0.00     0.53        0.42
PO36048     1998 ID - CORAL  REEF MGM REHAB                              6.90        0.00                  4.10     0.00     0.69        0.69       0.66
PO03967     1997 ID-CENTRAL INDONESIA SEC. EDU.                        104.00        0.00                  0.00     0.00    11.37       11.37       0.00
PO41894     1997 ID-SUMATRA SECONDARY EDUCATION                         96.00        0.00                  0.00     0.23     4.51        4.74       0.00
PO40195     1997 ID-QUALITY OF UNDERGRADUATE EDUC (QUE                  71.20        0.00                  0.00     9.89     7.55       17.44       7.55
PO04026     1997 ID-Railway Efficiency                                 105.00        0.00                  0.00    47.33     3.51       50.63      -6.56
PO36047     1997 ID-BALi URBAN INFRA.                                  110.00        0.00                  0.00    36.03     9.12       45.15       0.78
PO49051     1997 BEPEKA AUDIT MODERNIZATION PROJECT                     18.40        0.00                  0.00     1.77     2.42        4.19       3.29
PO37097     1996 ID-E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.                                    99.00        0.00                  0.00     3.90     8.13       12.04       0.00

                                                             Total:  2461.56       633.13               10.74    191.22   1543.50      452.12     200.03




                                                                        - 68 -

                                           INDONESIA
                                        STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                           Feb 29   - 2004
                                         InMillions USDollars

                                                           Committed                       Disbursed
                                                         IFC                             IFC
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi   Partic
1995              PT Astra Graphia                 0.00    2.00      0.00    0.00    0.00  2.00    0.00   0.00
2000102           PT Astra Otopart                 0.00     1.07     0.00    0.00    0.00   1.07   0.00   0.00
1997              PT Bakrie Pipe                 23.71     0.00      9.53    0.00   23.71  0.00    9.53   0.00
1993196           PT Bank NISP                     0.00    3.59      0.00    0.00    0.00  3.59    0.00   0.00
1991195199101103  PT Berlian                       5.95    17.58     0.00   12.24    5.95  14.24   0.00   12.24
1992196           PT Bina Danatama                 8.92    0.00      0.00   16.93    8.92  0.00    0.00   16.93
1995              PT Grahawita                     0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    5.00    0.00
1997              PT Indo-Rama                     5.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    4.88  0.00    0.00    0.00
2000              PT KIA Keramik                   1.65    0.00      0.00   53.49    1.65  0.00    0.00   53.49
1998              PT KIA Serpih                    4.50    0.00      0.00   49.50    4.50  0.00    0.00   49.50
1993              PT Kalimantan                   20.00    15.00     0.00    2.09   20.00  15.00   0.00    2.09
1996              PT Makro                         0.00    2.61      0.00    0.00    0.00   2.61   0.00    0.00
1993              PT Megaplast                     5.25    2.50      0.00    0.00    5.25   2.50   0.00    0.00
1997              PT Nusantara                     7.63    0.00      0.00    5.93    7.63   0.00   0.00    5.93
2001              PT Pramindo Ikat                 0.00     1.82     0.00    0.00    0.00   1.82  '0.00    0.00
1992195           PT Samudera                      0.00     5.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   5.00   0.00    0.00
1997              PT Sayap                         5.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   5.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
2003              PT Sigma                         0.00     3.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   3.00    0.00   0.00
2001              PT Viscose                      15.63     0.00     0.00    14.58  15.63   0.00    0.00  14.58
2003  '           PT Wings                         4.34     0.00     0.00     0.00   4.34   0.00    0.00   0.00
2003              SMM                             12.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   9.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1999              Sunson                          12.41     0.00     0.00     7.85  12.41   0.00    0.00   7.85
1985              Verdaine                        14.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  14.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002              BuanaBank                        0.00    15.36     0.00     0.00   0.00  15.36    0.00   0.00
1997              ITCF                            40.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1989              LYON-MLF-Ibis                    2.01     0.00     0.00     2.01   2.01   0.00    0.00   2.01
1997              Manulife                         0.00     0.32     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.32    0.00   0.00
1989194103        P.T. Gawi                       11.50     0.00     0.00    10.00   5.35   0.00    0.00   4.65
                  PT AdeS Alfindo                  0.00     6.98     0.00     0.00   0.00   6.98    0.00   0.00
                  PT Agro Muko                     0.00     2.20      0.00    0.00   0.00   2.20    0.00   0.00
                  PT Alumindo                     10.15     0.00      0.00    4.00  10.15   0.00    0.00   4.00
                  PT Astra                         0.00     1.29      0.00    0.00   0.00   1.29    0.00   0.00
                         Total Portfolio:        209.65    80.32     14.53  178.62  160.38  76.98   14.53 173.27



                                                       Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                            Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic
2004              Ecogreen                            0.03       0.00      0.00     0.00
2003              PT SPA                              0.01       0.00      0.00     0.00

                  Total Pending Commitment:           0.04       0.00      0.00     0.00




                                                 - 69 -

                                               Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                   INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy Development Project

                                                                   East
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                 Asia 8    Low-
                                                       Indonesia  Pacific income      Development dlamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                            211.7   1,838    2,495
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US5)                          710     950      430                   Life expectancy

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                           149.9   1,740    1,072                         -r

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population 1%)                                               1.3     1.o      1.9
Labor force (%)                                              2.2     1.2      2.3     GNI                                   Gross

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996.02)                                 per                                  primary
                                                                                      capita                              nroilment
Poverty(% of populationbelow nationalpoverty line)            16
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                      43      38       30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                              67     69       59                          1
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                      34     33       81
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                    25      15                   Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)           78     76       76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                           12      13      37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)       110      106      95            -Indonesia
    Male                                                    111      105      103                    Low-income group
    Female                                                  109      106      87
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                  1982     1992    2001     2002
GDP (US$ billions)                                 94.7    139.1                       Economic ratios'
                                                                   141.3    172.9
Gross domestic investmentiGDP'                     27.8     30.5    21.8     20.2
Exports of goods and sewiceslGDP                   25.3     27.9    42.3     35.4                       Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                         29.0     33.4    24.9     21.1
Gross national savings/GDP                                  21.4    22.8     17.1    1                    T

Current account baianceIGDP                        -5.6     -2.0     4.9      4.3
Interest paymentslGDP                               1.6      2.7     3.2      1.8
Total debVGDP                                      26.5     63.3    94.2     74.5
Total debt sewice/exporls                          18.1     32.6    25.9     23.7
Present value of debt/GDP                                           93.0
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                       235.5                              Indebtedness
                                        1982.92 1992-02    2001    2002   2003-07
(average annual growth)
GDP                                         6.9     2.5      3.4     3.7      3.9             -Indonesia

GDP per capita                              5.0     1.1      2.1     2.3      2.4                     Low-income group
                                                                                                ~                                  I
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                                                           I
(% of GDP)
Agricuiture                                        23.9     18.7    17.0     17.5     2o

Industry                                           37.9     39.6    45.6     44.5
   Manufacturing                                   11.9     22.0    25.0     25.0     -20
Services                                           38.2     41.7    37.5     38.1
Private consumption                                59.5     57.8    67.3     70.7     -601
General government consumption                     11.5      8.8     7.8      8.2
Importsof goods and sewices                                                                      -GDi          -GDP


                                                1982-92  1992-02   2o01     2o02
(average annualgrowth)                                                                Growth of exports and imports ( O h )

Agriculture                                         3.8      1.6     1.o      1.7     40
Industry                                            9.2      3.2     3.3      3.7     20
   Manufacturing                                   12.6      4.7     4.1      4.0      0
Services                                            6.5      2.3     4.6      4.4   .20
Private consumption                                 4.4      5.2     4.4      4.7   -40
General government consumption                      4.9      0.4     9.0     12.8   -60
Gross domestic investment                           9.6     -4.7     6.3    -12.5
Imports of goods and sewices                        3.0      1.9     8.1     -8.3  -         -Exports          --O-lmports




                                                                - 70 -

                                                                                                                   Indonesia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1982         1992     2001    2002
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                ..         7.6     11.5   11.9
Implicit GDP deflator                        6.1          5.4     10.8     7.2
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                                  20.7    18.9             87    98      99      00       01       02
Current budget balance                                             0.0     0.6
Overaii surplusldeficit                                           -2.9    -1.7           -GDP       deflator  +CPI


TRADE                                                                                                                               I
                                           1982         1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                   Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ......
                                               ..     33,796   57,364  58,817    80.000 T
 Fuel                                                 10,671   12,648  12,139
 Rubber                                                  684      872    1,238
 Manufactures                                         14,224   22,275  19,119
Total imports (ci0                             ..     27,280   34,669  35,805
 Food                                                  1,274    2,497   2,852
 Fuel and energy                                       2,104    5,523   6,558
 Capital goods                                 ...... 11,700    9,050   8,606
Export price index (1995=100)                                                            96  97    98     99     00      01

import price index (1995=100)                                                                ta Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1982         1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP (Oh)

Exports of goods and sewices              20,251      37,167   82,864  64,004    6 7
Imports of goods and sewices              22,716      34,674   50,549  51,498
Resource balance                          -2,465       2,313    12,315 12,506

Net income                                -2,993      -5,664    -8,143  -6,506
Net current transfers                        134         571     2,728   1,453
Current account balance                   -5,324      -2,780     6,900   7,451

Financing items (net)                      3,471       4,850    -8,278  -3,430
Changes in net reserves                    1,853      -2,070     1.378  -4,021

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                      .. 27,890  31,911
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           661.4      2,029.9 10,260.9 9,311.2

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1982         1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                  I Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)              I
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      25,133      88,002   133,072 128,765
  IBRD                                     1,735      10,640    11,435 10,729
  IDA                                        707         814       722     794

Total debt service                         3,856      12,457    14,445 13,893
  IBRD                                       207        1,515    1,753   1,905
  IDA                                          8          22        32      33
Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                             92         298         0       0
  Official creditors                       1,067       3,097       615   -440
  Private creditors                        1,401        2,655   -6,199  -2,915
  Foreign direct investment                  225        1,777   -5,877  -7,066
  Portfolio equity                             0          146    1,145   1,243
                                                                                                                                    I
World Bank program
  Commitments                                977        1,256      845     103    A IBRD
                                                                                    -                              E   - Bilateral
  Disbursements                              583        1,003      585     419    E. IDA    D .Other multilateral  F Private
                                                                                                                       ~


  Principal repayments                        82         692       853   1,065    C IMF
                                                                                     ~                             G -Short-term
  Net flows                                 501          311      -268   -646
  Interest payments                          133         845       932     873
  Net transfers                             368         -533    -1,200  -1,519




                                                               - 71  -

                          Additional Annex 11: Environmental Analysis
              INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy Development Project

Environmental Conditionsof Indonesia

Indonesia is a country o f highly varied landscapes, modern and fast-growing cities, and vast endowments o f
natural resources. Indonesia is also a land o f extraordinary biodiversity. It is home to 10 percent o f the
world's mammal species, 11 percent of its plant species, 16 percent o f its reptiles and amphibians, 17
percent o f its bird species, and 25 percent o f its fish species. Most o f these species are found in the
nation's forests.   About 60 percent o f Indonesia's land is forested and a significant portion is also
mountainous and volcanic. Centuries o f volcanic activity has led to high soil fertility on Java and Bali,
contributing to their high population densities and intensive land use.

Millions o f Indonesians depend directly on fishing, farming, and forestry for their livelihoods.       Large
plantation operators, timber concerns, and mining and oil companies operate over large tracts o f land, often
employing highly destructive practices as they seek short-term profits.       The poorer communities that
depend most directly on the natural resources for their livelihoods are hurt the most from the loss of
resources.

Deforestation is occurring at an alarming rates in Indonesia, due to clearing o f land with fire for timber or
estate crop plantations or for agriculture, and poorly controlled commercial logging. The forests provide
habitats to many large animals including tigers, orangutans, gibbons, elephants, wild cattle, rhinos and
countless bird species. Loss o f habitat and uncontrolled hunting are decimating many o f these animal
species. The problem o f deforestation is most acute in Kalimantan, Sumatra, Sulawesi, and West Papua,
islands with relatively low population densities and high value natural resources.

Slightly less than 10 percent o f Indonesia's land area is designated as conservation areas through a
protected area network that comprises 35 national parks and 339 other reserves. The system itself i s
incomplete, with 36 o f 80 areas designated as critical reserves remaining legally unprotected. Moreover,
only one national park has been hlly gazetted: Kerinci-Seblat National Park. Inaddition, the boundaries of
the parks, protected areas, and remaining forests are not clearly defined and encroachment, illegal hunting,
timber cutting, and other activities are widespread.

Although Indonesia extends across more than 17,500 islands, fewer than half are inhabited.              About
two-thirds o f Indonesia's estimated 203 million people live on Java, Bali, and Madura, although these
islands make up only 7 percent o f the land mass o f the country. About 42 percent of the population lives in
urban areas, and the numbers are growing rapidly. Environmental conditions in Indonesia are thus very
location-specific. Java and Bali, where land titling activities will be confined, have few forest resources
and only a small proportion o f its biodiversity. Rather the most serious environmental problems in these
regions are air and water pollution.

Another environmental concern i s the lack o f access to clean water and sanitation facilities in Indonesia,
particularly inperi-urbanareas, which contributes to Indonesia's high rate o f preventable diarrheal diseases
and repeated local outbreaks o f typhoid. Investments inpipedwater supplies and especially sewerage have
been well below what are needed to provide universal coverage. It is estimated that over 43 million people
lacked access to pipedwater supplies and an even larger number lacked access to sewerage systems.




                                                     - 72 -

Impacts of the Project on the Environment

Adverse environmental impacts of the project are likely to range from minor to negligible. Among
other goals, the project seeks to improve natural resources management by supporting the development o f
policies, laws, and regulations to clarify rights o f people to land, by enhancing transparency in land
matters, and by strengthening security o f tenure through the issuance o f titles to households with legitimate
legal claims to the land. Establishing clear property rights to land and natural resources creates incentives
for owners to manage the resources for their long-term benefit.         This encourages investment in soil
conservation, watershed protection, reforestation, and sustainable use o f wild animals and plants. B y
formalizing rights to residential plots, the project encourages investmentin activities and infrastructure that
improve environmental conditions where people live and work, such as solid waste management, water
supply systems, and sanitation facilities.      Indeed a social assessment o f the earlier Indonesia Land
Administration Project shows that peri-urban dwellers invested substantially in their homes and
neighborhoods after receiving titles. In this way the project i s expected to directly contribute to improved
environmental management inIndonesia.

Indirectly, by stimulating new investment in industries, agriculture, urban housing and offices, the project
has the potential to affect the environment negatively. Without proper management, new investment in
industry and other facilities can harm the environment. To minimize or mitigate the potential impacts
requires effective environmental laws and regulations, and the strengthening of capacity o f the ministry of
environment and the regional and local environmental agencies to monitor compliance with and enforce
environmental the laws and regulations.

New investment due to titling will occur outside the scope of the project, and no specific measures
have been designed to deal with its potential impacts under project financing. Indonesia has a fairly
well-developed system for managing environmental matters at both the central and subnational levels. The
Ministryof Environment is responsible for providing the legal framework that defines the responsibilities
and services to be provided at the central, provincial, and local levels; setting the policy; specifying
environmental standards; monitoring and enforcing compliance with national minimum standards;
providing training; conducting research; and collecting and disseminating data. Authority for subnational
level environmental management and control was largely decentralized in 1999 to provincial and kabupaten
and kota levels o f government (bapedal at the provincial level and bapelda at the kabupaten and kota
levels). These agencies are responsible for environmental impact assessment o f projects. Handling these
services at the subnational level is expected to result in an improved process o f environmental impact
assessment, and improved monitoring and enforcement o f national minimum standards, although
decentralization o f important functions o f environmental management has in some cases led to weakened
controls over the exploitation o f natural resources and the management o f the environment. Two important
functions have not been devolved to subnational governments       -the determination o f forest boundaries and
changes in their status and function (including conversion), and the management o f conservation and
protected areas and remain under the control o f the national government.
                -
Many multilateral and bilateral donors and NGOs are working with both the central and local
government environmental entities to strengthen their capacity for environmental and natural
resources management. The European Union, the United States, Canada, Japan, UnitedNations agencies,
the World Wild Fund for Nature, the Nature Conservancy, Conservation International, and others have
programs that aim specifically to promote decentralized and strengthened management o f Indonesia's
forests, protected areas, and coastal resources.      Many donors have provided technical assistance and
training to the Ministry o f Environment and the Ministry o f Forestry to strengthen their capacity to develop
policies and standards to soundly manage natural resources and the environment.


                                                      -73 -

Project Approach with regard to EnvironmentalIssues

The project is classified as World Bank environmental assessment Category B because it is not
expected to have significant, large scale, or irreversible adverse environmental impacts. The project
has been designed to promote sound environmental management and to mitigate potentially negative affects
arising directly from project activities. Measures include:

Sequencing of systematic titling activities. The project will not provide titles in areas designated as forest
areas, protected areas, the coastal zone, riverbanks, areas o f cultural and religious significance, or areas for
public purposes or public facilities.

Incorporating environmental input into land policy formulation. Wherever appropriate, the land policies
and regulations beingdeveloped under the project will include input from the ministrieso f environment and
forestry and from nongovernmental organizations with an interest in sound environmental management and
inenvironmental protection. The MinistryofEnvironment willbe amember ofthe national landcommittee
that is responsible for formulating land policies and regulations. The three ministries managing natural
resources (ministry o f forestry, ministry o f mining, and the ministry o f agriculture) will also be members.
NGOs concerned with the environment will participate in the public consultations and focus group
discussions intendedto build consensus on the national land policies. They will also be consulted regularly
throughout project implementation,       Advice will also be sought from multilateral and bilateral donors
working inthe area o f environmental management.

Ensuring that construction of buildings complies with World Bank social and environmental safeguards.
The project will support rehabilitation or construction o f up to fifteen land office buildings. The buildings
will be constructed on land that is already occupied by local government offices or on land that is vacant.
No people will be involuntarily resettled under project-supported activities. All buildings will be designed
and constructed in accordance with sound architectural and engineering practices. Care will be taken
during construction to control dust and noise, provide appropriate sanitation facilities for workers and
protect worker safety, and dispose o f solid waste appropriately. Proposals for civil works will contain a
plan for minimizing and mitigating environmental impacts. Local environmental entities will review all
proposals for construction o f buildings and civil works in accordance with the normal environmental
assessmentprocesses.

Encouraging local governments to include environmental representations in stakeholder consultations.
Through its support to local governments, the project will encourage local governments to include NGOs
concerned with the environment to participate in the stakeholder forums regarding matters such as the
issuance o f location permits, opening o f new lands, land distribution, and land use planning.            These
fimctions o f local government all have implications for the environment, and decisions should not be made
without understanding clearly those implications.

Monitoring and evaluating the impact of the project on the environment.                  Most o f the positive
environmental impacts o f the project will result from strengthening security o f tenure and from developing
policies that reflect concems for improved environmental management. The key output indicators include
the number o f policies developed with environmental input. It is not expected that outcomes, such as
evidence o f improved environmental management will be measurable during the project lifetime. It is
expected that the project's environmental impacts will ultimately be measurable through monitoring o f
environmental indicators regularly carried out by the Indonesia Ministry o f Environment.



                                                     - 74-

Compliancewith World BankEnvironmentalSafeguardPolicies

Environmental assessment (OP 4.01). The project is classified as category B because it is not expected to
have significant adverse environmental impacts. Other than construction o f office space and related
facilities, the project will not support civil works, land conversion, resource extraction, industrial
production or any activity that could potentially damage the environment. Contracts for civil works under
the project will be subject to screening for environmental impacts by the local environmental entities
(bapelda), which are responsible for this activity. All contracts will include measures acceptable to the
bapelda to minimize or mitigate environmental damage. The project will not support land acquisition or
associated involuntary resettlement. Policy formulation and institutional development (about 25 percent the
total project cost) are environmental assessment category C. They are not subject to special environmental
review requirements.

Natural habitats (OP 4.04). The project will not provide titles in areas designated as protected areas by
the Government o f Indonesia or in areas that, in the Bank's opinion, are o f potential environmental
significance. These include forests; marine and coastal areas; areas along riverbanks; conservation areas;
areas surrounding springs, lakes and reservoirs; coastal mangrove areas, and the like.

Cultural property (OPN 11.03). Indonesia has sites o f great cultural significance, not all o f which are
currently known. The project will not provide titles in areas with known cultural artifacts or in areas
deemed by the government as high priority for further study. The project will in addition not title lands
considered sacred or o f spiritual importance.

Forests (OP 4.36). The project will not provide titles in areas classified as forest land by the state, unless
the state agrees to release the land for individual titling.

Pest management (OP 4.09). This policy does not apply to the project. While farmers may increase their
use o f pesticides while intensifying cultivation, the increase is not expected to be significant. In should be
noted that the government o f Indonesia has pursued a strategy o f integrated pest management since 1989,
which it scaled up to national level inthe mid-1990s. The World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and
USAID have been supporting the government in implementing the strategy. The Food and Agriculture
Organization has also been training farmers through the farmer field school approach in the use o f
integrated pest management practices.

EnvironmentalGuidelines

The project will finance the expansion or construction o f about fifteen small land office buildings. The
buildings will be expanded or constructed on land already under the control of BPN or local government or
on vacant land. N o resettlement will be involved. Other than construction o f office space and related
facilities, the project will not support civil works, land conversion, resource extraction, industrial
production or any activity that could potentially damage the environment. The maximum value o f the
construction and related civil works at any one location will be US$l million.             Construction of the
buildings is expected to have little or no significant, large scale, or irreversible adverse environmental
impacts. Environmental impacts would arise primarily from poor site management during the construction
o f the buildings. The project is classified as safeguards category BlS2 because it is not expected to have
adverse environmental or social impacts. Policy formulation and institutional development activities (about
25 percent the total project cost) will not have direct impacts on the environment and are considered
environmental assessment category C. They are not subject to special environmental review requirements.



                                                       - 75 -

These guidelines outline the principles and procedures that implementing entities will follow to ensure that
project-supported activities comply with the Bank's environmental safeguards and with the environmental
laws o f Indonesia. Indonesia's environmental review procedures are generally consistent with the Bank's
and will form the framework for the project's approach to environmental management.

Basic Principles

    Construction activities supported under the project should seek to avoid, minimize, or mitigate negative
    environmental impacts.      Those responsible for construction or related civil works will do so by
    following the guidelines inthe project implementation plan for designand construction.
    Construction and other project activities will be designed to promote improved practices o f
    environmental management wherever possible. They may include, for example, drainage systems that
    minimize negative impacts on nearby wetlands or drinking water sources.
    Measures to avoid, minimize, or mitigate environmental impacts will be included in the project
    documents specifying the design and construction o f the buildings and the standard operating
    procedures to be followed during construction.
    No subproject that would require a full environmental assessment under Indonesian regulations or that
    would be considered Bank environmental assessment category A will be approved for financing under
    the project.

EnvironmentalScreeningProcedures

The bapelda, the local government agency responsible for environmental impact assessment of projects
with strictly local impacts, will screen all proposals for construction and civil works in accordance with the
screening criteria established by the government.          The initial classification will be based on the
characteristics o f the construction site, the scale o f construction, and the nature o f the surrounding area.
Depending on its potential impacts, the bapelda will place the project into one o f four categories in
accordance with the criteria o f the Government o f Indonesia:

(i)      Projects requiring a full environmental assessment inaccordance with Indonesianregulations.
          Noprojects are expected tofall into this category;

(ii)     Those requiring environmental management and monitoring plans. The Ministryo f Settlement and
         Regional Infrastructure has set criteria for projects requiring such plans.        Most construction
         activities to be supported under theproject are expected tofall into this category;

(iii)    Those for which generic good practice, following standard operating procedures will apply.
          Someprojects mayfall into this category; and

(iv)     Those requiring no environmental study, where no construction, disturbance o f land or water, or
         discharge o f pollutants is involved. No construction activities willfall under this category.




                                                     -  76 -

Government screeningcriteria for constructionof apartments and office buildings

According to KEP- 17iMENLW2001 (concerning types o f businesses activities required to complete an
environmental impact assessment) the following rules apply for construction o f apartments and office
buildings:

A fullenvironmental assessment(ANDAL)is requiredfor buildings:

    0   Covering a land area greater than or equal to 5 hectares

    0   Having a floor area per buildinggreater than or equal to 10,000 square meters.

Under Kepmen Kimpraswil-l7/KPTS/2003 (concerning decisions on types o f activities in the field o f
public works that are required to prepare U P L and UKL) site-specific environmental management and
environmental monitoring plans (UKLAJPL) are required for all buildings:

    0   Having a floor area less than 10,000 square meters.

All the buildings to be constructed under the project are expected to have a floor area less than 10,000
square meters. Some o f the construction activities are likely to be the addition o f a room or two to existing
buildings, for which a UKLAJPLwill not be required. Standard operating procedures will be used instead.

EnvironmentalManagement

The project implementation plan will contain a matrix o f likely environmental impacts related to
construction o f buildings, and the steps to be followed with which to avoid, minimize, or mitigate them.
Standard operating procedures will include measures applying to construction in general, such as measures
to control dust, noise, and traffic at construction sites and guidelines for controlling erosion.

The entities responsible for implementing the construction activities, whether local government or local
offices o f BPN, will be responsible for preparing the environmental management and environmental
monitoring plans (UKLAJPL), where required. They will also be responsible for ensuring that the
measures specified in the UKLAJPL are incorporated into the designs, construction contracts, and
post-construction operating procedures, as appropriate. The appropriate central level project management
unit (BPN or o f the Ministry o f Home Affairs) through the project-financed consultant will review the final
construction proposals to ensure that they are in compliance with the guidelines. Proposals for buildings
and related civil works costing over US$150,000 will in any case be submitted to the Bank for prior review
and final approval, giving the Bank a chance to review and approve the proposed environmental
management and environmental monitoring plans. Smaller projects will be subject to post-implementation
review.

The implementing entities will be responsible for supervising construction and ensuring that the
construction is in compliance with the agreed measures to minimize and mitigate negative environmental
impacts, whether based on the UKLAJPL or on the standard operating procedures as laid out inthe project
implementation plan.     The appropriate central project management unit through the project-financed
consultant will check on the performance o f the local-level entities in filfilling their responsibilities by
randomly checking the construction sites.


                                                       - 77 -

Banksupervision missions will randomly visit construction sites and those responsible for implementing the
projects to ensure that the projects comply with the national laws regarding environmental impact
assessment.

Monitoring and Reporting

Periodic progress reports will include a review o f the performance o f the contractors and o f the
implementing agency in avoiding, minimizing, and mitigating environmental damage arising from
construction and related civil works financed under the project. The Socio-economic and environmental
impact study would be undertakento monitor land titling on the environment




                                                 - 78 -

                            Additional Annex 12: Social Analysis
          INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy Development Project

A social assessment o f the systematic land titling program o f the Land Administration Project was
carried out 1999 at the mid-term o f the project. This was followed in 2002 with an impact evaluation
o f the program. Altogether, about 2,200 people in 23 o f the 49 districts and cities covered under the
program participated infocus group discussions, interviews, or surveys regarding the program and land
matters in general. The full social assessment and impact evaluation are available inproject files. The
key findings o f the studies are summarized below.

Land registration has increased the security of tenure for all, but the program has benefited the
poor the most. The great majority o f respondents indicated that registering land through the program
has provided them with a higher level o f security than other documents showing ownership o f land
(such as documents recording the payment o f land taxes) and that having such security has
strengthened their bargaining power should the state or investors wish to take over their land. The
program did not discriminate on the basis o f income or social status, providing title to all in the
program area who were able to prove their claims. However, the poor benefit most by being able to
obtain security o f tenure inexpensively and quickly, because they cannot afford the costs and time o f
obtaining title through the sporadic titling program. Respondents indicate that the project teams made
special efforts to ensure that the poor were not overlooked inthe titling process. Inmost cases the poor
paid little or nothing for their land titles as better off members o f the community paid higher fees to
cover the costs o f titles for the poor.

The program had the greatest impact in cases where state land was converted to private land.
The benefits o f moving households from completely insecure land tenure to completely secure land
tenure were substantial. New investmentinland, housing, and public water and sewerage systems and
other public amenities was higher insuch communities than inthose occupying land already recognized
as private. This suggests that resolving the difficult cases involving occupants o f state land and, where
appropriate, converting state land to private land could have a substantial development impact.
Eliminating the 5 percent tax that households pay when registering for the first time land classified as
state land would help speed the process. Currently many households living on such land cannot afford
this fee.

The position of women with regard to land that they have inherited has been strengthened.
However, the opposite i s true with regard to land that has been purchased after marriage. Over
20 percent o f the land held by the people participating in the social assessment and the impact
evaluation has beenpassed down through the female line. This landhas nearly always been registered
inthe names of the female heirs. Similarly, landinherited by men has been registered inthe names o f
the male heirs. Inthese areas, joint ownership o f inheritedland by husband and wife is unknown and
neither the husbandnor the wife have legal claim to property inherited by the other.

The only area o f disadvantage women have experienced under the program has been with regard to
land purchased after marriage. In most cases, this land has been registered in the names o f the
husbands and not in the names o f both partners. According to traditional law, land and other assets
acquired during marriage must be divided equally if the couple divorces. Registering the land in the
name o f only the husband may place the wife in a less secure position than prior to registration, simply
by converting traditional land tenure to a more formal legal status. An important reason for not
registering the titles inboth names appears to have been the failure o f the adjudication teams to explain


                                                 -  79 -

that such land could be so registered and that doing so would provide the wife with legal protections in
the event o f the death o f the husband or o f divorce. The solution is to train adjudication teams to
inform participants o f both the right o f the wife to request that her name be included on the title of land
purchased after marriage and o f the benefits o f doing so.

Access to and use of credit has risen. A higher proportion o f households with land certificates have
obtained formal bank loans than households without such certificates. Most o f the loans have been
used for investment innon-farm businesses, such as inthe expansion o f a store, in small-scale h i t u r e
production, or inthe purchase o f a small vehicle for use as a taxi. Households inurban and peri-urban
areas have used credit to replace bamboo houses with brick houses, to connect their houses to
electricity, and to contribute to the construction o f public water and sewerage systems and paved paths,
thushelpingto improve their neighborhood as a whole.

Land values have increased. Titled land appears to be worth 10-65 percent more than untitledland.
The rise in value is especially pronounced in urban areas, where land is undergoing rapid changes in
use and land markets are most active. Having title i s especially important in this context, because
developers and their financiers do not want to deal with uncertainties regarding the status o f land.

Investments in land increased. Having greater security o f tenure has encouraged households to invest
in land, although the change has not been great. Most of the investment has been in land used for
house plots. Little new investment was made in agricultural land, as much o f the land is already under
intensive irrigated rice production and it would be virtually impossible for any individual to make any
investment that would improve its productivity.

Tax revenues have risen. Revenues from taxes on land and buildings rose after titling, due to
increases in land values. The increases are most pronounced in urban areas, where land values are
rising sharply.

Registering of subsequent transactions has remained low, which may over time erode the benefits
of the program. Beneficiaries o f the systematic land titling program stated that they did not register
subsequent transactions with BPNbecause they believe that the costs and time required to do so are too
high. Instead, they record their transactions with the local (kelurahan) office. Over time, this practice
will erode the benefits of the program, as the new owners will not have the security o f tenure offered
through formal registration.      The solution is to reduce the costs and time required to register
transactions o f titled landwith BPN.

Project approach with regard to social issues

The findings of both the social assessment and the impact evaluation have been reflected in the project
design. In particular, they have been used to inform the choice o f the land polices to be developed
under the project and to design the framework and guidelines for community participation intended to
ensure that women, the poor, and marginalized groups benefit hlly from the project. Details follow.

Incorporating measures to ensure that women and men benefit equallyfrom the project. The project
has been designed to ensure that women are not disadvantaged through land titling o f land.
Adjudication teams and NGOs contracted under the project to facilitate community participation will
be instructed to clearly explain to both men and women the advantages o f titling land purchased after
marriage in the names o f both husbandand wife and o f the wife's right to have her name included on
the title. They will also be required to invite bothmen and women to all meetingsrelatedto systematic


                                                  - 80 -

land titling, and to organize special meetings for women to ensure that women have opportunities to ask
questions and voice concems. An indicator o f the success o f the project will be that 90 percent o f
women participating in surveys state that they had the opportunity to discuss the project and were
aware o f their right to have their name recorded on land titles.

Inthe development of land policies, NGOs focusing on women's rights will be invited to participate in
the public consultations and the focus group discussions. Representatives o f women's interests will
also be involved in participatory land use planning and any other activities being undertaken with
community participation.

Ensuring the participation of stakeholders in all project activities. The project will finance public
consultations with stakeholders in developing national land policies. It will also finance the contracting
o f NGOs to facilitate community participation inthe systematic titling program (Component 3). They
will carry out activities such as raising awareness o f the program, conducting village tenure profiles,
entering field data into the registration database, analyzing .registration records, producing consolidated
village land files, and informing communities o f the importance of registering subsequent transactions
o f titled land and explaining how to do so. The project will provide the selected NGOs with training in
participatory techniques to ensure that they reach both women and men, members o f marginalized
groups, and the poor.

The project will also finance the contracting of NGOs to independently monitor the performance of
BPN in implementing the systematic land titling program and o f local governments in carrying their
responsibilities with regard to land management.         This annex contains the detailed participation
framework.

Ensuring the project benefits the poor. The project will include several elements intended to ensure
that the poor benefit fully from the project. The first is to include poverty indicators among the criteria
for selection o f areas to be covered under the systematic land titling program. The previous Land
Administration Project required that the areas to be covered have a majority o f low income households.
This worked well, and the proposed project will follow the same approach. The second element is to
train NGOs and adjudication teams in measures designed specifically to reach the poor. The third
element is to establish a fee structure for titling that exempts the poor from fees for systematic titling.
The precise fee structure will be agreed during appraisal.

Supporting the establishment of a stakeholder forum at the local level tofacilitate participation in
decisions on land issues. The local governments are responsible for nine functions in relation to land
issues, according to the Presidential Decree 34 signed on May 31 2003. These nine functions are: (i)
issuance o f location permits, (ii)  provision o f land for the public interest, (iii)settlement o f disputes
regarding cultivated land, (iv) resolution o f compensation for land allocated for development, (v) land
distribution and compensation for excess land, (vi) determination and resolution o f conflicts regarding
ulayat land, (vii) resolution o f problems regarding neglected land, (viii) provision o f permits to open
new land, and (ix) land use planningwithin the jurisdiction o f the local government. Local government
will require considerable stakeholder input if they are to carry out these functions successfully. The
project will assist local governments in establishing and maintaining participatory processes through
which consensus on land matters can be built. These will include stakeholder forums involving
representatives o f government, academia, the private sector, NGO, investors, real estate interests, and
others as appropriate.




                                                  - 81 -

Supporting the development of conj7ict resolution mechanisms. The project through component 5
(support to local governments) will support the piloting o f alternative dispute resolution mechanisms to
enable parties to resolve disputes without resorting to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings.
These may include establishment o f local land dispute resolution councils, ulayat land management
entities, or other bodies that will directly engage disputants in producing and implementing plans and
rules and solving problems.

Supporting the development of polices and procedures for recognizing and registering adat land
rights. The project will support the development through nationwide consultations o f a national policy
on recognizing and registering adat land rights. The project will not title land in areas with adat land
until a policy has been adopted and supporting legislation passed that makes clear the procedures that
will be followed to define the boundaries o f adat land and to register the land inthe national cadastre.

Supporting land distribution.      The project will support the development o f a national policy on
distributingstate and abandoned land to households who are either already settled on and cultivating
the land or are lacking sufficient landto support themselves.

Compliance with World Bank Social Safeguard Policies

Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) The population o f Indonesia consists o f hundreds o f culturally and
socially distinct ethnic groups, many o f which communicate in unique local languages. A particular
ethnic group may constitute the majority or a large proportion o f people in one area, but in another
represent a vulnerable minority. A rigid system cannot therefore be used to identify the groups covered
under OD 4.20. Rather, the policy applies to culturally distinctive groups that are vulnerable and
marginalized according to both self assessment and the judgment o f those who are not members o f the
community.

The project has been designed to protect the rights o f vulnerable, marginalized indigenous groups in
several ways. Off Java it will not support titling in rural areas, where most o f the vulnerable and
marginalized communities are located. Neither on or off Java will it support titling where ownership
claims to land are unclear or contested. Thus, it will not provide title to lands that are claimed by
indigenous people, any government entity, or a community. The project will support the development
o f a policy through a highly participatory process on methods for future formal recognition and
registration o f adat lands and adat rules for allocating and managing land.

Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). The project will not involve land acquisition. New buildings to
be constructed under the project will be built on land already under the control o f local government or
on vacant land. The project will not support titling o f land for which ownership claims are unclear.
Neither the state nor its entities will receive title to land on which people are settled.

Squatters on state land thus will not receive titles unless the state formally releases the land for
individual titling. The project will follow a fully participatory approach, including posting public
notices invillages, to ensure that the rightfblowners o f the land receive title.




                                                    - 82 -

Social Guidelines

Basic principles


0   N o group should be left worse off because o f the project than without it. Care will therefore be
    taken to reach women, the poor, and vulnerable and marginalized groups to ensure that they
    benefit fully from the project.


0   N o project-supported activity should have an adverse impact on indigenous people.


0   N o households should be involuntarily resettled.


0   Accountability and transparency with respect to the use of project fimds and fees for titling should
    be high.

Ensuringthat no landwhose ownership is unclear or in disputeis titled

To ensure that no such land is titled, a broad public awareness campaign will be undertaken by both
the project implementing agencies (BPN or the Ministry o f Home Affairs) and by the NGOs that are
contracted by the project to facilitate community participation. An additional layer o f oversight will be
provided by NGOs contracted to independently monitor project implementation.                    Following
adjudication, a map showing the boundaries o f individual plots and the names o f their owners will be
posted in several prominent places inthe community for a period o f no less than 30 days. People who
disagree with the findings shown on the map will be able to lodge their complaint with both the NGO
and with the adjudication team working in the community without charge. They will work with the
necessary authorities to correct simple mistakes. When the complaint involves a dispute between
parties rather than a simple mistake, the parties will be encouraged to settle their disagreements through
normal channels. Experience from the previous Land Administration Project shows that people are
often able to reach agreement when motivated to do so by the opportunity o f receiving a title to land at
low cost.

Raisingcommunity awarenessand participation

A weakness inthe earlier LandAdministration Project were its community awareness and community
participation activities. Participation and community awareness will be significantly strengthened in
the proposed project. NGOs will be contracted to work directly in communities that are participating
inthe systematic land titling to both publicize the program to the community as a whole and to ensure
that the poor, the disadvantaged, women, and marginalized and vulnerable groups participate and
benefit fully from the project. Brochures on procedures, requirements, costs, mechanisms for resolving
complaints, women's rights to title under the law and the like will be produced and provided to both
NGOs and to community leaders (lurah, rukan tetungga, and rukun wurga),who will be expected to
distribute them to community members. A luruh is head o f an urban kelurahan, a rukun tetungga is
head o f a neighborhood group, and a rukun wargu is head o f a neighborhood association.




                                                 - 83 -

Ensuringtransparency and accountability

Beneficiaries o f the project have the right to know how much they will have to pay to obtain titles and
how long the process will take under both the systematic and sporadic titling programs. All fees for
titling (whether for sporadic or systematic titling) will be posted in the national and local BPN land
offices. Fees for systematic titling will be postedjn participating communities, included in information
materials, and announced by the NGOs contracted to facilitate community participation.              NGOs
contracted to independently monitor the implementation o f the project will pay special attention to the
adherence o f BPNto the agreed fees and charges and to the performance standards. They will compile
a report with their findings every six months and send it to the implementing agencies copied to the
Bank. A social assessment to be undertaken at the mid-term o f the systematic land titling program, and
an impact evaluation to be undertakenat its conclusion will thoroughly explore the issues o f charges
and fees and overall performance o f the implementing agencies. Measures will be taken immediately if
irregularities are found.

Handling grievances

The project will support the handling o f grievances in two ways.             Firstly, a task force will be
established inthe LMPDP PIU unit in BPN. The unit will be responsible for handling complaints and
grievances submitted by individuals or groups to local offices or directly to the central office. Secondly,
the NGOs hired to support land titling will communicate the grievances and complains to the task
force. BPN will record all complains and also record the actions taken.


Titling land outside of Java

The proposed project will not title land inrural areas outside o f Java. It will title only landfor which
claims are not in dispute. Title will given only to individual households and not to any government
entity, to a business, or to a community as a whole. The following steps will be taken to determine
eligibility for titling and to enter the data into the national cadastre.

Creating land tenure profiles. To determine eligibility o f land for titling, the project will finance the
training and work o f NGOs to facilitate the development o f community land tenure profiles. The
profiles will show the boundaries o f adat land, past and present administrative boundaries, and land for
which rights are in dispute along with the nature o f the dispute (between family members, between
communities, between communities and a government entity, or between other disputants). The
product o f the exercise will be a land tenure profile and a request for titling.


Reporting

Periodic progress reports will include a review o f the performance o f the adjudication teams and the
NGOs in ensuring that all members o f the communities involved in systematic titling are able to
participate inthe program. They will also include a summary o f the nature o f complaints received and
the steps that were taken to address them.




                                                    - 84 -

Participatory framework

Public participation will be an essential element o f project activities, but will be handled differently
depending on the executing entity and the nature o f the activity. The processes to be followed for
development o f the national land policy, the systematic titling program, and support for local
governments are described below.

Development of land policies and revisions to the Basic Agrarian Law

Principles


0   The public consultations should seek to gather the input o f as wide a range o f stakeholders as
    possible to ensure that the national land policy truly represents a national consensus.


0   The public consultations should be conducted ina way that ensures all are able to participate fully.

    This means that should be conducted inlocal languages andwith professional facilitation.


0   The content o f the consultations should be made available to all. Therefore a summary o f the
    results o f the individual consultations should be publishedinthe local and national languages.

Organization

A secretariat will be established under BAPPENAS that will be responsible for the daily tasks o f
producing drafts o f the various land policy papers and in conducting public consultations.            The
secretariat will include specialists in law, urban planning, agriculture, natural resource management,
and the social sciences. It will also include a public communications specialist. An advisory panel o f
local government representatives (such as the Association o f Bupatis) and nongovernmental experts
(such as the Association o f Real Estate Agents) will be created to advise the secretariat.

The secretariat will also contract regional facilitators and resource persons who have expertise in land
affairs, natural resource management, urban planning, public affairs, or other relevant area. Each
regional facilitator will be responsible for the publicity, the running o f the workshops, and synthesizing
the results o f the consultations.    The regional facilitators will also be responsible for contracting
individuals or organizations to undertake focus groups discussions. Some focus group discussions will
involve special interest groups, such as environmental NGOs, and others will comprise ordinary
people.

The consultation process will involve all key stakeholder groups. These include central and local
government officials representing the ministries o f agriculture, forestry, justice, home affairs, economic
planning, finance, mining, environment, defense, and others. The consultations will also involve NGOs
(including those focusing on the environment, women, and adat land rights), and the private sector. To
ensure that the consultations capture the views o f the population in general, various mechanisms for
consultation will have to be pursued simultaneously, including workshops, focus group discussions,
and requests for comment through the media.




                                                 - a5 -

Steps
The public consultations will comprise the following steps:

Consultations on the draft discussion paper on land policy; The LMPDP coordinating committee
has prepared a discussion paper on national land policy that addresses issues o f land administration,
use, and management, and lays out policy options with their implications. The draft discussion paper
will be published in newspapers, and broadcast over radio, television, and through other local media.
Workshops and focus group discussions intended to obtain the views o f as many stakeholder groups as
possible will be held in various regions o f the country. Once the consultations have been completed,
the LMPDP coordinating committee will develop a draft national landpolicy.

Consultations on the national land policy. Once the draft land policy paper is ready it will be
disseminated through newspapers, radio, television, and other local media. Six regional workshops will
be held, one ineach o f Indonesia's major regions. Two national-level workshops will also be held.

Finalization and adoption of the national land policy. The secretariat will incorporate changes inthe
national land policy, reflecting the consensus that has been reached through the national dialogue. The
national land committee will submit the final document to the cabinet for adoption.

Systematic titling
NGOs will be contracted to inform communities of the systematic land titling program and to facilitate
the participation o f community members in it. Specifically, NGOs will visit the villages prior to
adjudication to disseminate information about the program and to facilitate meetings between the
villagers and BPN. NGOs will conduct focus groups discussions and workshops to explain the project
objectives, rationale and benefits, fees and charges, and the forms, the costs, the procedures and legal
rights to the communities.     They will make special efforts to ensure that women, the poor, and
disadvantaged groups participate in the general meetings. In addition, NGOs will organize separate
meetings with such groups, so that people who may otherwise be silent have the opportunity to ask
questions and voice concerns. NGOs will also assist in the preparation o f community land profiles to
define plot boundaries, and to identify any existing land disputes. A standard form for gathering the
data will be developed during the pre-implementation period. Data will be entered into a computerized
database for easy reference and use. NGOs will also ensure that the results o f the adjudication are
posted in several prominent places in the community for a minimum o f 30 days. They will assist
community members in lodging complaints and grievances with the proper authorities and to follow-up
whennecessary.

Support to local governments
Success o f local governments in carrying out their nine functions will depend critically on their ability
to build consensus o f local stakeholders through participation on the actions to take. The project will
support the establishment and operation o f participatory processes in each o f the jurisdictions where it
is supporting local governments.     Two o f the five local governments that the proposed project will
support are also being supported under the Bank-financed K-GRIP project. In these communities,
stakeholder forums are being created and local laws regarding participation being prepared and
adopted.    The LMPDP will link with the K-GRIP to reinforce the participatory processes and
institutions established under that project.    In the other communities, the project will assist local
governments in instituting participatory processes that ensure that the diverse views o f stakeholder
groups are taken into account in all local decisions regarding land matters. It will therefore assist local


                                                - 86 -

government in organizing and running stakeholder forums involving representatives o f government,
academia, the private sector, NGOs, local communities, investors, real estate interests, and others as
appropriate. It will also assist with recording and publishing the results o f meetings, and in instituting
other processes that help to buildpublic consensus for action.




                                                - 87 -

                        Additional Annex 13: Anti-corruption Framework
             INDONESIA: Land Management and Policy Development Project

Summary

Almost all transactions in this project are vulnerable to corruption.         Apart from the corruption in
procurement, including overcharges for honorariums and costs, the project is also vulnerable to corruption
from government employees who expect "thanksgiving money" (bribes) from beneficiaries and contractors.
Land owners also have to bribe the contractors for surveys and private individuals who are recruited from
the community to become part o f the adjudication teams. Overall, land owners usually have to bribe around
three to five percent of fees to facilitate all the work. The contractors similarly have to bribe (usually an
higher amount) to get the contract and to get paid.

B P N and the other implementing agencies want to address corruption through better project design, and by
strengthening intemal controls and mechanisms for transparency and accountability. They support the use
o f systematic land titling over a sporadic approach - a design which is not only less costly but results in
less corruption as well.     Similarly they will strengthen internal controls by adopting general Bank
safeguards for procurement and financial management. In addition, they have agreed to the following
specific mitigation measures: (a) Enhanced disclosure provisions; (b) Standardization o f procurement and
financial management processes and documents; (c) Development and monitoring o f service standards for
land management and administration institutions; (d) Partnership with the Civil Society for independent
oversight and feedback; (e) Robust complaint handling mechanisms with sanctions in place for corruption,
collusion, and nepotism; and (f) Financial accountability through strengthened internal controls on project
implementation and payment validation.

Most importantly, the implementing agencies have agreed to have a compliance/anti-corruption task force
financed under the project to integrate the various efforts and develop `the dialogue on the issue o f
"thanksgiving money" within the agencies. This task force will also spearhead the project's complaint
handling mechanism and in turn will be monitored by an independent extemal (non-governmental)
institution. The rest o f the annex details the mitigation measures after giving a sense, with the use o f
corruption mapping, o f where and how the project is most vulnerable to corruption.

CorruptionMapping

Substantial risk o f corruption, particularly from bribes, exists at every step in this project. All key actors,
BPN, BAPPENAS, and MOHA, are affected by it as are almost all institutions inIndonesia - inthe public
sector or private sector. Below we outline the areas which are most vulnerable inthis project: procurement
o f goods and services, validation o f payments to adjudication teams and survey contractors, and direct
contact with the public/contractors.

(i)      On procurement, for all levels and all implementing agencies, the concern is to ensure efficient and
         effective use o f funds through procedures such as national competitive bidding and national
         shopping. It is anticipated that since most project packages will be procured and implemented at
         the provincial level, where staff may not have prior training or experience in procurement,
         fiduciary risks will be pronounced. Some limited amount of procurement are planned at the
         kebupaten levels (below the provincial level) and would require similar attention to staff training.
         Moreover, because o f the business is repeated, contractors have incentive to collude. Collusive
         practices amongst bidders have been reported in the past and sanctions have not always been



                                                     - 88 -

         enforced properly. At the national level, the staff is better trained but still susceptible to the same
         practices o f accepting bribes. There will be fewer procurement packages but the average amounts
         inthese packages are larger, attracting corrupt practices from more powerfulstaff.

(ii)     On validation o f payments to contractors and beneficiaries, prior experience in Bank financed
         projects suggests that current government procedures rely on weak documentary trails, and have
         inadequate checks and balances over satisfactory completion o f work and authorization o f
         payments. This has been seen to apply particularly to `soft' expenses on different kinds o f services,
         such as training and workshop expenses and expenditure on consultants where outputs may be
         harder to measure and evaluate. Inthis project, payments for survey and adjudication are similar in
         nature and also o f a significant amount, and would therefore be equally vulnerable, given the very
         nature o f this expense and since these will be authorized and paid out in each o f the 76 regional
         land offices.

(iii)    Any interaction with the public or contractors are susceptible to corruption, because cash bribes or
         bribes-in-kind leave no paper trails, and the affected people want to move on or are resignedto the
         status quo. The beneficiary is quite happy as long as the service (such as, a new title to his land) i s
         delivered, and the contractor/consultant is happy to continue to prosper under the present system
         by paying the bribe and possibly buildinginto the price any cost for doing Government business.

The corruption mapping needs to be developed further as the project progresses, particularly for activities
financed under component five with MOHA. Inthat component, the initial step is to study the performance
o f local governments in undertaking land management related tasks which were recently devolved to them.
As a part o f the study, the threats of corruption in the work of the local government functions will be
documented and measures to address them developed.

Mitigation measures

The standard measures to improve procurement and financial management are appended as Annex 6A and
6B. Here we discuss the specific mitigation measures that would be utilized to reduce corruption under the
project  .

Enhanced disclosure provisions

To facilitate external review in general, the project will pursue an enhanced disclosure policy. For
example, the various implementing agencies under the project will:


0         Make publicly available all audit reports and the mid-termreview;
0         Make publicly available all annual procurement plans and schedules;
          Make publicly available all biddingdocuments and requests;
0         Makepublicly available all short lists ofconsultants and, incases ofpre-qualification, lists of
         pre-qualified contractors and suppliers;
0         Disclose to all bidders and parties submittingproposals for specific contracts, promptly after the
         notification o f award to the successful bidderlconsultant, the summary o f the evaluation o f
          all bids;
0        Allow representatives o f the end-users o f the goods or works being procured to attend the public
         bid openings;




                                                      -89 -

0         Make available a list o f all contracts awarded in the three months preceding the date of such
          request in respect o f a project, including the name o f the contractoriconsultant, the contract
          amount, the number o f bidderdmakers o f proposals, and the procurement method followed and the
          purpose o f the contract; and
0         Maintain and make publicly available the date o f each payment in any contract and the date of
          request for such a payment, with explanation for the reason for any inordinate delay in a payment.


Standardization

The largest expenditure category under the project would be "Title Development Costs", including costs o f
surveying, transport costs and allowances o f adjudicators, and land recording and titling. These activities
will be systematically replicated at various locations and are, therefore, amenable to standardization. Some
o f the standard procedures the project would consider are:

e         Agreement on a standard wording o f advertisements (no changes to be allowed in general
          provisions during implementation except for provisions specific to a particular procurement).
0         Agreement on the list o f newspapers of nation-wide circulation in which specific advertisements
          will be placed. The idea is to advertise innational newspapers systematically, removing geographic
          and other restrictions, permitting greater competition among suppliers.
0         Agreement on all standard biddingand contract documents (including for NCB, NS), and request
          for proposals (for consultancy services), including an agreement that no firther changes can be
          made inthe documents without the Bank`s prior approval.
0          Publicationo f prices paid for items at different locations.


The second largest expenditure category would be "Consultants", including costs for TA and Training.
Again many o f the activities under this category would be repeated in various locations and are, therefore,
amenable to similar standardization.

Sewice Standards Development and Monitoring

BPN land offices and Kabupaten Government would provide the land related services. For these service,
developing and monitoring service standards will reduce opportunities o f corruption because o f greater
transparency and greater comparability across locations.            In case of BPN land offices, 90 percent
consistent compliance with service standards would be the goal, and when the performance falls below 70
percent, remedies would be agreed which would include special reviews.

Because o f the limited experience of the Kabupaten Government, service standard development would have
to preceded by an in-depth assessment o f the service, which will also propose changes instandard operating
procedures. The assessmentmay also include corruption mapping.

These service standards would be publicly available. Also publicly available would be list o f landowners
who would receive titles within one month, permitting the beneficiaries to find out the status o f their
application for a title (subject to any privacy consideration).




                                                       - 90 -

Civil Society Oversight and Feedback

Overall, key project activities will be monitoredby an independentnational consulting firm, university, or a
NGO. Because procurement of goods and services is so vulnerable to corrupt practices, procurement
committees will include external (non-governmental) members. In addition, for systematic land titling
where 70 percent o f project expenditure is planned, civil society oversight and feedback will be maintained
through the adjudication teams (AT).

About half the members of the AT will come from BPN but the other half will come from the communities
where the titling activity is undertaken. The ATs are expected to act as a bridge between land related
service providers and beneficiaries. Beneficiaries come in contact with the land service providers
infrequently and have little interest to invest substantial time understandingthe processes o f the land service
providers including their service standards. The ATs would simplify matters for the beneficiaries, making
the processes o f the land service providers more transparent, bringing accountability in the providers, as
well as recommending improvements.          From the ATs, the beneficiaries will learn how the project is
supposed to work, what their rights are and what to do if they are unhappy and suspect foul play. Focus
groups and other mechanisms will be employed to make a "democratic" selection o f the community
members o f the ATs. The project will also encourage the selection o f members, both from B P N and from
the community, more service oriented. Detailed procedures for these will be included in the Project
Management Manual to be adopted by the Borrower. Finally, the project will also encourage students, with
scholarships, so that they study various aspects o f the system as part o f their thesis work.

Complaints handling mechanisms and the use of sanctions

Inthe project management structure, a task force will deal with all compliance issues. This task force will
ensure that all complaints are recorded and results o f the investigations maintained for review. It will
establish a reasonable time for dealing with complaints and seek explanations when delays are
unreasonable. Anonymous complaints will be treated in the same way as those that can be traced, and in
all cases the sources will be kept strictly confidential. It will maintain a hot line and a postal address to
make it easier to make complaints. When appropriate, the task force will refer cases to the internal auditor,
to the BPKP (state auditor) or to the Police. If a case is not resolved to the satisfaction o f the Bank, the
case will be reviewed by BPKP who might refer it then for hrther review by the Office o f the Attorney
General. The activities o f the task team itself will be monitored by the independent institution which will be
hiredunder the project to monitor the project.

In addition, the project proposes to strengthen the existing mechanisms o f the implementing agencies to
handle most o f the complaints. The complaints are expected to be investigated initially at the level where
they originate. In BPN, this would be mainly at the landoffices for titling related cases, or the provincial
office for cases relating to contracting surveys. Ifthey remain unresolved, they will be taken up at a higher
level. In BPN, the complaints handling unit (known as the conflict resolution unit) at the headquarters
handles about 400 cases per year. Most o f these are actually conflicts between landowners, but there are
conflicts between individuals and B P N as well, which are reviewed by this unit. On systematic landtitling,
most o f the complaints are handled by the adjudication team, may be because they have community
members in those teams. Only three cases on an average come per year to the unit at headquarters.
Though rare, investigations by this unit has led to dismissal from service, or jail term for the guilty (when
they had defrauded the Treasury).



                                                       -91  -

Inall the implementing agencies, staff are responsible for enforcing and obeying the rules and regulations,
and they make them subject to challenge and to sanction, when appropriate, for neglecting or bending those
rules and regulations. Similarly, there are guiding regulations (Keppres 18) for contractors which these
agencies follow.    For contractors found guilty, the project also proposes disbarment from any Bank
financed contracts for a period o f three years.

Financial accountability through strengthened internal controls on project implementation and payment
validation.

Financial accountability for project expenditure will be enhanced by incorporating strengthened internal
control procedures, in particular for documenting completion o f project activities and validation o f
payments. Existing internal control procedures for each kind o f activity, project expenditure and
corresponding payment validation procedures will be strengthened based on the following principles, to
help reduce risks o f fraud and collusion.

(i)     Land survey and adjudication expenses at land offices will be authorized under joint authorities
        involving community based members of adjudication teams, and work completion will be publicly
        disclosed.
(ii)    For technical assistance, workshop and training activities the agency receiving training will be
        required to certify satisfactory completion before training expenses are reimbursed to the provider.
        Direct evidence o f training imparted, details o f participants and documentary support for travel
        incurred will be required before payments to contractors or vendors are authorized.
(iii)   Documentary trails required for completion o f project activities and claims for expenditure will be
        specified.

Detailed procedures for these will be included inthe Project Management Manual to be adopted by the
Borrower.




                                                    - 92 -

