Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3884-IND 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Land Management and Policy Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 2, 2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3884-IND 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the 
financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower 
and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is making a loan to the Borrower in the 
amount of thirty-two million eight hundred thousand Dollars ($32,800,000) (the Loan); 
and 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan 
provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Accountability and Transparency Strategy” means the strategy for (i) 
ensuring appropriate accountability and transparency in the Borrower’s implementation 
of the Project, and (ii) strengthening the overall transparency and accountability of BPN’s 
operations and improving its service delivery, adopted by BPN on March 3, 2004, as such 
Strategy may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association.   
(b) 
“BAPPENAS” means the Borrower’s National Development Planning 
Agency, and any successor thereto.  
(c) 
“BPN” means  the Borrower’s National Land Agency, and any successor 
thereto. 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 7 set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(e) 
 “Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement. 
(f) 
“Eligible Kabupaten” means a Kabupaten or a Kota selected for 
participation in any of Parts C.2, D.3, E.2 or E.3 of the Project in accordance with the 
terms of paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(h) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing 
January 1 and ending December 31. 
(i) 
“Isolated Vulnerable Persons” (masyarakat asli yang terpinggirkan) 
means those social groups in Indonesia that have a distinct social and cultural identity, 
and that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the development process induced by 
the Project or any part thereof. 
(j) 
“Kabupaten” means a district, an administrative division of the 
Borrower. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“Keppres 34” means Presidential Decree 34/2003 on the clarification of 
responsibilities on land affairs between the national-level government and regional-level 
governments.  
(l) 
“Kota” means a municipality, an administrative division of the Borrower. 
(m) 
“LIS” means a land information system to be developed under Part D of 
the Project. 
(n) 
“LMPDP Coordinating Committee” means the inter-agency committee 
established by Kep-27/M.EKON/06/2001,
 
responsible for overall guidance and 
coordination of Project activities. 
(o) 
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be amended 
from time to time; and such term includes the “General Conditions applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Loan Agreement. 
(p) 
“MOHA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs, and any 
successor thereto. 
(q) 
 “Project Management Manual” means the manual adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) and paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, as such Project Management Manual may be amended from time to time 
with the prior agreement of the Association.  
(r) 
“PIUs” means the project implementation units established within 
BAPPENAS, BPN and MOHA, and maintained in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, each responsible for carrying out those 
Project implementation activities assigned to such ministry and agencies in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.01 to this Agreement and of the Project Management 
Manual. 
(s) 
“PMU” means the project management unit established within BPN, and 
maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, responsible for overall management of the Project. 
(t) 
“Social, Environmental and Participation Guidelines” means the 
guidelines adopted by the Borrower on March 3, 2004, setting forth the measures to be 
Page  5
-
4
-
taken (i) to eliminate or offset adverse social and environmental impacts during the 
implementation of the Project or to reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, and setting 
forth the actions needed to implement such measures, and (ii) to ensure the informed 
involvement of stakeholders in the design and implementation of the Project, including 
the participation of Isolated Vulnerable People with respect to Parts A.2 and 3 of the 
Project, and the setting out of the role of non-governmental organizations and community 
members and leaders in systematic land titling, and the role of stakeholders in monitoring 
the service standards of BPN land offices; as such Guidelines may be amended from time 
to time with the prior agreement of the Association.  
(u) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million nine hundred forty thousand  Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,940,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
Page  6
-
5
-
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2014 and ending February 15, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2024 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
Page  7
-
6
-
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out    
 Part A of the Project through BAPPENAS, Parts B,C and D of the Project through BPN, 
and Part E of the Project through MOHA, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and 
land management practices, and social and environmental standards acceptable to the 
Association, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
Page  8
-
7
-
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Association), 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of  reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) enable 
th
e
Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 14 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
Page  10
-
9
-
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall make publicly available, and agrees that the 
Association may also make publicly available, each final audit report referred to in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, promptly after its issuance by the independent auditors 
referred to therein. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified namely that Keppres 34/2003 shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, have been fulfilled; 
 
(b) 
the Project Management Manual, acceptable to the Association, has been 
adopted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the final evaluation report with respect to the engagement of a consulting 
firm for Project financial management services under Part B.5 of the Project (the contract 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
for which services are included in the plan for the selection of consultants referred to in 
Section II, Part D.1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement) has been submitted to the 
Association.  
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Social, Environmental and 
Participation Framework has been adopted by the Borrower and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Indonesia. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
 Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
c/o Directorate General of Budget  
 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
 
P.O. Box 1139 
 
Jakarta 10710 
 
Indonesia 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
 
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 Jakarta 
   44319 
DEPKEU-IA 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By 
/s/ Achmad Rochjadi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Andrew Steer 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
Part A
.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR 
Equivalent
)
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars
)
%
of
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) 
Civil Works  
490,000 
240,000 
70% 
(2) 
Goods  
860,000 
1,200,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) 
and 80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
and studies 
2,300,000 3,550,000 
100% 
(4) 
Contract Services for 
Mapping and 
Cadastral Surveys
6,470,000 11,650,000 
80% 
 
(5) Training 
and 
Workshops 
1,480,000 2,480,000 
100% 
(6) Land 
Registration 
Costs 
7,615,000 10,650,000 
70% 
(7) Incremental 
Operating Costs 
2,725,000 550,000 
100% 
until 
December 
31, 2006 
and 50% 
thereafter 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in  
SDR Equivalent
)
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed 
(in dollars
)
%
of 
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(8)
Front 
–end 
Fee 
-- 
328,000 
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of the 
Loan Agreement 
(9)
Unallocated
2,152,000  
 
_________ __________ 
 
 TOTAL 
21,940,000
32,800,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures 
incurred by the PMU and the PIUs (which expenditures would not have been incurred 
should text in Parenthesis read as stated? absent the Project) for audit costs, rental of 
office space, utilities, communications, consumables, staff travel (including per diem), 
costs of contractual support staff, but excluding  salaries, salary supplements, allowances 
and honoraria of the Borrower’s civil service;  
(d) 
the terms “training” and “workshops” mean reasonable expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the holding of training or workshops, as the 
case may be, under the Project, including the travel costs and per diem of (i) the trainers 
and trainees, in the case of training, and of (ii) the organizers and participants, in the case 
of workshops, and the rental of facilities and the acquisition of training or workshop 
materials, as the case may be; 
(e) 
the term “mapping and cadastral surveys costs” means reasonable 
expenditures incurred in the development of geodetic ground control points, aerial 
photography and orthophoto maps, and cadastral survey maps; and 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
(f) 
the term “Land Registration Costs” means expenditures incurred by the 
land registration teams retained by BPN in the review and issuance of land titles, 
including expenditures for: per diem and travel, costs of contract staff (but excluding 
salaries, salary supplements, allowances and honoraria of the Borrower’s civil service),  
materials and supplies for adjudication teams, and community organization and 
awareness work, including community volunteer per diems, and the production and 
distribution of flyers and other public information material.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) contracts for goods costing 
up to $100,000 equivalent and works costing up to $200,000 equivalent; (ii) contracts for 
the employment of consulting firms costing up to $100,000 equivalent; (iii) contracts for 
the employment of individuals costing up to $50,000 equivalent; (iv) training and 
workshops; (v) land registration costs; and (vi) incremental operating costs; all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request.  
 
Part B
.
Special Account 
1. 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, in the 
case of a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part B of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in paragraph 5 of Part A of this Schedule adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part B of this Schedule if, at 
any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
ANNEX A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.  
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.  
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 3 of Part B of this Schedule 1 for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
ANNEX B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: 
(a) 
the amount so requested; and 
(b) 
the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Part A of Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in reducing poverty and 
stimulating economic growth through: (i) improving land tenure security, and enhancing 
the efficiency and transparency of delivery of land titling and registration services; and 
(ii) strengthening local government capacity to undertake land management functions 
efficiently and transparently. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A.
Development of Land Policies
1. 
Development of government capacity at the national level to formulate land 
policy by strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to formulate land policies and 
propose revisions of laws and regulations, through, inter alia, the establishment of a land 
policy secretariat within BAPPENAS to undertake policy analysis and studies, coordinate 
public consultations, propose policy recommendations to the LMPDP Coordinating 
Committee. 
2. 
 Formulation and socialization of a national land policy, including carrying out a 
process of consultations with relevant stakeholders and the dissemination of information. 
3. 
Development of national policies for land administration and management, 
including the carrying out of policy reviews and studies. 
Part B.
BPN Institutional Development, Capacity Building and Training 
1. 
The development and subsequent implementation of a long-term strategic plan 
for BPN, including: (a) the development, implementation and monitoring of uniform 
service standards for transparent and efficient service delivery and programs for 
monitoring of land office performance and responsiveness; (b) the development and 
implementation of a human resources management strategy for BPN; (c) the introduction 
of a modular training program; and (d) the development of uniform procedures for 
records management and increased levels of computerization to improve efficiency and 
transparency. 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
2. 
Streamlining access to the services of selected BPN land offices to encourage and 
facilitate land registration by: (a) developing and carrying out a program for applying 
improved operational procedures to meet the revised service standards (developed under 
Part A.1 of the Project) and monitoring community satisfaction with service delivery; and 
(b) developing and supporting the carrying out of activities to encourage community 
participation in land registration. 
3. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the legal department of BPN to 
develop policy and draft laws and regulations. 
4. 
Developing the capacity of local academic institutions to provide quality 
programs in land administration through formal courses of study and short courses.  
5. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of BPN to carry out its management 
responsibilities under the Project, including monitoring and evaluation.  
Part C.
Implementation of an Accelerated Land Titling Program
1. 
Strengthening community awareness and participation in systematic and sporadic 
titling programs, and land transaction registration, by developing and carrying out a 
program of (a) information dissemination (including the use of media, workshops and 
focus group meetings), and (b) collecting community land profiles for areas to be covered 
by systematic land titling outside the island of Java, to describe land tenure profiles and 
the existence of any customary land tenure arrangements, and to identify any pre-existing 
land disputes.   
2. 
Carrying out a program for the issuance of about 2.5 million land title certificates 
by systematic registration in selected land office jurisdictions (including community 
education and participation through, inter alia, the recruitment of community members 
into systematic adjudication teams).   
3. 
Streamlining sporadic land registration operations (titling on demand), including: 
(a) the carrying out of a study for rationalizing fee structures on the basis of cost recovery 
and the use of the private sector to undertake cadastral surveys; (b) a review of service 
standards and community perceptions to encourage application for first title registration 
and the registration of subsequent property transactions; and (c) the carrying out of  a 
study to review derivative registrations to gauge community understanding of the benefit 
of titles, and to identify barriers for subsequent transactions, including perception, cost 
(both formal and informal), access to land office, and time taken.  
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
4. 
Developing the capacity of the private sector to provide land surveying services, 
inter alia, by carrying out a study on existing and required survey capacity, reviewing 
relevant land surveying courses established in academic institutions to assess their 
quality, reviewing existing legislation for licensing of surveyors, developing where 
appropriate new regulations to govern industry practice, and taking measures to promote 
the formation of viable industry association. 
Part D.
Developing a Land Information System 
1. 
Developing a national land information strategy on data sharing and data 
standards among relevant agencies of the Borrower.  
 
2. 
Establishing an LIS infrastructure, including the development of technical 
standards (including data standards, a regime of data administration covering all relevant 
agencies of the Borrower, data dictionaries/feature catalogues, metadata and a corporate 
LIS data model) and the formulation of LIS policies required for the development of a 
national LIS as identified in Part D.1 of the Project (including data sharing and data 
maintenance arrangements involving all relevant government agencies; LIS training 
needs; fees and charges; public access to land information; and data privacy. 
 
3. 
Carrying out an LIS pilot in a selected kabupaten for the development and testing 
of a range of potential integrated land information products and services, including a 
prototype inventory of all land assets managed by different levels of government, 
potential land management e-government services and inter-agency data maintenance 
linkages.  
 
Part E.
Capacity Building for Local Government in Land Management
1. 
Carrying out an in-depth assessment of the capacity of local government entities 
to perform their land management functions under Keppres 34, and the development of 
policy and operational procedures recommendations for the appropriate carrying out of 
such functions by such entities.  
 
2. 
Developing capacity on a pilot basis within about five selected local government 
entities for the appropriate performance of such functions as participatory land use 
planning and Ijin Lokasi (location permit), community mapping  and dispute settlement 
resolution.  
 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
3. 
Preparing a strategic plan to expand the program of capacity-building carried out 
under Part E.2 of the Project to other local government entities. 
 
4. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MOHA to carry out its responsibilities 
to support local governments in undertaking land management pursuant to Keppres 34 
and its management responsibilities for Part E of the Project, including monitoring and 
evaluation. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 3 and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule 3. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works (including works for cadastral surveys, mapping and data conversion) and 
goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
amount for contracts for works and goods not to exceed $33,200,000  equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines and in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 3. 
2. National 
Shopping
Office equipment estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the execution of the 
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or more and contracts for cadastral surveys estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$100,000 or more; and (iii) the first contract for goods or works estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of  $100,000 or $200,000, as the case may be, to be procured by each 
PIU on the basis of national competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Section 1, Part C of this Schedule 3, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract for goods to be procured on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 
2
of
Section 1, Part C of this Schedule 3, the following procedures shall apply: 
Page  27
-
26 - 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of the supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of the contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 
and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule 3. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the monitoring of service standards under Part B of the Project 
estimated to cost up to $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
Page  28
-
27 - 
 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Contracts for services for community participation and social/socio-economic 
base-line and impact assessments under Part C.2 of the Project which are estimated to 
cost up to $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, provided, however, that individual consultants may, with the Association’s 
prior approval, be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and the first such contract to be 
awarded under each of: (i) Part A of the Project, (ii) Parts B through D of the Project; and 
(iii) Part E of the Project, and estimated to cost less than $100,000, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  29
-
28 - 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants  estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications and 
experience of the candidates (in the case of candidates to be selected on a sole source 
basis) or the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of qualified 
candidates (in the case of individual consultants to be selected other than on a sole source 
basis) and the terms of reference and terms of employment of such consultants, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of 
 paragraph  3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  30
-
29 - 
 
ANNEX A 
To 
SCHEDULE 3 
Without limitation on the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement  (Schedule 
3) and of the Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines (as such terms are defined in said 
schedule and referred to hereafter as the Procurement Guidelines), the following  
provisions shall apply in respect of goods, works and consultants’ services to be procured 
under the Project: 
1. 
To ensure end-user participation in the procurement of goods, works and 
consultant services under the Project, the requestor/user of such goods, works or 
consultant services (as the case may be) to be acquired, shall be represented on the 
relevant procurement/selection committee. The criteria for the selection of procurement 
committee/selection members shall in all cases be consistent with the provisions of the 
Procurement Guidelines and the Project Management Manual (provided, however, that in 
the event of any inconsistency between the Project Management Manual and the 
Procurement Guidelines, the provisions of the Procurement Guidelines shall apply). 
2. 
The annual procurement plans and consultant selection plans referred to in 
Section I, Part D.1 and Section II, Part D.1 of Schedule 3, including all updates thereof; 
shall be made publicly available promptly after their finalization. 
3. 
All bidding documents and requests for proposals issued in accordance with 
Schedule 3 shall be made available to any member of the public promptly upon request, 
subject only to payment of a reasonable fee to cover the cost of printing and delivery.  In 
the case of requests for proposals, the relevant documents will only be made available 
after notification of award to the successful firm.  Each such document will continue to 
be made publicly available until a year after completion of the contract entered into for 
the goods, works or consultants’ services in question. 
4. 
All short lists of consultants and, in cases of pre-qualification, lists of pre-
qualified contractors and suppliers shall be made available to any member of the public 
promptly upon request. 
5. 
A summary of the evaluation of all bids and proposals for specific contracts shall 
be disclosed to all bidders and parties submitting proposals therefor, promptly after the 
notification of award to the successful bidder/consultant.  Information in such summaries 
will be limited to a list of bidders/consultants, all bid prices and financial proposals as 
read out at public openings for bids and financial proposals, all bids and proposals 
declared nonresponsive (together with reasons for such an assessment), the name of 
Page  31
-
30 - 
 
winning bidder/consultant and the contract price.  Such summaries will be made available 
to any member of the public promptly upon request. 
6. 
Contract award information for all contracts for goods and works of $100,000 
equivalent or more, and all contracts for consultants of $50,000 equivalent or more, shall 
be made publicly available, and be made available to any member of the public upon 
request, promptly after such award. 
7. 
A list of all contracts awarded in the three months preceding the date of such 
request, including, with respect to each such contract, the name of the 
contractor/consultant selected, the contract amount, the number of bidders/makers of 
proposals in respect thereof, the procurement method followed and the purpose of such 
contract shall be made available, promptly upon request by member of the public. 
8. 
Representatives of the end-users of goods or works being procured shall be 
permitted to attend public bid openings in respect thereof.  
Page  32
-
31 - 
 
ANNEX B  
To 
SCHEDULE 3 
1. General
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of Section I, Part C.1 to Schedule 3 of 
this Agreement, the procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding shall be 
those set forth in Presidential Decree No. 80/2003 of the Republic of Indonesia with the 
clarifications and modifications described in the following paragraphs required for 
compliance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the “Guidelines”). 
2. Registration
(a) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms and shall not be a 
condition for participation in the bidding process.  
 
(b) 
Where registration is required prior to award of contract, bidders: (i) 
shall be allowed a reasonable time to complete the registration process; and (ii) shall not 
be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and resources to 
successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification. 
3. Pre-qualification
Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works. Normally, post-
qualification shall be used. Pre-qualification shall be required only for large or complex 
works with the prior ‘no objection’ of the Association. When pre-qualification shall be 
required: 
 
(a) 
eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-
qualification; and  
 
(b) 
 invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of 30 days prior to the deadline 
for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
4. Joint 
Ventures
A
bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to 
form a joint venture or to sub-contract part of the work or part of the supply of goods as a 
condition of award of the contract. 
Page  33
-
32 - 
 
5. Preferences
(a) 
No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
(b) 
Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and 
local regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding procedures to a class of 
contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement procedures 
under the Development Credit Agreement. 
6. Advertising
(a) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of 30 days for the preparation and 
submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to purchase bidding documents up to 
24 hours prior to the deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(b) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee. 
 
(c) 
Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit 
responsible for procurement shall be allowed to participate regardless of the estimated 
value of the contract. 
 
(d) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration 
process is required, a foreign firm declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a 
reasonable opportunity for registering. 
7. Bid 
Security
Bid security, at the bidder’s option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or 
bank guarantee from a reputable bank. 
 
8. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids, and if bids are invited in two envelopes, both envelopes (technical 
and price) shall be opened at the same time. 
 
(b) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
bidder. 
 
(c) 
Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of 
minor, non-substantial deviations. 
Page  34
-
33 - 
 
(d) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the 
owner’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Association’s prior concurrence. 
9. 
Rejection of Bids
(a) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Association’s prior concurrence. 
 
(b) 
When the number of responsive bids is less than three, re-bidding shall 
not be carried out without the Association’s prior concurrence. 
 
Page  35
-
34 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain until completion of the Project, with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association, the PMU and the PIUs; and (b) provide, or cause 
to be provided, as the case may be, each PIU at all times with adequate funds and other 
resources, and with qualified and experienced personnel in adequate numbers, acceptable 
to the Association and in all cases as shall be necessary to accomplish its terms of 
reference and objectives. 
2. 
The Borrower, through BPN, shall adopt and thereafter cause the PIUs to apply, a 
Project Management Manual acceptable to the Association for the carrying out of the 
Project or their respective responsibilities therefore, as the case may be. Such Project 
Management Manual shall include the description of, inter alia: (a) the procurement 
procedures set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the Annexes thereto; (b) standard 
procurement documentation; (c) reporting requirements, financial management 
procedures and audit procedures as set out in Article 4 of this Agreement; (d) the 
standards and criteria set out in the Social, Environmental and Participation Guidelines; 
and (e) the Project Performance Indicators set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, suspend, 
abrogate or waive the Project Management Manual or any part thereof. 
3. 
Without limitation upon the provisions and requirements of the Project 
Management Manual, the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Social, Environmental and 
Participation Guidelines.  
4. 
The Borrower shall, through BPN, take all such action as shall be necessary to 
ensure that: 
(a) 
not later than July 31 in each year, commencing July 31 2004, and until 
completion of the Project, a draft annual work program for all components of the Project 
to be implemented during the following Fiscal Year is prepared and furnished to the 
Association for its review and comments, including: (i) the scope of the work program; 
(ii) time-based implementation schedules; (iii) cost estimates; and (iv) budget 
arrangements; and 
(b) 
not later than October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 2004, 
finalize the above-mentioned work program for implementation, taking into account the 
comments of the Association thereon. 
Page  36
-
35 - 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, through BPN, carry out until completion of the Project  the 
Accountability and Transparency Strategy. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall, through BAPPENAS, (a) complete the consultation process 
on the development of a  draft national land policy under Part A of the Project by no later 
than  December 31, 2004, in accordance with a public consultation plan acceptable to the 
Association, which plan shall include provision for the consultation of communities 
holding land pursuant to customary land rights (adat law); (b) by March 31, 2005, 
disseminate the draft policy for comments from relevant stakeholders, non-governmental 
organizations and members of the official donor community, and the Association; and 
 (c) after taking into account the comments received , take all such measures necessary 
for the finalization of said policy in a timely manner. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall cause all training components under the Project to be carried 
out in accordance with an overall training program acceptable to the Association, which 
program shall be prepared by BPN and MOHA and consolidated by BPN by no later than 
October 31 of each year, starting October 31, 2004, and included in the annual work 
program referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule 4. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project the LMPDP 
Coordinating Committee.  
 
9. 
In carrying out Part B of the Project the Borrower shall, through BPN: 
 
(a) 
not later than December 31, 2005, furnish to the Association for its 
review and comment draft minimum service standards and a time-bound plan for their 
implementation and for the monitoring thereof; 
 
(b) 
thereafter adopt minimum service standards and carry out said 
implementation and monitoring plan in a timely manner, taking into account in each case 
the comments of the Association, if any,  on said standards and plan;  
(c) 
engage, by not later than December 31, 2006, an independent monitoring 
entity to monitor, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
compliance by local BPN land offices with the minimum service standards referred to in 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 9;  
(d) 
not later than January 31, 2006, prepare and furnish to the Association 
for its review and comment: (i) a draft long-term strategic plan for the purpose of  
strengthening BPN (including its local offices) to undertake its mandate (including its 
land administration function) efficiently, effectively and transparently; and (ii) a human 
resource management plan to identify the human resources needed for BPN and its local 
offices
 
to carry out successfully such strategic plan, including skills mix and staff 
numbers, training requirements, career path criteria, and staff incentives; and  
Page  37
-
36 - 
 
(e) 
thereafter adopt and implement said long-term strategic plan and human 
resource plan in a timely manner, taking into account in each case the comments of the 
Association, if any, on the draft plans furnished to the Association pursuant to the terms 
of sub-paragraph (d) of this paragraph 9. 
 
10. 
In carrying out Part D of the Project the Borrower shall, through BPN: 
 
(a) 
not later than June 30, 2006, furnish to the Association for its review and 
comment a draft land information strategy outlining, inter alia, spatial data sharing 
mechanisms and spatial data standards;  
 
(b) 
thereafter adopt and implement a land information strategy in a timely 
manner, taking into account the comments of the Association, if any, on the draft strategy 
furnished to the Association pursuant to the terms of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
 paragraph 10. 
 
11. 
The Borrower shall: (a) through BPN, select the Kabupatens and/or 
municipalities  that will participate in Parts C.2 and D.3 of the Project: and (b) through 
MOHA, select the Kabupatens and/or municipalities  that will participate in Parts E.2 and 
E.3, in each case in accordance with eligibility and selection criteria and procedures 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
12. 
Without limitation upon the requirements of the Project Management Manual or 
the provisions of paragraph 11 of this Schedule 4, expenditures in respect of civil works 
proposed for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit under Part E.2 of the Project in 
an eligible Kabupaten shall only be eligible for said financing:  
 
(a) 
when the proposal for said civil works has been prepared by said 
Kabupaten or by BPN, as the case may be, in accordance with the Social, Environmental 
and Participation Guidelines; and 
 
(b) 
where said Kabupaten or BPN, as the case may be, has confirmed in 
writing to MOHA that no acquisition of land or assets, and no displacement of any 
person, are contemplated under such proposal, or will occur during the carrying out 
thereof.  
 
13. 
For the purposes of  Part E.3 of the Project  the Borrower shall, through MOHA, 
not later than December 31, 2007, furnish to the Association for its review and comment 
a
draft strategic plan for expanding to other local governments the support provided 
under Part E.2 of the Project. 
 
Page  38
-
37 - 
 
14. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Bank, by March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing 
 September 1, 2004, and until completion of the Project, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 14, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
preceding six months and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the six 
months following such date, which measures shall include (i) in each report due by 
September 1 in any year, a detailed procurement plan for carrying out the Project during 
the next fiscal year following the date of such report, and (ii) in each report due by 
 March 1 in any year, an update of the detailed procurement plan for the fiscal year in 
which such month falls; 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, on or about March 31 and September 30 of 
each year, commencing 2005, or such later date as the Association shall request, the 
report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 14, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof during the twelve months following the date of such report, 
based on the conclusions and
 recommendations of said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter; 
 
(d) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 1, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 14, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(e) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (d) of this paragraph 14, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter; and 
 
(f) 
make publicly available the report referred to in sub-paragraph (e) of this 
paragraph 14 at the same time as it is furnished to the Association pursuant to said sub-
paragraph. 
Page  39
-
38 - 
 
15. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
cause to be prepared, and furnish to the Association by not later than six 
(6) months after the Closing Date, an evaluation report of the Project; and  
 
(b) 
for the purposes of monitoring the socio-economic and environmental 
impact of the Project, ensure that a socio-economic and environmental impact base-line 
survey be initiated by March 31, 2005, and a follow up survey by no later than 
 December 31, 2008.  
Page  40
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Performance Indicators 
Project Development Objective: 
Outcome / Impact Indicators: 
Land tenure security improved 
Strengthened perception of land tenure 
security 
Increase access to formal credit 
Increase of formal land markets activities  
Increase investment in agriculture land 
and property development 
Increase in land values  
 
Efficiency and transparency of land titling 
and registration improved 
Increase satisfaction rate in land 
registration  
Increased in percentage of subsequent 
transactions registered in land office 
Decreased number of complains about 
land registration  
Decrease in informal payment in land 
registration process  
Capacity of local government in land 
management enhanced 
Satisfaction of land services (land 
management) rises 
Page  41
Output from each Part of the 
Project: 
Output Indicators: 
Part A 
Government’s capacity to formulate 
land policy improved 
 
New National Land Policy 
Framework developed 
 
Priority land policies and regulatory 
instruments formulated and adopted 
 
Completion of consultation of National Land Policy by 
December 31, 2004, submission of white paper by 
March 31, 2005 for adoption by the Government  
 
Policies on 
adat and communal 
land prepared;  draft 
regulations prepared and submitted for adoption by 
September 30, 2007 
 
Policy on land use and spatial planning will be 
prepared and submitted for adoption by December 
2007 
 
Policy on land distribution will be prepared and 
submitted for adoption by June 2006 
 
Study on simplification of  land tenure instruments, 
including state land completed and submitted for 
adoption by June 2008  
 
Tax and fee structure study completed by December 
2006 
 
Land markets study complete by December 31, 2006 
 
Study on provision of land for public infrastructure and 
compensation completed by December 2006 
 
Part B 
Land administration institutions 
strengthened and operational 
capacity and service levels 
improved 
 
BPN long-term strategic plan and Human Resources 
Management Development Plan is approved and 
adopted by December 31, 2005 
 
Five model land office re-engineered and operational 
by June, 2007, and 15 by the completion of the Project 
Minimum service standards developed, agreed and 
monitoring system in place by December 31, 2006 
 
All re-engineered land offices meeting 70% of services 
standards by December 31, 2007 and 90% of the 
standards by the completion of the Project 
 
Land Administration and Management Education 
Program established and operational by August 2007 
 
Page  42
Output from each Part of the Project: 
Output Indicators: 
 
Part C 
Titles are issued effectively and 
efficiently 
 
Private surveying sector developed 
 
One million titles issued by systematic land titling by 
mid-term review and 1.5 million more titles by 
completion of the Project 
 
95% of titles collected by beneficiaries 
 
90% of systematic titling parcels adjudicated, 
surveyed and registered 
 
Percentage of land titles issued in name of women or 
in joint ownership 
 
Part D 
Information system for decentralized and 
improved land administration and 
management is created and functioning 
well 
 
LIS strategy developed and adopted by December 
31, 2006 
Key LIS data sharing, access and pricing policy, and 
data standards (as identified in LIS strategy) 
finalized and adopted by June 30, 2007 
 
National LIS implementation plan completed by 
December 31, 2007 
Part E 
Experience of local government in land 
management function reviewed and 
capacity assessed 
 
Local governments strengthened to 
efficiently undertake land management 
functions    
 
Assessment Report completed by March 31, 2006 
and national regulations developed and issued by 
December 31, 2006 
 
100 local governments receive training by March 
2007 and all local governments by completion of the 
Project  
 
Piloting of local land management initiatives 
initiated by January 2005  
 
Strategic plan for broader support to local 
governments in land management is complete and 
adopted by December 2007 
 
