Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23319
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39100; SCL-39106)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$210 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHNA
FOR AN
INLAND WATERWAYS PROJECT
December 27, 2001
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.12
US$ 1.00 = Yuan 8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
dwt          dead weight ton
EIRR          Econornic Internal Rate of Return
FIDIC         Federation Intemationale Ingenieurs-Conseils
FIRR          Financial Internal Rate of Return
GCD           Guangxi Conmnunications Department
GOC           Govemment of China
GXJPH         Guangxi Xijiang Project Headquarters
GXWCDC        Guangxi Xijiang Waterway Construction and Development Corporation
HaP           Hangzhou Port
HeP          Hengyang Port
HPCD         Hunan Provincial Communications Department
HXNCDC        Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and Development Corporation
HuP          Huzhou Port
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IWW          Inland Waterway
IWT          Iland Water Transportation
JP           Jiaxing Port
MOC          Ministry of Communications
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NPV          Net Present Value
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SOE          State-owned Enterprise
TTL          Task Team Leader
ZNAB         Zhejiang Navigation Administration Bureau
ZP           Zhuzhou Port
ZPCD         Zhejiang Provincial Communications Department
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Toshiro Tsutsumi, EASTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
INLAND WATERWAYS
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   5
6. Sustainability                                                                       7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      9
9. Partner Comments                                                                    10
10. Additional Information                                                             25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   59
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   61
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      62
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  63
Map      IBRD 31723
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003493                                       Project Name: INLAND WATERWAYS
Team Leader: Toshiro Tsutsumi                             TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: INLAND WATERWAYS                               L/C/TFNumber: CPL-39100;
SCL-39106
Country/Department: CHINA                                                 Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TP - Ports & Waterways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/18/93                                 Effective:  11/29/95           11/29/95
Appraisal:  11/12/94                                  MTR: 05/15/98               03/01/98
Approval:  06/20/95                                 Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: PRC/DOCS FOR HUNAN; GUANGXI & ZHEJIANG
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Russell Cheetham
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                                Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                         Richard Scurfield
Team Leader at ICR:   Toshiro Tsutsumi                          Mohammed Rasheed
ICR Primary Author:   Toshiro Tsutsumi; Han-Kang
Yen; Teresita Ortega
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=-Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main development objectives were to: (a) improve inland waterway (IWW) management by
introducing organizational and financial reforms in line with the market economy; (b) expand IWW
capacity by widening and deepening channels to improve navigation, which required constructing dams (in
Hunan and Guangxi) to increase the water level; (c) improve connections between IWW and land transport
services by appropriately equipping IWW ports; (d) generate hydroelectric power by utilizing the
differential heads at the dams; and (e) enhance the capabilities of the IWW management entities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revised objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included work in one autonomous region (Guangxi province) and two provinces
(Hunan and Zhejiang). The project components in each province (in alphabetic order) are:
(a) in Guangxi, construction of a dam and shiplock at Guigang, upgrading of the Xijiang IWW
channel, and installation of hydropower generation facilities at the dam;
(b) in Hunan, construction of a dam and shiplock at Dayuandu, upgrading of the Xiangjiang IWW
channel, installation of hydropower generation facilities at the dam, and expansion of two river
ports (Hengyang and Zhuzhou); and
(c) in Zhejiang, improvement of four major IWW channels and construction of three river ports-at
Huzhou, Jiaxing and Hangzhou-to link IWW and land transportation modes.
The original summary costs and the final project component ratings are:
Component                         Cost         Rating
Channel/Ports/Dam/Shiplock Construction    $68,800,000.00      S
Power Generator/Cargo Equipment          $136,500,000.00       S
Technical Assistance and Training           $4,700,000.00      S
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revised components, but the scope of some components was revised during
implementation, following actual IWW development.
* In Hunan Province, the number of new berths at the two river ports (financed locally) was reduced
because of an economic slowdown and changes in traffic pattems. Three coal berths at Hengyang were
converted to two general cargo berths, and two coal and one general cargo berths at Zhuzhou were
converted to one multi-purpose terminal.
*  In Zhejiang, the channel design was modified, and the channel was upgraded from Class 5 to Class 4
(for 500-dwt vessels) to coordinate the channel class of Grand Canal with that in neighboring Jiangsu
Province.
-2 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
(None)
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  The project was implemented satisfactorily and the objectives are very likely to be met. In relation
to the original objectives (see paragraph 3.1): (a) the capacity of IWW agencies improved through
cormmercialization. Guangxi and Hunan Provinces commercialized IWW agencies by creating new
state-owned enterprises (SOE), which are financially autonomous with satisfactory operating ratios; (b)
The physical capacity of IWW expanded with the widening and deepening of navigation channels; (c)
Connections between IWW and land transport were improved by the construction of transshipment ports
and the appointment of commercial operators for the ports; (d) Hydropower stations in Guangxi and Hunan
have been operating at higher utilization rates than expected; and (e) The capacity of IWW agencies has
increased through the training of their staff.
4.1.2 Performance indicators were not mandatory when the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was prepared
in May 1995. The project was officially retrofitted and the indicators included after discussions with the
implementing agencies and the Government of China (GOC) in December 1997. Because major economic
benefits were expected from transportation cost savings that would result from the use of larger vessels,
average vessel size was selected as the rnain performance indicator. The volume of inland waterway traffic
also was selected as a performance indicator to compare inland waterways to roads and railways and
monitor IWW competitiveness as a transportation mode. For monitoring financial sustainability, the
working ratio of the IWW agencies was selected as a performance indicator.
4.1.3  During project implementation, the average vessel size increased. Vessel size in Hunan and
Zhejiang increased as estimated, but the increase in Guangxi was lower than the estimate because of slow
economic growth and the fact that, despite implementation of the project, IWW development lagged behind
railway and highway development. Although a railway from Kunming to Nanning and a highway from
Guizhou to Guigang were completed before the end of 1997, a proposed coal terminal at Nanning to
transfer coal from road or rail to IWW (a separate project financed locally) was not constructed on time.
The delay was due to the unavailability of land around Nanning. The completion of the new terminal
downstream of Nanning is scheduled for 2006. When the new terminal is completed, Inland Water
Transportation (IWT) in Guangxi is expected to be fully competitive and its average vessel size is expected
to increase quickly.
4.1.4. The increase in IWW traffic also was generally lower than was estimated because of slow
economic growth. Although economic growth is expected to be slow for some time, IWW traffic is
expected to grow steadily because the basic demand for bulk materials (coal, ore, and construction
materials) is still strong.
4.1.5 IWW agencies have been financially sustainable. Operating ratios and working ratios were very
close to the estimates and are expected to improve after hydropower generation reaches full operational
status.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  All project components have been satisfactorily completed. Guangxi and Hunan provinces finished
upgrading their IWW channels by constructing dams and shiplocks at Guigang (Guangxi) and Dayuandu
- 3 -



(Hunan). Hydropower generation at each dam has been satisfactory. The IWW agencies in the two
provinces were commercialized, and independent SOEs were formed to develop waterways and operate the
dams and shiplocks. Zhejiang Province successfully upgraded its channels by widening and deepening and
constructed the three river ports. Channel development, mainly for the Grand Canal section, was
coordinated with neighboring Jiangsu Province.
4.2.2  The capacity of IWW agencies has improved through technical assistance and training. A financial
reform plan, including development of the computerized accounting system and related training, has been
satisfactorily implemented.
4.2.3 The Environmental Action Plans and Resettlement Action Plans were substantially followed and
overall environmental management and implementation of resettlement has been satisfactory. The
Resettlement Action Plans for the Hunan and Guangxi components underwent major revisions during
implementation. Implementation in Zhejiang and Hunan was generally smooth and successful, while in
Guangxi, the implementation of the plan met with some problems. Compensation has been paid in all three
provinces, which enabled the affected populations to cany out their livelihood development activities. In
Guangxi, however, the last payment from the land compensation fund to the affected people in Hengxian
County and Guigang Municipality has not been made. The Bank strongly recommends that Guangxi
Communications Department (GCD) and local governments deliver all land compensation funds to the
affected people.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  The overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of the project at completion is estimated to
be 22.3 percent, compared to the SAR estimate of 22.1 percent, and the actual net present value (NPV) of
CNY 4,485 million is compared to the estimated CNY 4,046 million. The EIRR and NPV at completion
are similar to those estimated at appraisal, which is due mainly to the strong traffic performance of
Zhejiang's project channels, which offset the combined negative impact from the low traffic for the three
ports in Zhejiang and the shiplock in Guangxi. The breakdown of the EIRR and NPV, compared with those
in the SAR, by province, are as follows (see details in Annex 3A):
EIRR (%) and NPV (12%, CNY miltion) Summary
The SAR                                The ICR
Guangxi  Hunan   Zhejiang  Total       Guangxi   Hunan   Zhejiang    Total
EIRR     21.1    16.9       30.1     22.1       9.9       16.8      37.4      22.3
NPV    1,166.2   511.4    2,368.8   4,046.4    (228.6)    587.9    4,125.8   4,485.1
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1  The project was substantially completed and some components were put into operation in 2000.
Three provincial IVVW agencies are revenue-earning entities. The financial analyses covered each entity and
the overall project. The Financial Intemal Rate of Return (FIRR) is estimated to be 5.9 percent, and the
NPV (at a discount rate of 5.6 percent) is estimated to be CNY 181.8 million. In the SAR, there are no
FIRR or NPV calculations. The breakdown of the FIRR and NPV, by province, is as follows (see details in
Annex 3B):
FIRR (%) and NP  (5.6%, CNY million) Summary
FIRR          NPV
Guangxi              8.0          444.3
Hunan                5.0         (101.6)
Zhejiang            4.4          (159.8)
Total Project       5.9           181.8
-4-



4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  Major institutional development under included the commercialization of IWW agencies in
Guangxi and Hunan. Guangxi created the Guangxi Xijiang Waterway Construction and Development
Corporation (GXWCDC) during project irnplementation, and Hunan created the Hunan Xiangjiang
Navigation Construction and Development Corporation (HXNCDC) at the beginning of the project. Both
corporations received their initial assets from the communications departments of the provinces and now
operate with financial autonomy. Revenues are generated by selling electricity and, for GXWCDC,
collecting shiplock fees. Experienced staff were recruited, and extensive training (domestic and overseas)
was provided on shiplock and hydropower operation, IWW development, financial management, and
environmental protection. In Zhejiang, competitive bidding was carried out for leasing the three river port
facilities to private operating companies. Operation of the three river ports has been commercialized.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 Hunan and Guangxi suffered historical floods in 1996. The imnplementation of civil works was
delayed because the flooding affected the construction of dams and made the modification of dam designs
necessary. After the recovery period, additional reinforcement works (i.e., raising the level of the
cofferdams) were added, and the contract price increased. However, delays were reduced through the
capable performance of contractors and supervision consultants.
5.1.2 The economic slowdown in Asia in 1997-1998 had a negative impact on IWW traffic. Although
IWW traffic growth was lower than estimated (except in Hunan and Zhejiang, which sustained strong
demand), the EIRR of 22.3 percent for the project is still considered satisfactory. The economic slowdown
also may have affected the upgrading of IWW vessels. The expected replacement of vessels did not occur
during project implementation because of the low profit margins of the shipping companies.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 Transport development strategy by Ministry of Communications (MOC). MOC established
IWW development plans for the Yangtze River Delta (including the Hunan and Zhejiang components) and
the Pearl River Delta (including the Guangxi component). The GOC policy that allows IWW agencies to
generate and sell hydroelectric power by utilizing dams for navigation purposes encouraged the provincial
govemments to create commercialized SOEs for operating and administrating IWW. The Guangxi IWW
agency had the first experience in constructing a small damn/shiplock at Guiping, a locally financed project.
This Bank-financed IWW project provided the second and third large-scale examples of dam/shiplock
construction and operation, with better quality hydropower-generating units and operational technology
imported from developed countries.
5.2.2  The deregulation of the transport tariff was key to the success of the project. The transport tariff
was deregulated step by step-at first, the tariff was fully regulated, then it became negotiable within a
range of 20 percent of the tariff at the start of the project, and now has been fully deregulated. IWT now
offers a tariff for bulk cargo that is competitive with that of long-haul rail transportation.
5.2.3 Ministry of Finance (MOF) implemented a financial management system reform to follow
intemational standards. The financial reform component of the project was satisfactorily implemented
under the favorable environment of the IWW agencies. There were no major difficulties in implementing
the reforms.
-5 -



5.2.4  Power market reform impacted the financial sustainability of the project. The Ministry of Electric
Power was commercialized, and the power market has been further deregulated. The State Development
and Planning Commission proposed several reforms to shift the price of power to the market price. Because
the main revenues of GXWCDC and HXNCDC come from power sales, the efficient and deregulated
operation of power plants will be critical for their financial sustainability.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
5.3.1  The level of shiplock fees is set by provincial governments. Guangxi decided to collect a shiplock
fee, while Hunan decided not to. The Bank recommended that the provinces collect fees to recover costs
and to create a fee structure that favors large vessels. Hunan, however, wishes to encourage all IWW
traffic without imposing any additional user charges. The consequences of the different policies have yet to
be fully manifested, but at this point, IWW traffic and average vessel size have increased faster in Hunan
Province than in Guangxi.
5.3.2  Ownership of the project by the implementing agencies was very strong. Although there were some
delays in the initial stages due to procurement procedures and the 1996 flood, the project was completed on
time without any extension of the closing date. Early procurement delays because of the implementing
agencies' lack of familiarity with Bank procurement policy and the complexity of the procurement items
(equipment for generating hydropower) were quickly overcome. Each of the three implementing agencies
was capable and had the management ability to catch up the lost time.
5.3.3 The major institutional reform component, commercialization of the IWW agencies in Guangxi and
Hunan, has been successfully implemented.
5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1  The actual project cost was about 14 percent higher than the estimate-$592.38 million compared
to $517.5 million-in large part because of increased civil works costs and resettlement costs in the Hunan
and Zhejiang components. The increase in civil works costs was due to the damages from the unexpected
large floods and the high physical contingency in the detailed design. The increase in civil works in
Zhejiang was due to the modification of the channel section design (deepening and widening) in
coordination with Jiangsu Province to make the design compatible with the Grand Canal design. Increased
resettlement costs were due to added bank protection works to reduce the amount of inundated land in the
reservoir areas. People welcomed this modification and it should be considered as good practice.
5.4.2  Actual project costs by province are compared to the appraisal estimates in the following table.
Actual Costs vs. Appraisal Estimates by Province in US$ million
Province       Actual Cost     Appraisal Estimate    Difference
Guangxi              229.0            246.4               -7%
Hunan                237.7            211.8              +12%
Zhejiang             125.7             98.6              +27%
5.4.3  The project savings of $15 million, derived from the competitive bidding for the Guangxi power
generation units, was canceled on May 26, 2000. As of November 29, 2001, $185,919,725 was disbursed,
- 6 -



and the undisbursed balance is $9,080,275. The balance will be canceled after the special accounts are
closed. The central and provincial governments financed the rest of the project. Guangxi had to start the
major civil works for the construction of its dam/shiplock before World Bank Board approval of the project
and wished to follow local procurement procedures. Although the civil works contracts for Guangxi were
financed locally, the Bank reviewed the qualifications of contractors to ensure that overall construction
quality was satisfactory.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  While the increase in IWW traffic was smaller than the SAR estimate, it is expected to continue to
grow steadily, because vessel size is increasing, the IWT mode along the project IWW corridors is more
competitive and demand for bulk cargo is still strong. The freight tariff is following market direction, and
the previously distorted freight tariff has been corrected. China's IWT sector is becoming more competitive.
6.1.2 Maintenance of the channels will not pose a problem. During the preparation and implementation
stages, it was confirmed that the IWW channels under the project will require only minimum maintenance
dredging. It is very likely that the channels will provide better navigational conditions for LWW traffic.
6.1.3 Now that the management and operations staff has been trained and is experienced, the
sustainability of the power stations depends on the demand and price for power. Power demand in Guangxi
and Hunan is increasing sharply, and there are no altemative power sources near the project areas. The
current power price is sufficient for the sustainability of power operations and it is very likely that price
will be maintained at a sustainable level.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1   The new commercialized IWW agencies, GXWCDC in Guangxi and HXNCDC in Hunan, must
demonstrate their capability in operating power houses and shiplocks efficiently and in managing
waterways. So far, the power output at each station has been satisfactory and there is little doubt that the
stations will continue to operate at a high level of efficiency.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
7.1.1 This project was the first Bank-financed IWW project in China, and, therefore, preparation took
longer than normal (about 31 months between identification and appraisal). The Bank carefully reviewed
China's economic situation and institutional arrangements for IWW development. From identification to
Board approval, the Bank contributed 210.7 staff weeks. The Bank carefully reviewed the feasibility study
reports that were prepared by the Chinese consultants and found them to be comprehensive, complete and
reliable. Bank missions were organized to include a mix of specialized skills-a maritime specialist, a
waterway specialist, a dam engineer, an organizational and management expert, an economist and financial
analyst, an environment specialist, and a resettlement specialist.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  Supervision was straightforward and based on the carefully designed implementation of the project.
Bank supervision mission skills were appropriately mixed, with an engineer, an economist/financial analyst,
and environment and resettlement specialists.
- 7 -



7.2.2 The Bank's core supervision mission, comprising the technical task team leader (TTL) and
economist/financial analyst, visited the construction sites about twice a year, which was sufficient to
discuss major issues and implement necessary actions. Resettlement and environment supervision missions
also were conducted periodically, but separately from the core supervision missions, depending on the
urgency of issues and the availability of the Bank specialists. The Bank's response from headquarters to
supervision matters was quick and timely. The Bank kept the same core staff on the team (TTL,
economic/financial specialist, and resettlement specialist) from preparation to the completion of the project.
With this continuity, the Bank team could build and preserve the client agencies' trust and provide proper
and timely guidance to the implementing agencies. The Bank's staffing input for project supervision was
typical at 134.1 staff weeks.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1  Although preparation time was lengthy, it was necessary to ensure the satisfactory project
implementation, and overall Bank performance was satisfactory. Supervision was efficient. The continuity
of the team was key to the successful outcome of the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  Although the level of comprehensiveness of documents prepared by Borrower agencies varied
widely, the three implementing agencies cooperated well among themselves and with Bank missions.
Because this was the first IWW project in China, the central and provincial governments and implementing
agencies were unfamiliar with the Bank's requirements, but the implementing agencies hired experienced
consultants to consolidate the feasibility study reports of the three provinces to meet the Bank's appraisal
requirement.
7.4.2  The GOC has specific guidelines on preparing feasibility reports and cost estimates, and the Bank
has its own guidelines on project cost estimates, such as for price contingencies and the components to be
included in the project cost. It took some time to reconcile the differences between the GOC and Bank
guidelines because the cost estimates of the implementing agencies had already been authorized by the
GOC, and the implementing agencies had little flexibility in making changes.
7.4.3  The implementing agencies were cooperative with Bank missions. The specific performance of
each province is summarized as follows:
(a) Guangxi-Guangxi had experience with a sirnilar project for MOC, the construction of a
dam/shiplock at Guiping. This was an MOC pilot project for an IWW agency to construct and
operate a hydropower station. Guangxi, therefore, benefited from the knowledge it gained from that
project in preparing and designing the Bank IWW project, including a dam/shiplock.
(b) Hunan-Although the new company, HXNCDC, was just being established, the leadership of the
company was very strong and the company was fully supported by the Provincial Communication
Department. The feasibility study report provided was comprehensive.
(c) Zhejiang-The preparation of the Zhejiang component started a little later than the preparation of
the other two components, due to the different identification timing. However, because of
Zhejiang's experience with a chEnnel improvement project and the construction of river ports, it
was able to catch up and follow the time table. Its coordination with Jiangsu Province on the Grand
Canal development was very satisfactory.
- 8-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1  GOC selected high-priority project components and was fully comnmitted to the project. Thus, the
proposed project design and GOC's implementation support were good. MOC provided guidance and
training to the implementing agencies for preparing the Bank-financed project. MOC, as well as MOF,
joined the Bank preparation missions so as to fully understand and expedite project preparation.
7.5.2  GOC's intervention in the procurement process, for large equipment (power-generating units) in
particular, may have created procurement delays. This intervention should be eliminated as soon as
possible. It was fortunate that the procurement delay under the project was limited to a few months.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1  The overall performance of the three implementation agencies was satisfactory. Hunan and
Zhejiang had strong ownership of the project and implementation was well managed. Guangxi changed
management during implementation, and ownership subsequently weakened. A resettlement issue in the
Guangxi component is still pending (see paragraph 4.2.3).
7.6.2  Because this was the first Bank-financed project for all the implementing agencies, a lack of
familiarity with Bank procedures was a major concem in the initial stages of implementation. An extensive
project launch workshop was held to forestall potential procurement problems. However, the three
implementation agencies selected the same Chinese intemational tendering company to assist in the
Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) process, and a company representative attended pre-appraisal and
appraisal missions to understand the background of the Bank procurement policy and procurement
packaging. Some minor deviations at the initial stage of the project were promptly rectified, and no major
issues arose in procurement. MOC selected capable implementation agencies, and although they were new
to the Bank-financed project, they quickly acquired and efficiently applied knowledge of Bank procedures.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
7.7.1  Overall Borrower performance is considered satisfactory. Three implementation agencies have
complied with the conditions and requirements of the legal agreements. The Environmental Action and
Resettlement Action Plans have been substantially implemented.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.1  Overall, the first Bank-financed IWW project in China has been a success. Commercialization of
the IWW agencies based on the hydroelectric power operations will be successful if the market demand for
power is analyzed carefully and evaluated feasibly. China understands that its inland waterways are an
important part of its infrastructure and should be developed in coordination with other modes of
transportation. It is a recognized globally that inland waterways can be an efficient transport mode and
should be better utilized. Following the first IWW project, the designs of the second IWW project (Loan
4328-CHA) and the third IWW project (Loan 462 I-CHA) have been based on the same model as this
project and are now being implemented.
8.1.2  China's deregulation of freight tariffs, in particular in the 1Wf sector, has advanced more quickly
than expected. In a more competitive environment, shipping companies must modernize their fleets to
improve operational efficiency. MOC has realized this and is preparing policy guidelines to encourage and
expedite the IWT fleet modernization process.
-9-



8.1.3 In contrast to the situation of other transport modes, coordination between agencies responsible for
water resource management and waterway transport is satisfactory. There have been no specific conflicts
between these agencies during the implementation of any of China's rWW projects.
8.1.4 Given that a waterway may cross country borders, coordination between countries is gaining
importance in the environment of trade globalization. China is working on this issue with Thailand, Laos,
and Cambodia for the Mekong River, and with Vietnam for the Red River. The Bank's role in supporting
such coordination may become more important in the future.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A. Guangxi Province
1. Objective of the Project
1.1   The implementation of the project was to: (a) form the 847-km-long 1,000-dwt navigation channel
from Nanning to Guangzhou so as to increase the navigation benefits; and (b) form the water-land
integrated transportation network together with Nan-Kun railway and Pan-Bai highway to develop westem
China.
1.2   The objectives of the project were to help Guangxi province to:
(a) improve the management of inland navigation and introduce institutional and financial reform;
(b) increase the navigation ability along Xijiang river by canalizing, widening and deepening the
navigation channel;
(c) improve the connection between waterway and highway by facilitating advanced equipment in
inland port;
(d) generate power by utilization of water head; and
(e) strengthen the ability of inland waterway navigation.
1.3    Components of the project:
(a) A 14.5-m water head dam and a shiplock were constructed at Guigang to increase the water level,
and an access road bridge, office building and anti-inundation facilities also were constructed;
(b) The Guigang and Nanning navigation channels were improved;
(c) A hydropower station with an installed capacity of 120 MW (4x30 MW) and annual power output
of 600 GWh were constructed together with a 60-km-long power transmission line;
(d) turbine/generator units, flood discharge gates., shiplock gates and corresponding equipment and
telecommunications were supplied and installed; and
(e) technical assistance and training of personnel.
- 10 -



2. Implementation and Result
2.1   The main civil works (shiplock power station and dam) commenced construction on January 1,
1995. The shiplock was completed on January 1, 1998. The first hydropower generating unit was put into
operation on February 1, 1999, and all four units were put into operation by August 23, 1999. The quality
of shiplock power station and dam were evaluated as good.
2.2   The Nanning-Guigang navigation channel was improved section by section. The Xijin-Guigang
section was improved from January 20, 1997 to December 20, 1997, and the Nanning-Xijin section was
improved from September 28, 1999 to June 30, 2000. Now Nanning-Guigang navigation channel reaches
Class 3 standard, which allows 1,000 dwt vessel to navigate all year. The quality was evaluated as good.
2.3    The procurement for civil works and equipment not only conformed with the State regulations but
also met the requirements of the World Bank. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) followed the Model
Bidding Documents prepared by the MOF and agreed by the World Bank. For the Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) contract, China Tendering Company was entrusted to be the procurement
agency, and the bidding documents and tendering followed the World Bank procurement guidelines. The
bidding and tendering works were performed well.
2.4   The implementation of the project was supervised by both the society and the government. The
engineering supervision was performed by Guangxi Bagui Engineering Supervising & Consulting
Company, and the engineering quality was supervised by Guangxi Communications Engineering Quality
Supervision Station.
2.5   The project also involved 1,227.75 person-months of training, consisting of policy support,
implementation support and institutional strengthening, of which 506 person-months were for domestic
training and 721.75 person-month for overseas training. The training was originally planned for 413
person-months (256 person-months for domestic training and 157 person-month for overseas training).
After the training, the implementation and operation staff improved their ideas, technical knowledge, and
management experience, and played an important role in implementation and operation of the project.
2.6   The following studies were performed:
(a) Planning and Development of Information & Network Management System of the Project;
(b) Technical Study of Overflow Cofferdam with Earth Core for the Project;
(c) Analysis of Speeding up the Construction Period of the Project;
(d) Study of the Optimal Water Level under the Integrated Operation of Guiping and Guigang
Hydropower Stations;
(e) Reform and Development of Guangxi Iland Waterway Transportation; and
(f) Maximization of Power Generating Benefit under the Premise of Assuring Navigation Water Level
during Flood Season for the Project.
- 11 -



2.7    The purpose of developing an information and network management system was to reduce the
effort required to carry out management and promote working efficiency. The system was designed and
developed since the first half of 1994, and was improved during application. Now the system can be used
for searching, analysis, statistics and disbursement, and can be applied to construction and management in
medium and large projects.
2.8    The technical study of the overflow cofferdam with earth core aimed to utilize the existing earth
cofferdam for this project by widening and increasing the dam height to save construction cost. This
purpose had been achieved.
2.9    The analysis of speeding up the construction period of the project was aimed to reduce the
construction period for the second phase dam from 2 years to 1 year. By doing this, water could be stored
to the designed water level ahead of schedule and more power could be generated. The result of the study
were fully applied.
2.10   The purpose of the study of optinal water level for Guiping and Guigang hydropower stations was
to achieve maximum power generation under the premnise of assuring the navigation water level.
2.11   According to the requirements of State institutional reforms and the World Bank, the construction
and operation of the project should be commercialized. On January 23, 1999, Guangxi Xijiang Waterway
Construction and Development Corporation (GXWCDC) was approved to be established by Guangxi
Provincial Government to be in charge of the management of Guiping and Guigang navigation junctions,
and to set up a modernized enterprise system.
2.12   After the establishment of GXWCDC, the financial system was set up to (a) standardize the
financial income and disbursement for the whole company (including three subsidiary companies), (b) help
control and reduce the costs, and (c) help to collect funds for repayment, project maintenance and
constructing new projects.
2.13   The computer accounting system of Guangxi Xijiang Project Headquarters was accepted by GCD
at the end of 1996. Since January 1, 1997, computers have been used to handle financial affairs. Since its
establishment in January 1999, GXWCDC also has implemented the computerized financial system and
has gained efficiency in the accounting process and great improvement in accounting quality.
2.14   GXWCDC currently focuses its business on power generating by Guigang and Guiping
hydropower stations. The selling of electric power of GXWCDC was 578 million kWh in 1999 and 750
million kWh in 2000. The company also collected tolls from ships passing through Guiping and Guigang
shiplocks, which was CNY 2.3 million in 1999 and CNY 2.4 million in 2000. The selling of electric power
from January to July in 2000 was 294 rnillion kWh, and the cargo through the shiplocks reached 4.8602
million tons. The financial status of the company remains good.
2.15   The actual total investment is expected to be within the budgetary estimate. The preliminary design
of the project was started in 1989 and was approved in 1995. Because the preparatory work started many
years ago, the construction period was very long, and the project was also affected by such factors as: the
adjustment of state policy, the change in foreign exchange rate and the important design modification, so
the original budgetary estimate was obviously different from actual expenditures. Thus, the general
budgetary estimate of the project had to be modified. According to the actual situation, the project
investment rate between domestic and foreign capital should be adjusted after considering the change in
foreign exchange rate, the savings from bidding and optimized design and the use of reserve. The foreign
- 12 -



capital is estimated to be decreased by US$18,000,000 and the domestic capital to be increased by CNY
167,596,500. The total investment was estimated to be CNY 1,994,576.500. The following components
were involved in the budgetary modification: Guigang navigation junction works, access road, Yujiang
River bridge, telecommunication works and Nanning-Xijin navigation channel improvement works.
3. Main Factors Affecting the Project
3.1    Advantageous factors:
(a) Most staff of the Client and the supervision company have construction and management
experience on similar projects. Most of them took part in the construction of Guiping Navigation
Junction Project;
(b) As the Client, GCD has the ability to coordinate the relationship and conflict between the project
implementation agency and related govemment departments, local enterprises and farmers to
ensure the smooth implementation of the project;
(c) The two main design institutes of the project were rich in design experience. The design was
concise and feasible;
(d) Contractors with abundant experience in similar projects were selected to implement the main
works; and
(e) The reliable fund resources assured the continuous construction of the project.
3.2    Disadvantageous factors:
(a) The domestic subcontractors of the foreign equipment suppliers did not pay much attention to this
project, which resulted in the delay of delivery of the equipment and thus, the operation date of
Unit I was postponed by 7 months; and
(b) The compensation fee for reservoir inundation was much more than the original budgetary
estimate. The main reasons were: the compensation rate increased greatly, the preliminary design
was not precise enough, and the budget for this part was reduced during the budgetary estimate
review period.
4. Sustainability of the Project
4.1    As a communications infrastructure construction project, the benefit of this project was mainly
focused on social aspects. The construction of the project will increase the navigation class from Nanning
to Guigang, improve the local communications facilities, increase local government income tax and local
people's employment, and establish a good basis for development in this area.
4.2    The benefit of the project mainly comes from the income from power generating. With the reform
of the electric power system, the price and the selling volume of electricity will face severe market
competition. But at present, the agreed price can ensure the loan repayment ability and further
development.
- 13-



5. World Bank's Action
5.1    The work efficiency of the World Bank for this project was very high. The appraisal mission of the
Bank visited Guangxi and started to prepare the appraisal report in December 1994, and the project
agreement was signed on August 31, 1995. It is a very high working efficiency that took only 9 months to
complete a series of review, evaluation and signing of the agreement.
5.2    During the construction period, the supervision efficiency of the Bank was also very high. In
average, it took no more than 10 week-person to visit the site.
5.3    During the period of preparing the bidding documents and procurement, the World Bank provided
many important comments and instructions.
6. Borrower's Action
6.1    The preparation and implementation works of the Borrower was satisfactory. Except for the
7-month delay for Unit 1, other main working processes were completed according to the plan. Up to now,
except for the two bridges of the access road component to be inspected and analyzed, all the other works
have been completed and approved for final acceptance. All the signed contracts were performed quite well.
7. Evaluation of Works
7.1    The project consisted of five components: Guigang Navigation Junction (shiplock power station
and dam), power output works, Nanning to Guigang navigation channel improvement, telecommunications
works of navigation channel and access road. Except for the access road, all the other works have passed
the final acceptance by GCD and quality was evaluated as good.
8. Future Operation
8.1    A modem enterprise system has been set up in GXWCDC and it is improving.
8.2    Because of the different power-generating volumes, the electric price and loan repaying ability
between Guigang and Guiping navigation junction, GXWCDC will make the integrated dispatching
between the two junctions to get the best benefit for the whole company.
8.3    GXWCDC is building a local area network (LAN) to connect the headquarters with three
subcompanies, to realize network management and improve management level and efficiency.
8.4    GXWCDC plans to reform the Mechanical & Electric Equipment Installation Sub-company to a
company that has a Class 3 construction qualification and legal entity and can independently obtain
construction and erection contracts. By doing so, GXWCDC will expand its business scope and increase
income.
8.5    GXWCDC will implement the Naji navigation junction project to improve navigability between
Baise and Nanning. It is said that the pre-feasibility appraisal report evaluated by China Intemational
Engineering Consulting Company has been sent to State Development and Planning Commission. Once the
report is approved, Naji project will become the new development resource for GXWCDC.
- 14 -



9. Important Experience
9.1    The steady and experienced construction, management and operation teams are the basis for a
successful project.
9.2    The information management system will greatly improve the management efficiency.
9.3    Because the communications infrastructure construction projects usually have a broad
involvement, especially in land acquisition and resettlement, the coordination between govermment
departments is very irnportant.
9.4    During the preparation period of the project, the quick development of highway transportation was
not given enough attention. So, during the implementation of the project, the counterpart projects (mainly
construction of a coal terminal at Nanning) were not implemented with the same speed, thus there was not a
good connection between railway and waterway transportation, which resulted in the decrease of freight
volume along the upstream waterway.
9.5    The legal entity system should be strictly followed. The enterprise and govenmuent functions
should be separated from each other so as to fully ensure the deciding rights of the enterprise. Only by
doing so, the project can be implemented with good quality and quick speed, and the investment can be
controlled.
B. Hunan Province
1. The project objective, design, implementation and operation experience
1.1    Objective
Xiangjiang is the largest river in Hunan Province; the river area is the most developed area in Hunan
Province. The objective of this project was to develop Xiangjiang waterway by using the potential
waterway resource of Xiangjiang. By building a navigation and hydropower junction at Dayuandu, 62 km
downstream of Hengyang and widening the channel from 40 m to 90 m, Xiangjiang waterway will be a
1,000 dwt Class, I push 4 fleet, high-class waterway. Xiangjiang waterway connects with the main channel
of the Yangtze River and provides service for the development of the export-oriented economy of Hunan
through upgrading the transportation capability of Xiangjiang.
1.2    Design
The objective of the project design is to build a navigation and hydropower junction at Dayuandu (which is
composed of a dam, a ship lock, a powerhouse and a dam crest highway bridge, with the main purpose of
navigation and generating electricity). There are 23 sluice gates in the dam with a width of 20 m for each
gate. The total length of sluice gates is 531 m. The size of the ship lock is 180 m x 23 m, with the threshold
depth of 3 m for the 1,000 dwt class. A fleet with I push tow plus 4 barges can pass at one time. The
designed annual pass-through capability is 12 million tons. The powerhouse is river-bed style and four
through-flow bulb turbine generator units, each with a capacity of 30 MW/unit were erected. With the total
capacity of 120 MW, the average annual output is 585 million kWh. A dam crest highway bridge (for
20-ton trucks) with a total length of 678 m and a width of 9.75 m crosses on top of 23 sluice gates and the
powerhouse.
- 15-



It is a junction with the comprehensive function of navigation, generating, upgrading irrigation condition
and developing tourism, which was found to be according to the principals of comprehensive utilization of
water resources and sustainable development strategy. The design of the junction was found to be very
successful because of its reasonable plan layout, safety building, succinct and effective structure, and
convenient operation management.
1.3   Implementation and operating experience
The project was commenced in December 1995, and the ship lock was officially operated and the first unit
started to generate electricity three years later in December 1998. In October 1999, all four power
generating units started operation. On May 1, 2000, the reservoir was operating at the normal water level.
The whole project was completed half a year ahead of the original schedule. The main experiences are as
follows:
(a) It adopts the system of legal person responsibility. The owner of the project was responsible for the
planning, fund raising, organizing design and project procurement, the operation management after
its completion, and the repayment of World Bank's loan and interest. This gives the Owner a
leading position throughout the implementation process. It is good for speeding up the
implementation progress and to transform the project from construction period to the operation
period. The project was implemented with quick progress, good quality and high benefit.
(b) The Owner paid much more attention to the employment and training of staff, human resource is
the key to operation management. Powerhouse management is a completely new subject in the
Communication Department and they do not have these kinds of professionals. Through
consultation with specialists and intensive domestic and overseas training for university graduates,
sufficient knowledge was obtained. The transition from construction to operation periods was
smooth.
(c) During the construction process, HXNCDC invited experienced specialists as technical advisors to
the project. They resolved many important construction safety problems such as geology and
foundation treatment, building design safety, construction safety, flood safety and operation safety.
The activity of the Dam Safety Panel was effective; it ensured the safety and stability of the dam
and other buildings.
2. Evaluation of Project Implementation
2.1    The borrower cooperated with the World Bank officers very actively, friendly and effectively. The
borrower always looked to the World Bank officers as good partners; everything the officers did was to
help the borrower's better implementation of the project; every time before the World Bank's supervision
missions, the task manager provided a tentative work schedule for the borrower's preparation. This made
the borrower understand the purpose and the contents of the supervision better and do their best to meet the
requirement of the supervision.
2.2    During the implementation of the project, reallocation of the loan proceeds was necessary to meet
the actual increased cost in civil works and decreased cost in equipment. Many unexpected change orders
were necessary for civil works contracts because of the complex subsoil condition of the project site.
Equipment cost was lower than estimates due to competitive bidding.
- 16-



3. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank and other main partners
3.1    This project is the first World Bank-financed Inland Waterway Project in China and HXNCDC
was not familiar with the project procurement and other guidelines of World Bank financed project. There
was no similar project to be used for reference. The borrower had a lot of difficulties in making
implementation progress at the beginning of the project. Even the local specialists did not know how to
meet the requirements of the Bank. In the aspect of project procurement, in particular, the preparation of
the bidding documents and evaluation report, the borrower took some roundabout course and wasted lots of
time. Active communication between the Bank and the borrower changed this situation. The task team
leader, financial analyst, resettlement specialist and many other experts from the Bank have given the
borrower lots of comments and suggestions in details. With the help of this, the borrower became familiar
with the requirements very soon.
3.2    The officers responsible for the World Bank-financed project management in MOC and MOF
provided great support and guidance during preparation and implementation of the project. They
recommended this project very actively and played a very important role in the approval process by the
Bank. During the identification, pre-appraisal and appraisal of the project, MOC and MOF organized local
specialists and held the training program for the borrowers. Project Officers, Mr. Cao Zhengtian, Mr. Mo
Xiaolong and others provided free consultant services and guidance in project preparation, and invited
project consultants for technical assistance.
3.3    During implementation period, in accordance with its commitment, MOC provided CNY 500
million, appropriate funds for the project, which is more than the promised amount. This made a great
contribution to the project.
3.4    Hunan provincial government paid much more attention and gave great support to the project. In
accordance with its commitment in the project agreement, Hunan Provincial Government gave its overall
support in raising project funds, making favorable policies and decisions of power price. In order to resolve
the actual problems of construction, leaders of Hunan Provincial Government usually visited the site for
supervision and guidance. Target Assess Management Method was adopted to strictly control the progress
and quality. At the same time, the Government made great contribution to the resettlement of the reservoir
area by organizing and coordinating with municipal governments and providing guidelines.
3.5    The project officers of the World Bank Office in Beijing provided good service for NCB
procurement, and actively and warmly guided and helped in the preparation of bidding documents, financial
management, disbursements and so on.
3.6    Hunan Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) is the direct supervisor and leader of this
project. HPCD also made great contribution in ensuring the counterpart funds were appropriately managed.
During implementation of the project, HPCD not only effectively monitored the progress, quality and cost
of the project, but also coordinated HXNCDC's relationship well between different partners of the project.
HPCD also provided strong guarantee for HXNCDC's organization, personnel training and employment.
3.7   Project officers from Hunan Provincial Financial Department provided good guidance in helping
HXNCDC use the Special Account of the Bank's loan. Every disbursement was checked very carefully, on
time disbursement was ensured, and counterpart funds were guaranteed. The Special Account was safely
managed. In addition, introduction and dissemination of the project to the public were made.
- 17-



3.8    Hunan Provincial Auditing Department audited the financial statements and the certificates of the
expenditures very independently, carefully, in details and fairly, and submitted the Auditor's Report to the
Bank in accordance with the agreed schedule. They built a bridge of trust between the Bank and HXNCDC
through reflecting the real financial performance and payments of HXNCDC.
4. Proposed arrangements for future operation
4.1    HXNCDC will organize future activities of the Dam Safety Panel, which completed an overall
assessment of the dam and operation safety, for dam safety during operation period.
4.2    HXNCDC will assist the World Bank in post-appraisal of the project. HXNCDC will also prepare
the agreed perfornance indicators to the Bank after the completion of the project.
C. Zhejiang Province
1. Introduction
1.1   The World Bank completed the pre-appraisal for Zhejiang Province's part of China Inland
Waterway Project in May 1994 and the appraisal in November 1994. hn May 1995, the negotiation of the
project loan took place and the Loan and Project Agreement was signed. On August 31 1995, the loan was
declared effective. The project account was closed on June 30, 2001. All tasks stated in the SAR, Loan and
Project Agreements have been completed. This report is a formal evaluation of the execution of these tasks.
2. Project Description
2.1   Project Objective
(a) to improve the transportation capacity of inland waterways in Zhejiang Province;
(b) to improve linkage of inland waterway transportation and other transportation modes;
(c) to introduce financial and technical innovation suitable for a market economic system and make
operation and technology modernization of inland waterway transportation; and
(d) to provide training for improvement of administration capacity of inland waterway transportation.
2.2   The Project includes:
(a) reconstruction of Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal, Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel,
Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel and Zhapu-Jiaxing-Suzhou Channel;
(b) construction of Hangzhou inland port, Jiaxing inland Port and Huzhou inland Port, and providing
advanced handling equipment; and
(c) execution of each implementation plan.
3. Achievement of the Project Objective
3.1    All the project objectives mentioned are achieved:
(a) 190.3 km composed of Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal, Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel,
- 18 -



Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel and Zhapu-Jiaxing-Suzhou Channel is reconstructed, in which 140
km is Class 4 channel and 50.3 km is Class 5 channel, and 49 bridges are constructed;
(b) Hangzhou Inland River Bulk Cargo Operation Port District, Jiaxing Waterway-Railway Transfer
Port District and Huzhou Waterway-Railway Transfer Port District are constructed, including 6
berths of 500 ton, 31 berths of 300 ton, an increased annual throughput of 6.03 million tons, and
corresponding handling equipment, warehouses, storage yards, administration houses and
environmental protection facilities; and
(c) the training plan and financial reform are completed.
4. Forming and Preparation of the Project
4.1   In November 1992, the World Bank assigned a mission to Zhejiang Province to visit the project
site. The mission identified the project and propose working requirements for Shanghai-Hangzhou
multi-purpose transportation project, including Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway and Inland Waterways.
Zhejiang Province provided "Inland Waterway Works Project Book." Thereafter, The China State Planning
Commission combined the inland waterway component with Hunan Inland Waterway Transportation
Project and Guangxi Inland Waterway transportation Project into the China Inland Waterways Project.
4.2   In April 1993, a mission assigned by the World Bank visited Zhejiang Province for the appraisal
preparation work of the proposed project and completely discussed the feasibility study report, environment
impact evaluation, economic and financial problems and other matters. The mission requested additional
information and invited experts to help project preparation. During the mission, Zhejiang Province provided
the Feasibility Study Report and Environment Impact Evaluation Report and other relative information.
4.3   In November 1993, Zhejiang Provincial Planning Committee approved the Feasibility Study
Reports of four channels and three port districts of the project. At the same time the State Environment
Protection Bureau and Zhejiang Province Environment Protection Bureau respectively approved the
Environment Impact Evaluation Reports of these seven components. In March and April 1994 Zhejiang
Provincial Planning Committee approved the preliminary designs of these seven components.
4.4    Agreed with the World Bank, the MOC organized and invited seven domestic experts to
consolidate the Feasibility Study Report of China Inland Waterways Project. In April 1994, a detailed and
complete report, including project components for Zhejiang, Hunan and Guangxi, was submitted to the
World Bank.
4.5   In May 1994, the World Bank made the pre-appraisal for the project, discussed and reached
agreement on project design, cost estimate, procurement method, administration and organization reform,
personnel training, environmental protection, land acquisition and resettlement and economic and financial
aspects. At that time Zhejiang Province provided the preliminary design, implementation plan for
environmental protection, land acquisition and resettlement and the procurement list.
4.6   In November 1994, the World Bank formally appraised the project, discussed and reached
agreement on the project cost estimate and financing plan, procurement method and loan amount,
implementation plan for environmental protection, land acquisition and resettlement, economy and finance,
organization, supervision and training.
- 19-



4.7   The project loan negotiation took place and the Project Loan Agreement was signed in May 1995
in Washington D.C. and it was declared effective August 31, 1995. The loan amount allocated to Zhejiang
Province is US$40 million.
5. Objectives of the Project
5.1    The objectives of the project in the SAR were:
(a) To improve the administration of inland waterway and introduce reforms in organization and
finance, according to market economic principles;
(b) To widen and deepen channels to improve navigational capacity;
(c) To improve the linkage of waterway transportation and land transportation by equipping inland
river ports with modem equipment; and
(d) To provide training and strengthen the administration ability of inland waterway transportation.
5.2   In order to achieve these objectives, the scope of the project includes:
(a) Reconstruction of Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal, Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel,
Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel and Zhapu-Jiaxing-Suzhou Channel, including widening and
deepening channels, and construction of bridges spanning the channels;
(b) Construction of Hangzhou Inland Port, Jiaxing Inland Port and Huzhou Inland Port, providing
advanced handling equipment and improving linkage of waterway and land transportation to
enhance production capacity and effectiveness; and
(c) Execution of each implementation plan, including personnel training plan.
6. Project Implementation
6.1    Channels. 190.3 km of Beijing-Hangzhou Canal, Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel,
Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel and Zhapu-Jiaxing-Suzhou Channel, in which Beijing-Hangzhou Canal,
Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel and the downstream section of Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel are
reconstructed according to the Class 4 standard (for 500 ton ship navigation). Zhapu-Jiaxing-Suzhou
Channel and the upstream section of Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel are reconstructed in tenns of
the Class 5 standard (for 300-ton ship navigation). The excavated earthwork on land is 6.27 million m,
dredged earthwork in water is 6.05 million mi, paved revetment is 123.6 km, and 49 new bridges are
constructed. According to the agreement with the World Bank, the civil works for channels were divided
into 15 contracts and NCB was adopted according to the World Bank Procurement Guidelines and the
Bidding Docurnents approved by the World Bank.
6.2   The summary of each contract is as follows:
(a) Contract No.1 (Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal) is 15.93 kmn, conmmenced in September 1996 and
completed in September 1999.
(b) Contract No.2 (Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal) is 17.83 km, commenced in January 1996 and
completed in December 1998.
(c) Contract No.3 (Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal) is 20.08 kin, commenced in December 1995 and
completed in September 1997.
- 20 -



(d) Contract No.4 (Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel) is 8.24 kIn, commenced in April 1996 and
completed in September 1998.
(e) Contract No.5 (Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel) is 4.3 kmn, commenced in January 1996 and
completed in June 1997.
(f) Contract No.6 (Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel) is 13.55 km, commenced in December 1995 and
completed in December 1998.
(g) Contract No.7 (Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel) is 7.9 km, commenced in September 1996 and
completed in December 1997.
(h) Contract No.8 (Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel) is 17.15 kIn, commenced in March 1996 and
completed in June 2000.
(i) Contract No.9 (Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel) is 16.84 km, commenced in April 1996 and
completed in December 1998.
(j) Contract No.10 (Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel) is 15.07 km, commenced in April 1996 and
completed in December 1998.
(k) Contract No. 1 I (Zhapu-Jiaxing-Suzhou Channel) is 8.52 km, commenced in May 1996 and
completed in December 1999.
(I) Contract No.12 (Zhapu-Jiaxing-Suzhou Channel) is 22.79 km, commenced in May 1996 and
completed in December 1999.
(m) Contract No.13 (Zhapu-Jiaxing-Suzhou Channel) is 10.76 km, commenced in April 1996 and
completed in December 1996.
(n) Contract No.17 (Beijing-Hangzhou Canal) is 3.64 km, commenced in June 1998 and completed in
December 1999.
(o) Contract No.18 (Hangzhou-Shanghai channel) is 7.70 km, commenced in November 1997 and
completed in June 2000.
6.3    Channel promotion from Class 5 to Class 4. According to the original plan, Beijing-Hangzhou
Canal, Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel and Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel were reconstructed in
terms of the Class 5 standard. According to the State Master Trunk Waterway Plan and the development
plan in the Ninth Five-Year Plan period, Zhejiang Province determiined and the World Bank agreed in 1997
that the above channels were to be reconstructed based on Class 4 standard. Contracts No. 1 through No.4
and Contracts No.6 through No.10 were implemented by modifying contracts. New Contract No.17 and
Contract No.18 were implemented through NCB.
6.4   Ports. According to the achieved agreements with the World Bank, the civil works of ports were
divided into three contracts, which were completed by NCB based on the World Bank Procurement
Guidelines and the Bidding Documents approved by the World Bank. Contract No.14, Jiaxing
Railway-Waterway Transfer Port District, composed of 2 berths of 500 ton and nine berths of 300 ton, was
commenced in May 1995 and completed in September 1998. Contract No.15, Huzhou Railway-Waterway
Transfer Port District, composed of I berth of 500 ton and nine berths of 300 ton, was commenced in April
1995 and completed in June 1997. Contract No.16, Hangzhou Port Inland River Bulk Cargo Operation
District, composed of three berths of 500 ton and 13 berths of 300 ton, was commenced in November 1996
and completed in December 2000.
6.5    Equipment Procurement. According to the agreement achieved with the World Bank, the handling
equipment procurement for Hangzhou, Jiaxing and Huzhou Ports was divided into three contracts. The
Contract No. 1 was for handling equipment for Jiaxing and Huzhou Ports totaling 6 items composed of 18
sets. Contract No.2 was for handling equipment for Hangzhou Port totaling five items composed of 43 sets.
The both contracts were completed through NCB based on the World Bank Procurement Guidelines and
the Bidding Documents reviewed by the World Bank, and the equipment have been installed completely and
- 21 -



put into operation. Contract No.3 was for smaller equipment for Hangzhou, Jiaxing and Huzhou Ports and
procured by shopping method agreed by the World Bank, this contract is completed.
6.6    Construction Supervision. As agreed with the World Bank, Zhejiang Provincial Communications
Department (ZPCD) set up a separate supervision organization in 1995 for the project. The supervision
organization is composed of 1 Engineer Office and 12 resident supervision groups (in 1997 supervision
group for Contract No. 18 was added and set up) with setting up supervision specifications, organizing
supervision training and signing supervision agreement with the Employer.
6.7    Staff Training. The program of overseas study tour and training was for 11 subjects, 106
persons/months with 103 persons participating. In fact, the completed overseas study tour and training
included 121.5 persons/months with 141 persons participating.
7. Operation Condition
7.1    The operation condition of four channels and three ports are good.
7.2    By the end of 2000, the four channels including the parts constructed with domestic funds were
completed, and the channels were promoted from Class 6 to Class 4 and Class 5. Their navigational
capacity is increased, and the transportation cost for ships is reduced. The improvement of navigation
condition promotes the development of fleet structure: bigger ships, standardized and in series. This will
.save transportation time, speed up ship turnover, reduce marine accidents and increase anti-disaster ability.
Therefore the social and economic benefits are obvious.
7.3    After the three ports were put into operation, there is difference between the actual throughput and
the estimated one. The reason is that production structure and energy structure are being adjusted in China,
and the throughput of coal is much reduced. But in Huzhou and Jiaxing port districts, large-scaled state
cereal reservoir warehouses are constructed, the throughputs of cereal, timber, fertilizers and chemical
materials are increasing. In Hangzhou City, the port districts and ship handling points are dismantled along
both banks of Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal for the city plan and environmental protection, and
consequently the throughput in Hangzhou Inland River Bulk Cargo Operation District is increasing. Thus
the economic benefits of the three ports will turn to be good.
8. Contractor and Consultant Work
8.1    The project includes 18 civil works contracts and the contractors were selected through NCB. Each
contractor strictly executed and completed the contract with excellent construction quality. The main works
quantities are: the excavated earthwork on land 6.27 million m; the dredged earthwork in water 6.05
mnillion m'; the paved revetment 123.6 km and 49 new-constructed bridges; six berths of 500 ton, 31 berths
of 300 ton, increased annual throughput 6.03 million tons, and corresponding handling equipment,
warehouses, storage yards, administration houses and environmental protection facilities.
8.2    Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal passed the as-built acceptance examnination organized by MOC
and Zhejiang Provincial Government in November 2000, and was appraised to be an excellent project.
Huzhou Port passed the as-built acceptance examination organized by Zhejiang Provincial Planning
Committee and was appraised to be an excellent project. Jiaxing Port passed the as-built acceptance
examination organized by Zhejiang Provincial Planning Committee and was appraised to be a qualified
project. Zhejiang Provincial Planning C'ommittee will examine the other three channels and Hangzhou Port
by the end of 2001.
- 22 -



8.3    Consultant Work. Experts consulted the Feasibility Study Report of the project. After confirmation
by the World Bank, the MOC invited seven experts to consult on the Feasibility Study Report of China
Inland Waterways Project. In April 1994 a detailed and complete report on the projects in three provinces
was submitted to the World Bank and satisfied the World Bank.
8.4    Supervision Engineer Work. As agreed with the World Bank, the project was supervised by the
separate supervision organization set up by ZPCD. In 1995 the supervision organization is set up. The
supervision organization adopted two-level supervision system, namely composed of the Engineer Office
and 12 resident supervision groups (in 1997 the resident supervision group for Contract No.18 was added).
The Engineer controlled the works quality, timing and payment according to the Federation Internationale
d 'Ingenieurs-Conseils (FIDIC) conditions, on the base of construction contract and supervision procedures
and methods. In order to guarantee construction quality, the Engineer was in charge of all management
issues concerning quality. For example, the raw materials were not allowed to be used before tests were
past. During construction, the Engineer tested and checked the works in construction, and if the quality was
not qualified, the unqualified works were rejected and not paid; thus the works quality and investment were
all under control.
8.5    Experience. Many experiences have been obtained after implementing the project:
(a) It is an effective method by setting up strict supervision procedure to strengthen construction
supervision and guarantee construction quality, progress, investment and satisfactory construction
management;
(b) It is important to help the contractor, according to contract conditions and technical specifications
before each item of work is started, improve his working ability and efficiency and so that contract
can be completed on time with satisfactory quality standards,;
(c) Strengthening site administration and inspection, namely the Engineer being on site and supervising
each stage of construction, is the guarantee for works quality to achieve the required quality
standard;
(d) Inspection before each new item is to be started is an effective method to meet the quality
requirement;
(e) The Employer is the implementation and organization center to coordinate the relative parties to
control quality, progress and investment; and
(f) Earnestly accepting the World Bank's instruction and providing active cooperation is the guarantee
to complete the project.
9. Work of Implementation Department
9.1    Project Preparation. ZPCD made full preparations. In November 1993, Zhejiang Provincial
Planning Committee approved the Feasibility Study Reports of the seven components composed of the four
channels and the three ports. At the same time the State Environment Protection Bureau and Zhejiang
Provincial Envirownent Protection Bureau respectively approved the Environmental Impact Evaluation
Reports of these seven components. In March and April 1994, Zhejiang Province Planning Committee
approved the Preliminary design of the seven components. This project is the first inland waterway
transportation project financed by a World Bank loan in Zhejiang Province and China. From November
1992, the project identification, pre-appraisal, appraisal and negotiation were completed, in May 1995 the
loan agreement was signed with the World Bank.
- 23 -



9.2    Hangzhou Port Inland Water Bulk Cargo District was designed by Hangzhou Design Institute of
Communications. The other six components were designed by Zhejiang Provincial Planning, Designing and
Research Institute of Communications.
9.3    The environmental impact evaluation of the project was undertaken by Zhejiang Provincial
Scientific Design and Research Institute of Environment Protection. The Environmental Impact Evaluation
Reports of 7 components were completed during the period from February 1991 to March 1994. From
April 1991 to October 1994, the State Environmental Protection Bureau and Zhejiang Provincial
Environment Protection respectively approved these reports. In January 1995 the Environment Protection
Action Plan was completed and approved by the World Bank. In the same year, periodical monitoring
started. For the channel projects, the periodical monitoring was executed by the city and county
environment monitoring stations where the project is located; for the port projects, periodical monitoring
was executed by the environment monitoring stations in the port districts. The monitoring reports were
submitted to the World Bank. Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal, Jiaxing Port and Hangzhou Port have
passed the environment protection as-built acceptance examination organized by the environment protection
bureau. The environmnent protection as-built acceptance examination for the other components will be
executed during the as-built acceptance examination.
9.4   Project Implementation. Zhejiang Province Government paid much attention to the project. In
October 1993 Zhejiang Province Government set up the Leadership Group of Hangzhou-Jiaxing-Huzhou
Inland Waterway Network Reconstruction Project. Leaders of the relative departments and leaders from
Hangzhou City, Huzhou City and Jiaxing City to be responsible for the coordination of important things
are presented in the Group, including a Vice Govemor of Zhejiang Province. The Project Administration
Office was organized under the Group.The office is responsible for the organization, coordination, bidding,
plan and financial administration of the project construction.
9.5    Experiences. During "the Ninth Five-Year Plan" period, Zhejiang Province constructed five main
channels like Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal, totaling 410 km and Hangzhou port, Jiaxing port and
Huzhou port, in which four channels totaling 190.3 km and three ports were invested by the World Bank,
thus the inland waterway construction is promoted strongly. The construction enterprise was selected
through NCB, the total quality control was executed by a supervision Engineer, the supervision teams,
construction teams, administration teams and design teams have gained rich experience through the project.
They were trained and strengthened by construction of projects. All these are valuable exercises and
successful implementation for big development projects of Zhejiang Province. The success of the project
promoted the administration and construction of Zhejiang Inland Waterways to a new level.
10. Factors Affecting the Project
10.1  The project is the first inland waterway project invested by the World Bank in Zhejiang Province.
There was no previous experience to refer to during the preparation of the project. Under the instruction of
MOC and the World Bank, the preparation of the project was completed successfully. The project includes
four channels and three ports, including 18 civil works contracts, which are scattered widely. Although it
was difficult to implement, the project was completed satisfactorily through the hard work of all
participants.
- 24 -



11. Bank Performance
11.1  Preparation of the Project. The project identification mission of the World Bank visited Zhejiang
Province in November 1992. In three years from then, the missions from the World Bank cooperated with
the State Development and Planning Commission, MOC and ZPCD and determiined the scope of the
project. The World Bank assigned many missions to investigate technology, organization and economy and
completed the appraisal of the project. The World Bank Staff Appraisal Report described the
implementation scope, economic benefit and organization arrangement of the project.
11.2  Project Implementation. The World Bank assigned many missions to inspect the project and
provided numerous feasible recommendations and suggestions regarding quality, progress and financial
administration, and promoting the implementation of the project.
11.3   Cooperation of executive organization and the World Bank. The cooperation between the executive
organization and the World Bank is satisfactory. The officers from the World Bank fully understood the
desire of Zhejiang Province to develop its inland waterway transportation infrastructure and provided
support. On the condition that the amount was not changed, the World Bank agreed to increase civil works
quantities. Zhejiang Province and ZPCD felt satisfied and thankful for the World Bank's cooperation and
support.
11.4  Experiences. The main achievements were: (a) through the construction of the project invested by
the World Bank, the competitive bidding, FIDIC conditions and supervision system have been widely used
in waterway construction in Zhejiang Province; and (b) through staff training, part of the technical staff has
been trained in planning and designing, construction administration, project supervision, financial
administration, maintenance and operation administration. The good training broadened their knowledge
and the knowledge was used in the implementation of the project and will play an important role in future
projects.
12. Work Plan for Future
12.1   With the improved condition by the project invested by the World Bank, Zhejiang Province
completed the upgrading of the five main channels in the north of Zhejiang Province and the three ports
during the Ninth Five-Year Plan period, changed the navigational condition in this area completely, and
planted trees and flowers along the banks of Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal. It is so beautiful that it has
become the State-level model channel. During the Tenth Five-Year Plan period, Zhejiang Province has
decided to plant trees and flowers along the banks of this five channels continuously, and at the same time
Hangzhou-Ningbo Canal will be constructed to connect the waterways systems in the north and the east of
Zhejiang Province. Thus the waterways network in Hangzhou-Jiaxing-Huzhou area will link to Ningbo
Port. Another two main channels in Hangzhou-Jiaxing-Huzhou area will be constructed.
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofmanciers for the project.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.
10. Additional Information
There are no specific additional informnation.
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcomelimpact Indicators:
1998          1999          2000          2001           2002
Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual
1. Traffic ('000):
Guangxi: Xijiang/Guigang Shiplock (cargo tons)    2,500  1,707  3,130  1,556  4,190  1,360  5,610           7,500
Hunan: Dayuandu Shiplock (cargo tons)             3,600  3,450  3,870  3,620  4,150  3,700  4,330           4,500
Zhejiang:
Hangzhou Port (throughput tons)                    --      -     --      --     500  -- (a)  1,500          3,000
Huzhou Port (throughput tons)                       500    460    700    430    900    300  1,100           1,150
Jiaxing Port (throughput tons)                     --    --       400    -    1,000    180  1,400           1,500
2. Average Barge Size (dwt):
Guangxi Xijiang/Guigang shiplock                    120    132    150    131    200    135    250            300
Hunan Dayuandu shiplock site                        120    110    150    175    200    180    250            300
Zhejiang:
a. Beijing- Hangzhou Grand Canal                     85     88    100     96    120    110    150             180
b. Changxing- Huzhou- Shanghai                       80     80     90     85    110    100    140             170
c. Zhapu- Jiaxiang- Suzhou Channel                   60     55     80     61    100      75    120            150
d. Hangzhou- Shanghai Channel                        80     75     90     83    110      95    140            170
3. Financial Performance - Operating Ratio (%):
Guangxi                                              32     35     31     49     27      50     27            27
Hunan                                               110   N.A.   106    10       103     77    100            97
Zhejiang                                             73     72     73     73      72     53     71            70
(a): The port was still under construction.
Outcome Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
Guangxi: Construction of a dam/shiplock complex                   one complex                     one complex
Hunan: Construction of a dam/shiplock complex                     one complex                     one complex
Zhejiang: Improved length of the four channels                      190.3 km                        190.3 km
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Pereentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Guangxi: Construction of Dam/shiplock and channel   73.80         116.53          157.9
improvement
Guangxi: Supply of equipment for power generation and  76.70       61.83           80.6
shiplock
Guangxi: Technical assistance and training          10.40          28.64          275.4
Guangxi: Land acquisition and resettlement           6.40          22.00          343.8
Hunan: Construction of Dam/shiplock and tenninals at the  70.10   130.86          186.7
two ports, and channel improvement
Hunan: Supply of equipment for power generation and  68.90         80.80          117.3
shiplock
Hunan: Technical assistance and training             9.60           9.60            100
Hunan: Land acquisition and resettlement             9.20          16.41          178.4
Zhejiang: Channel improvement and construction of the  64.30       83.00          129.1
three ports
Zhejiang: Supply of equipment for port operation     3.90           3.39           86.9
Zhejiang: Technical assistance and training          2.40           2.39           99.6
Zhejiang: Land acquisition and resettlement          9.80          36.93          376.8
Total Baseline Cost                                405.50         592.38
Physical Contingencies                             25.80
Price Contingencies                                86.20
Total Project Costs           517.50          592.38
Total Financing Required            517.50         592.38
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICe           NCB                      1N4B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    66.60         94.50         0.00        101.60       262.70
(28.20)      (40.60)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (68.80)
2. Goods                    158.20         3.40         2.00         45.90       209.50
(131.20)      (3.30)       (2.00)        (0.00)      (136.50)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         4.70         23.20        27.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.70)        (0.00)       (4.70)
4. Land Acquisition and      0.00          0.00         0.00         25.40        25.40
Reseftlement
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    224.80         97.90        6.70         196.10       525.50
(159.40)     (43.90)        (6.70)       (0.00)      (210.00)
- 27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category          CB         PNcurement B  M ethod           N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                        60.35          137.99                        132.05        330.39
(28.44)        (61.46)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (89.90)
2. Goods                         87.34          3.69           0.46           54.53        146.02
(87.34)        (3.69)         (0.46)         (0.00)        (91.49)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           4.53           36.10         40.63
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.53)         (0.00)        (4.53)
4. Land Acquisition and          0.00           0.00           0.00           75.34         75.34
Resettlement
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        147.69         141.68          4.99          298.02        592.38
(115.78)       (65.15)         (4.99)         (0.00)       (185.92)
Miscellaneous includes land acquisition, resettlement, and design costs.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
:;  :   0    :   07-00  Q tli-X-          V             Perce~~~~~~~ntage of Appraisal
Cornponent             Appraisal Estimate            ActuallLatest Estimate    P         opi
_______ Bank    Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Guangxi Component        80.00     166.40               56.39      172.61              70.5   103.7
Hunan Component          90.00     121.80               89.95      147.72              99.9   121.3
Zhejiang Component       40.00      58.60               39.58      86.13               99.0   147.0
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 3A: Cost/Benefit Analysis Summary
Preface
1.     The economic evaluation of the project covers the constructions of five river ports, four channels
and two dams (including shiplock and power facilities) in Guangxi, Hunan and Zhejiang provinces:
(a) In Guangxi, construction of a dam and shiplock, upgrading of the main IWW channel, and
construction of a hydropower generation facilities at dam; and
(b) In Hunan, construction of a dam and shiplock, upgrading of the main IWW channel, construction
of a hydropower generation facilities at dai, and expansion of two river ports; and
(c) In Zhejiang, improvement of four major IWW channels and construction of IWW/ land transport
links at three river ports.
The detailed project components are tabulated as follows:
Dams            Channel    Ports
Guangxi  Guigang dam
Hunan    Dayuandu dam        --      2 (Hengyang port and Zhuzhou port)
Zhejiang                  4 Channels  3 (Hangzhou port, Huzhou port and Jiaxing port)
Total   2 Dams /_I      4 Channels  5 Ports
/_1: Including constiuction of shiplock and power station
2.     The analysis is based on the actual and forecasted operating data on traffic, unit transport cost,
power generation, economic project cost and transport user benefits. The methodology used was similar to
that employed by the SAR and is summarized as follows
(a) capital investment and maintenance costs, revised to reflect December 2001 prices;
(b) the benefit stream, also reflecting December 2001 prices, comprises: (i) savings in transport cost
for the channels, (ii) economic benefits from power generation, (iii) reduced congestion on the
existing ports and channel;
(c) the project life for the benefit estimation is assumed to be 20 years; and
(d) full benefits started to accrue on the dams and channels in 2000, and for the five ports between
2000 and 2001 (depending on the completion timing of the terminals).
3.     During project implementation, some project components were slightly modified. The economic
evaluations for the project cover these new changes within the ICR.
4.     This annex is comprised of three parts. Part I is the method used for the cost and benefits
analysis; Part II is the economic evaluation for each provincial component; and Part III is the overall
economic evaluation of the project, including probabilistic risk analysis.
- 29 -



PART I: METHOD
Economic Cost
5.     Financial costs were converted to economic costs by shadow pricing for each of the input items and
domestic/foreign price escalations. The actual total economic cost of the project at completion is 8.7
percent higher than the SAR estimate, at constant December 2001 prices. The differences in actual versus
estimated economic costs in Guangxi, Hunan and Zhejiang are 10.9 percent, 21.2 percent and 40.1 percent,
respectively.
Economic Cost Comparison (CNY million)
The SAR              The ICR       ICR/ SAR
(Dec. 1994) (Dec. 2001) (A)   (Dec. 2001) (B)    (B/A in %)
Guangxi        1,962.30    2,151.88        1,917.45        -10.9
Hunan         1,375.08     1,514.15        1,834.58        21.2
Zhejiang        664.80      741.16         1,038.67        40.1
Total      4.002.18    4.407.19        4.70.0 l
Sources: GCD, HPCD, ZPCD and the Bank staff.
Economic Benefits
6.     As in the SAR, three different analyses were used, depending on the nature of the components, to
quantify the economic benefits, i.e., the inland waterways for shiplocks and channels, the power stations,
and the inland waterway ports.
7.     Shiplocks and Channels. The economic benefits of building the two shiplocks and improving the
four channels are to provide low-cost transport for dry bulk cargo through the use of larger ships. Without
the project, traffic congestion on those transport corridors would have worsened over the years and the
traffic would have transferred to more expensive modes.
8.     Simple queuing modeling was employed to quantify the benefits. The benefits of the project
consist of:
(a) unit transport cost savings by using larger shipments;
(b) reduced travel distances for waterbome traffic;
(c) elimination of the need to transport via the higher cost mode (highway); and
(d) total operating costs savings due to reduced congestion and faster transport.
9.     The economic unit waterway transport costs for various sizes of shipment and vehicle operating
costs (VOC) used in the economic evaluation to estimate the benefits of the shiplocks and channels are
summarized in the tables below:
Economic Barge Operating Cost (Yuan/1,000 tkm)
60 ton    120 ton   300 ton  600 ton    1,000 ton
Variable cost    277       105       43         15         10
Fixed costs       97        44       36        34          31
Total        374       149       79        49         41
Sources: GCD, HPCD and the Bank staff.
- 30 -



VOC For Medium Truck (Yuan/1,000 vehicle-km) /1
Fuel                                                  800
Tires                                                  65
Maintenance                                           752
Crew                                                   41
Depreciation                                          111
Total                                              1,769
/_1: Paved flat roll for 3.5-ton loading capacity, I 10 hp, average speed 50 km per hour and
purchase price of 150,000 Yuan withl0-year life time
Sources: ZPCD and the Bank staff.
10.    Power Stations. The project areas in Guangxi and Hunan are short of electricity. Even with the
completion of the project, in 2000, the local power companies, on average, have been forced to shut off
power supply 5.2 times every day for Guangxi and 9.7 times every day for Hunan. This shortage occurs
on a year-round basis. The economic value of electricity is dependent on the seasons (normal, wet and
dry). For the normal season, it is estimated at 0.40Y/kWh based on the sectoral average. This value
would be reduced to zero during the wet season and raised three times as high during the dry season. The
seasons in the project areas, by month, are listed as follows:
Dry season              Normal season              Wet season
Guangxi  January - March    April - May, November - December    June October
Hunan    October - January  February - March, August - September  April - July
Sources: GCD and HPCD.
11.    Ports. The economic analysis primarily focuses on the benefits derived from relieving congestion
in the port. The new project berths will yield quantifiable benefits in the form of savings in cargo handling
costs, shipping time (both waiting time and operating time), and cargo time.
12.    Savings in Cargo Handling Costs. Cost savings are expected in the direct handling of cargo in the
new facilities when compared with the former facilities at the port. Without the project, the only way to
handle traffic in excess of available berth capacity would have been through more costly lightering, which
is estimated to cost three to four times more than nonnal handling. Lightering has been assumed for cargo
tonnage in excess of berth capacity at 95 percent occupancy, at a cost three times that of normal handling.
Substantial savings in handling costs are expected after the renovation of existing berths and at the new
berths. Savings in handling costs have been converted to economic benefits by shadow-pricing the main
cost components of normal handling and of lightering. Conversion factors of 1.05 for berth handling and
1.1 for lightering are used; these factors were estimated in a previous Bank study.
13.    Savings in Ship Time. Savings in ship time include both the reduction in ship time spent waiting
for berths and working at berths due to improved cargo handling. Ship costs used for the economic
evaluation are at the low end of the ship-cost model developed by the Bank. The annualized ship resale
value, plus operating costs, has been used to calculate project benefits. The annual resale value of ships
has been assumed to reflect the current condition of the shipping industry, and gives a slightly lower return
than the annualized replacement value of the ships.
- 31 -



14.       Savings in Cargo Time. Savings in ship cargo time also apply to the interest saved on the value of
the cargo. All cargo is domestic, and the marginal source of working capital would be loans from  the local
bank at 8.0 percent interest. It is assumed that China's marginal cost of capital would be approximately 12
percent. Interest savings have been calculated assuming an average rate of interest of 10.0 percent per
annum.
15.       The major operational parameters assumed for econormic evaluations are listed as follows:
Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluations
Hunan Province                                        Zhuzhou port
General Cargo             Hengyang port
The old berths               General Cargo, container
Before   After  The new     The old    The new
1994    1994   berth        berths    betths
Berths (number)                                    15      14       1 (3)         2        2 (3)
Cranes per berth (number)                            1      2       2             1        2
Average crane productivity per hour (tons)          8       8      75            38       100
Average working hours per day (hours)              12       12     12            12        12
Throughput capacity per berth (tonsiday)           96     192   1,800           456    2,400
Berth operating days peryear (days)               312     312    209           312       200
Ship arrivals (scheduled/unscheduled)                Unscheduled              Unscheduled
Average ship size (DWT)                           300    400    500             300      300
Average shipment size (ton)                       300    400    500             300      300
Cargo value (Yuan /ton)                          2,000   2,000   2,800        2,000    2,000
Average daily ship cost in port (Yuan/day)       3,486   4,648   4,233        3,486     3,486
Unloading/loading cost (Yuan/ton)                 11.0    11.0   10.0          11.0      12.0
Zhejiang Province                     Hangzhou Port        Huzhou Port           Jiaxing Port
The old The new    The old  The new      The old   The New
berths  berths    Berths   Berths        Berths    Berths
Berths (number)                            15      16         10        10             8    11
Cranes per berth (number)                   I       I          I         I             I    I
Average crane productivity per hour (tons)  12     70         10        12            12    60
Average working hours per day (hours)      12      12         12        21            12    21
Throughput capacity per berth (tons/day)  144     840        120       176           144   882
Berth operating days per year (days)     300      250        300       300          300   300
Maximum berth utilization (%)              95      95         95        95            95    95
Ship arrivals (scheduled/unscheduled)   Unscheduled        Unscheduled            Unscheduled
Average ship size (DWT)                   60      150         60       200           60   200
Average shipment size (ton)              600    1,200        600     1,600          600   1,600
Cargo value (Yuan /ton)                   110      25        120     3,000          720  2,000
Average daily ship cost in port (Yuan/day)    388  593       388       593          388   593
Unloading/loading cost (Yuan/ton)        5.04    6.00       4.77      3.90          5.47   4.00
( ) Represents the original plan
Sources: HPCD, ZPCD and the Bank staff.
- 32 -



PART II: THE ECONOMIC EVALUATION
16.    The project is executed by a different agency in each province. The economic analysis evaluates
each subcomponent as well as the total project for the province as the whole.
GUANGXI
17.    The project scope. The Guigang dam (shiplock and power station) was completed as planned.
As requested by the borrower, part of the project cost savings were canceled.
18.    Traffic and Power Generation. The dam consists of power generation and shiplock facilities.
The power generation has already reached its design capacity. However, the shiplock traffic is much less
than expected. In 2000, for example, the traffic was about 1.4 million tons-only 20 percent of the SAR
estimates. The main reason for the lower traffic is the lack of adequate unloading facilities at the upstream
port, Nanning, which was supposed to receive 11.0 million tons of freight traffic from the railway (most of
this low-value dry bulk cargo is the ideal traffic for inland waterways). The railway (the
Kunming-Nanning -(KN) line) was newly built in 1998. The current capacity of Nanning port (about 1 .1
million ton per year) cannot handle this cargo with its present equipment. Most of the KN line traffic
(about 9.8 million tons), therefore, was redirected to the downstream port at Guiping.
19.    Without the proper unloading facilities upstream, the shiplock traffic is not expected to increase,
and the consignee may have to pay higher transport costs. The new terminal at Nanning was planned but
has not materialized because of constraints on the land available . The plan was postponed, and GCD is
planning to build rail-to-water freight transshipment facilities at Lengshuizhou, 24 km downstream from
Nanning. The new facilities will have an annual throughput capacity of 4.5 million tons of dry bulk cargo
and are expected to be put into operation by 2006.
20.    Even with the construction of the Lengshuizhou transshipment facilities, the traffic in Guigang
shiplock is still constrained by an upstream shiplock, the Xijing dam/shiplock. The dam/shiplock is located
between Nanning and Guigang with a maximum capacity of 7.0 million tons. Xijing shiplock is owned and
managed by the Department of Water and Electricity. Xijing shiplock was to be expanded in accordance
with the implementation of the project, but was postponed because of the slow increase in traffic. The
construction timing for the expansion of the Xijing shiplock will be decided in accordance with the Xijiang
IWW traffic growth.
21.   The long-term traffic forecast for the Guigang shiplock, taking into consideration the economic
slowdown, indicates very slow growth (1 percent per year). By 2006, after the Lengshuizhou
transshipment facilities are completed the demand would increase by 2.5 million tons. Summary of the
traffic growth forecast and power generation is shown below:
- 33 -



Guangxi: Traffic and Power Generation
1998   1999   2000      2005   2010   2015   2020
The shiplock traffic (million ton):
The SAR                           4.19    5.61    7.50     10.93   15.36   20.14   24.68
The ICR                            1.71    1.55    1.36     1.41    5.94    6.24    6.54
The SAR/the ICR                 -59.3%  -72.3%  -81.9%    -87.1%  -61.3%  -69.0%  -73.5%
Power generation (GWh):
The SAR                          213.4  533.4  556.6    556.6  556.6  556.6  556.6
The ICR                            0.0  388.8  559.8    560.0  560.0  560.0  560.0
The SAR/the ICR                      -- -27.1%  100.6%    100.6%  100.6%  100.6%  100.6%
Sources GCD and the Bank staff.
22.     Economic Costs. Comparing the economic costs in the ICR with those in the SAR, the total
project cost in the ICR, at constant December 2001 prices, is about 10.9 percent lower than the SAR's
estimates. The economic cost for power is 32.9 percent lower and the shiplock is 45.3 percent higher than
estimated as shown in the following table:
Guangxi: Economic Cost (CNY million)
The SAR            The ICR      The ICR/
(Dec. 1994) (Dec. 2001) (Dec. 2001)  The SAR (%)
Shiplock              500.36      605.44      879.84      45.3%
Power               1,461.94    1,546.44    1,037.61     -32.9%
Total          1.962.30     .151.88    1.917.4S     -10.9%
Sources: GCD and the Bank staffs.
23.      Benefits. The main benefits of the project come from: (a) savings in transportation costs from
using larger ships (from 120-dwt-class ship to 1,000-dwt-class ship); and (b) power generation. In 2000,
more than half of the power was generated during the wet season, 30 percent in the normal season and 15
percent in the dry season, as follows:
2000 Guigang Power Generation (MWh)
Normal season    Wet season      Dry season      Total
Powergeneration        172.59         305.11           82.09        559.79
% of the total          30.8           54.5            14.7          100.0
Source: GCD.
24.      Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for the dam/shiplock is estimated to be 9.9 percent,
which is lower than the 21.2 percent estimated in the SAR, mainly due to the low shiplock traffic and low
power generation in the dry season. The EIRR for the shiplock is estimated to be 7.4 percent, which is
lower than the 22.8 percent estimated in the SAR. The EIRR for the power is estimnated to be 12.9 percent,
lower than the SAR's 19.6 percent. The surnmary of the EIRR and NPV in comparison with the SAR is as
follows.
- 34 -



Guangxi: EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, CNY million) Summary
Shiplock         Power          Total
The ICR          EIRR             7.4             12.9            9.9
NPV            (272.7)          44.0          (228.6)
The SAR:         EIRR            22.8             19.6           21.2
NPV /_1         717.2           449.0         1,166.2
/-1: NPV has been updated to December 2001 prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.2275.
HUNAN
25.     The project scope. The Dayuandu dam (shiplock and power station) was completed as planned.
The scope of construction of the Hengyang port and Zhuzhou port, which were locally financed, was
reduced. The original plan was to build six berths, of which three were to be general cargo berths at
Hengyang port, two coal berths and one general cargo berth at Zhuzhou port. Because of changes in the
traffic pattern, in particular lower demand for coal, only three berths have been built-two general cargo
berths at Hengyang port and one multi-purposes berth (for general cargo and container cargo) at Zhuzhou
port.
26.    Traffic and Power Generation. The traffic for the shiplock and the two ports is lighter than
expected. In 2000, the traffic of Hengyang port was 22.3 percent lower than the SAR's forecast, while the
shiplock traffic was about 10.8 percent lower than expected. For the long-term forecast (2000-2020), the
traffic at both ports is expected have a lower growth rate (1.5 percent per year) than the SAR's forecast
(4-6 percent). The power generation capacity is as planned.
Hunan: Traffic and Power Generation
1998   1999   2000    2005   2010   2015   2020
The shiplock traffic (million ton):
The SAR                       3.61   3.87   4.15     5.14   6.12   7.10   8.06
The ICR                       3.08   3.38   3.70     4.50   5.47   6.33   7.34
The SAR/the ICR              -14.7%  -12.7% -10.8%   -12.5% -10.6% -10.8%  -8.9%
Power generation (GWh):
The SAR                      269.00 400.00 538.00   560.00 560.00 560.00  560.0
The ICR                        -   193.00 413.07   560.00 560.00 560.00  560.0
The SAR/the ICR                --  -51.8% -23.2%    100%   100%   100%   100%
1999   2000    2005   2010   2015   2020
The traffic on the project berths (million ton):
Hengyang Port: TheSAR                0.77   0.91     1.41   2.112   .67   3.24
The ICR                  -    0.71      0.78   0.860   .91   0.95
The SAR/the ICR              -22.3%   -44.6%  -59.2% -66.1%  -70.6%
Zhuzhou Port: The SAR                0.36   0.48     0.56   0.670   .80   0.96
The ICR                  -    0.48      0.53   0.590   .61   0.65
The SAR/the ICR                 --    -5.4%  -12.7% -23.1%  -32.7%
Sources HPCD and the Bank staff.
27.     Economic Costs. The total project cost at completion, in constant December 2001 prices, is
about 21.2 percent higher than the SAR's estimates. The Dayuandu dam/shiplock cost is 28.3 percent
higher, and the cost of the two ports that constitute only 2.8 percent of the total project cost is 58.9 percent
lower (because of the reduction in the scope).
- 35 -



Hunan: Economic Cost (CNY million)
The SAR             The ICR      The ICR /
(Dec. 1994) (Dec. 2001) (Dec. 2001)  The SAR (%)
The Dam/shiplock:
Shiplock                 478.38      546.78        659.64      20.6
Power                    796.21      844.01      1,124.18      33.2
Total Damlshiplock      1,274.59    1.390.79     1.783.82      28.3
The Ports :
Hengyang Port             54.22       66.56         33.18      -50.2
Zhuzhou Port              46.27        56.80        17.58      -69.0
Total Port           100.49      123.36         50.76      -58.9
Total Hunan          13i75.08    1,514.15 5    .L<834.58     21.2
Sources: HPCD and the Bank staffs.
28.     Benefits: The main benefits of the project come from: (a) savings in transportation cost from the
use of larger ships (from 120-dwt-class ships to 1,000-dwt-class ships); (b) power generation; and (c) the
traffic on the project berths. The power generation of Dayuandu in 2000, by seasons, is listed as follows:
2000 Dayuandu Power Generation (MWh)
Normal season    Wet season       Dry season         Total
Power generation      134.98           151.83           126.24         413.07
% of the total         32.7            26.8             30.6            100.0
Source: HPCD.
29.     Regarding the ports' benefits, the ship day savings are the major benefits (53 percent), followed by
port loading/unloading savings (32 percent) and cargo day savings (15 percent).
Hunan: The Ports Economic Benefits Summary (CNY million)
2001   2005   2010   2015   2020
Zhuzhou port:
Ports: Loading/unloading savings      2.47   3.47   4.84   5.58   6.36
Ships port days savings               0.44   0.47   0.73   0.87   2.58
Cargo port days savings               0.14   0.15   0.19   0.22   0.43
Total                            3.05   4.09   5.76   6.67   9.37
Hen2vany port:
Ports: Loading/unloading savings      2.09   2.01   1.90   1.84   1.78
Ships port days savings               7.26   7.47   7.71   7.81   7.88
Cargo port days savings               2.05   2.12   2.20   2.23   2.26
Total                           11.40  11.60  11.81  11.88  11.92
Total
Ports: Loading/unloading savings      4.56   5.48   6.74   7.42   8.14
Ships port days savings               7.70   7.94   8.44   8.68  10.46
Cargo port days savings               2.19   2.27   2.39   2.45   2.69
Grand Total                     14.45  15.69  17.57  18.55  21.29
Source: HPCD and The Bank staff
30.    EIRR for the Dayuandu dam/shiplock at completion is estimated to be 16.7 percent, which is
slightly higher than the 15.1 percent in the SAR. The EIRR for the two ports is estimated to be 18.0
percent, which is lower then the 26.2 percent in the SAR. The overall EIRR of the Hunan component is
estimated to be 16.8 percent, which is very close to the 16.9 percent in the SAR. A summary of EIRR and
NPV is shown below:
- 36 -



Hunan: EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, CNY million) Summary
Dayuando Dam                      The 2 Ports                Total
Shiplock  Power  Total      Zhuzhou Port  Hengyang Port  Total    Hunan
The ICR:
EIRR       14.2    18.8   16.7           16.3          19.2       18.0       16.8
NPV        130.2   441.1  639.9           5.0          11.6       16.6       587.9
The SAR:
EIRR       13.2    16.9   15.1           21.1          30.6       26.2       16.9
NPV / 1    61.0    300.6  361.6          16.4          103.4      149.8      511.4
/_2: NPV has been updated to December 2001 prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.2275.
ZHEJIANG
31.     The project scope. The scope of construction on the four major channels in northern Zhejiang
was modified. The original plan was to upgrade the four existing channels from Class 6/7 (50-100 dwt) to
Class 5/6 (100-300 dwt). During project implementation, the four channels were further upgraded to
Class 4/5 channels (300-500 dwt). These Class 5 channels can be upgraded further to Class 4 (1,000 dwt)
by dredging in the future. The three inland waterway ports (at Jiaxing, Huzhou and Hangzhou) were
constructed according to the original plan, but the utilization of berths was modified because of the increase
in ship size, so the nominal number of berths was reduced.
32.    Traffic: In 2000, except for traffic on one of the smallest channels, the traffic on the other three
main channels is higher or very close to SAR estimates. The traffic at the three ports, however, is much
lower than the SAR's forecast, particularly at Jiaxing and Huzhou ports. For the long-term forecast
(2000-2020), given the busy channel traffic, the traffic at these ports may reach the SAR's estimates but it
is not expected to exceed them. For the four channels, the traffic may maintain the same growth rate as
the SAR's forecast (1.5 percent per year). A summary of the traffic forecast for each project channel and
port is as follows:
- 37 -



Zhejiang Channel and Port Traffic (million ton)
1998   1999    2000      2005  2010   2015   2020
The channel traffic:
Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal
The SAR           24.32  25.15   26.00    27.93  29.85  32.43  35.00
The ICR           22.10  27.96   28.00    30.31  32.82  35.19  37.72
The SAR/the ICR   -9.1%   11.2%    7.7%    8.5%  9.9%   8.5%   7.8%
Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel
The SAR           63.04  65.32   67.67    72.10 76.50  80.40  84.30
The ICR           53.86  65.92   66.00    71.46 77.36  82.92  88.89
The SAR/the ICR  -14.6%   0.9%   -2.5%    -0.9%   1.1%   3.1%   5.4%
Zhapu - Jiaxing- Suzhou Channel
The SAR           16.91   18.39   20.00    22.50 25.00  27.50  30.00
TheICR            11.20  12.35   13.50    14.62  15.83  16.96  18.18
The SAR/the ICR  -33.8%  -32.8%  -32.5%   -35.0% -36.7%  -38.3%  -39.4%
Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel
The SAR           22.41  23.49   24.00    26.25 28.50  31.75  35.00
The ICR           20.30  24.52   25.00    27.07 29.30  31.41   33.67
The SAR/the ICR   -9.4%   4.4%    4.2%     3.1%  2.8%   -1.1%  -3.8%
The traffic on the proiect berths:
Jiaxing port    The SAR           0.861   .12    1.46      1.72  2.05   2.43   2.89
The ICR            -      -        0.18     0.29   0.47   0.75   1.21
The SAR/the ICR    -      -     -87.7%   -83.1%-77.2%  -69.1%  -58.1%
Huzhou port    The SAR            0.780   .93    1.10      1.31   1.56   1.86   2.21
The ICR            0.460   .43    0.30      0.48   0.78    1.25   2.02
The SAR/the ICR  -41.0%  -53.8%  -72.7%   -63.1% -50.1%  -32.6%  -8.7%
Hangzhou port  The SAR            2.292   .78    3.27      3.62   3.97   4.18   4.38
The ICR            -      -       -         3.26  3.58   3.76   3.94
The SAR/the ICR                           -10.0%  -9.9%  -10.1%  -10.0%
Sources: ZPCD and the Bank staffs.
33.     Economic Costs: The project cost at completion, in constant December 2001 prices, is about 40.1
percent higher then the SAR's estimates. The total economic costs of the four channels is 48.2 percent
higher due to the upgrading, and the economic costs of the three ports is 20.0 percent higher due to the
unexpectedly soft soil conditions.
- 38 -



Zhejiang: Economnic Cost (CNY million)
The SAR           The ICR    The ICRI
The SAR
(Dec. 1994)  (Dec. 2001) (Dec. 2001)    (%)
The 4 Channels:
Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal            85.41       95.03     173.21      82.3
Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel       54.75       61.64      58.79      -4.6
Zhapu - Jiaxing- Suzhou Channel        125.08      141.58      93.77     -33.8
Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel              203.98      231.55      459.36     98.4
Total- the 4 channel           469.22       529.80     785.13     48.2
The 3 Ports:
Jiaxing port                            66.27       71.36       60.85     -14.7
Huzhou port                             58.05       63.13       71.37     13.1
Hangzhouport                            71.26       76.87      121.32     57.8
Total- the3 ports             195.58      211.36      253.54     20.0
Total Zhejiang               664.80       741.16    1038.67     40.1
Sources: ZPCD and the Bank staffs.
34.     Benefits: The main benefits of the project are from: (a) transportation cost savings from using
larger ships size on the four project channels (50/100-300/500 dwt), and (b) the traffic on the project
berths.
35.     For the distribution of the ports' benefits, savings in port loading/ unloading costs are highest
(about 65 percent). The second largest benefits are savings in ship-days (about 32 percent), and the third
benefit is cargo-day savings (3 percent).
Zhejiang: The Ports Economic Benefits Summary (CNY milion)
1998  2000   2001   2005   2010  2015   2020
1. Hangzhou Port:
Port :Loading/unloading savings   N.a.  n. a.  27.81  27.74  31.14 33.08  33.39
Ships port days savings        n. a.  n. a.  13.27  13.21  14.28 14.21  14.57
Cargo port days savings        n. a.  n. a.   1.31   1.31   1.41  1.38   1.40
Total               n. a.  n. a.  42.39  42.26  46.83 48.67  49.36
2. Huzhou Port:
Port: Loading/unloading savings    1.59  0.20   0.31   1.85   5.21  6.78   8.38
Ships port days savings        1.69  0.20   0.31   1.76   2.23   1.15   1.03
Cargo port days savings        0.18  0.01   0.10   0.19   0.27  0.12   0.05
Total               3.46  3.46   0.72   3.80   7.71  8.05   9.46
3. Jiaxina Port:
Port: Loading/unloading savings    n.a.  0.21   0.23   0.35   2.27  6.12  12.33
Ships port days savings         n.a.  0.32   0.38   0.77   2.55  3.77   5.74
Cargo port days savings         n.a.  0.01   0.01   0.05   0.22  0.35   0.55
Total               n.a.  0.00   0.63   1.17   5.04 10.24  18.62
Sources: ZPCD and the Bank staff.
36.    The EIRR for the four channels is estimated to be 43.3 percent, which is higher than the 32.1
percent estimated in the SAR and is due to the upgrading of the four channels to Class 4/5. The EIRR for
the three ports is estimated to be 10.3 percent against 23.7 percent in the SAR, resulting from lower traffic
in two ports (at Huzhou and Jiaxing). Since the majority of the benefits are generated from the channels,
the higher EIRR of the four channels totally offsets the negative impacts of lower traffic in the ports. The
EIRR for the Zhejiang component is estimated to be 37.4 percent, higher than the SAR estimate of 30.1
percent. The summary of the EIRR and NPV in comparison with the SAR estimates are as follows.
- 39 -



Zhejiang: EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, CNY million) Summary
The SAR              The ICR
EIRR   NPV I/_       EIRR    NPV
The 4 Channels:
Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal        33.1     461.9       46.5   1,079.4
Changxing-Huzhou-Shanghai Channel    66.2    1,353.0     93.5   2,485.5
Zhapu-Jiaxing- Suzhou Channel       20.0     172.5       21.2      73.5
Hangzhou-Shanghai Channel           16.2     132.7       22.2    517.8
Total- the 4 channels        32.1    2,120.1      43.3   4.156.3
The 3 Ports:
Jiaxing port                        19.3      47.6        2.3   (42.2)
Huzhou port                         14.6      14.0        -1.3   (54.9)
Hangzhou port                       35.5      187.0       19.3    66.6
Total- the 3 ports         23.7%     248.6       10.3   (30.5)
Total Zhejiang                      30.1%    2             37.4   jj.8
/_I NPV has been updated to December 2001 prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.2275.
PART III: The OveraU Economic Evaluation
The Overall EIRR
37.    The overall EIRR of the project at the completion is estimated to be 22.3 percent, which is very
close to the SAR estimates of 22.1 percent. The NPV would be CNY 4.49 billion against CNY 4.05
billion estimated in the SAR. EIRR for Hunan at the completion is very close to the SAR (16.8 percent
against 16.9 percent). For Zhejiang, the higher EIRR for the 4 channels not only offset the low EIRR of
the ports component, but also offset the low EIRR of Guangxi. Summary of EIRR and NPV in
comparison with the SAR are as follows.
EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, CNY million) Summary
The SAR                                    The ICR
Guangxi  Hunan   Zhejiang   Total          Guangxi  Hunan   Zhejiang    Total
EIRR         21.1     16.9       30.1       22.1        9.9      16.8       37.4       22.3
NPV/_I   1,166.2    511.4    2,368.8   4,046.4       (228.6)    587.9    4,125.8   4,485.1
/_1: NPV in the SAR has been updated to December 2001 prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.2275.
The Probabilistic Risk Analysis
38.     To evaluate the project risks, some sensitive factors have been identified and tested. Since the
project is completed, the project costs would remains unchanged. The project benefits, however, may be
affected by the following factors i.e. traffic growth rate, transport cost estimates, future power generation
and price of the electricity. Any changes in these factors may affect the results of the EIRR calculation.
To measure the degree of uncertainty on these factors, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte Carlo
techniques was carried out.
39.     In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor is allowed to vary at random between set limits
and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change simultaneously. Monte Carlo simulation provides
probability distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these distributions, the risk
associated with making various decisions (or probabilistic risk analysis) can be assessed. The product of
the analysis is a judgment on the possible range of the decision variable, and on the likelihood of each value
within this range.
- 40 -



40.     The results of probabilistic risk analysis shows that EIRR under the mostly likely scenario is 19.6
percent. The low scenario is 18.4 percent and the high scenario is 20.4 percent. The standard error of the
mean is 0.1 percent. The detailed results of Monte Carlo test and probabilistic risk analyses are shown in
Appendix A and summarized as follows:
Risk Analysis Summary
Range of EIRR    Most likely EIRR   Standard Error of the Mean
Guangxi          4.6%- 5.7%            5.2%                 0.0%
Hunan            15.3%- 16.4%         15.8%                 0.0%
Zhejiang        30.4% - 34.9%         33.0%                  0.1%
Total       18.4% - 20.4%         19.6%                 0.1%
- 41 -



APPENDIX A
EIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC ANALYSIS
Summary:
Display Range is from 13.0% to 25.0% (in %)
Entire Range is from 10.7% to 25.0% (in %)
After 1,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.1%
Statistics:                       Value          Percentiles:
Trials                       1000
Mean                        19.4%                              Percentile       (in %)
Median                      19.6%                                    0%         10.7%
Mode                            --                                  10%         16.6%
Standard Deviation           2.10%6        Low Scenario             20%         17.7%
Variance                     0.0%             _                     30%         18.4%
Skewness                     -0.44         Most Likely              40%         19.0%
Kurtosis                      3.59                                  50%         19.6%
Coeff. of Variability        0.11          High Scenario            60%         20.0%
Range Minimum               10.7%                                   70%         20.4%
Range Maximum               25.0%                                   80%         21.0%
Range Width                 14.2%                                   90%         21.8%
Mean Std. Error             0.07%                                  100%         25.0%
Forecast: Total Proled  RR                                1
1,000 Trials                       Frequerey Chart                          6 i
.033                                     .                           33
.025                                                                 24.TS5
*~.017                                                                  65?
8.25
13.0%         16.0%          190.%         22.0%          25.0%
(h %)
Assumptions
Inland Waterway (traffic, transport cost)        Ports (traffic, ship cost)
Normal distribution with parameters:             Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                              80.0%          Mean                                 70.0%
Standard Dev.                     20.0%          Standard Dev.                        25.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity    Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 79.3%               Mean value in simulation was 68.7%
Power Stations (generation and price)
Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                              90.0%
Standard Dcv.                     10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 89.2%
-42-



Annex 3B: Financial Summary
Preface
1.    The financial cost of the project is calculated on the basis of the weighted average cost of the
various sources of funds for each project entity. The sources of funds include the Bank's loan (6.6
percent), the local bank's loan (6.21 percent) and govenmment grants (5.0 percent, the opportunity cost of
capital). The weighted average financial cost of the capital for the overall project is estimated to be 5.6
percent (5.7 percent for Guangxi and 5.5 percent for Hunan and Zhejiang).
2.     The financial evaluation focuses on the consolidated financial capacity of each operating entity.
This annex is composed of the financial evaluation of each provincial component and the overall financial
evaluation of the entire project, including the probabilistic risk analysis.
PART I: FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF EACH PROVINCIAL COMPONENT
GUANGXI
3.     The project was executed by Guangxi Xijiang Project Headquarters. In 1999, GCD
commercialized GXWCDC, putting it in charge of the project dam/shiplock at Guigang and Guiping
dam/shiplock (a smaller dam/shiplock downstream of Guigang). The main financial revenue of GXWCDC
is income from power sales of the two dams. The power sales price is based on the agreement between
Provincial Power Bureau and GXWCDC.
Past and Present Financial Performance
4.     GXWCDC has had a very short period of operation, and no single set of financial statements fully
presents historical results on a basis comparable with current and projected future results. For this
purpose, a pro forma consolidation has been made with data extracted from the limited past financial
statements as shown below:
Guangxi: Income Statement (CNY million)
1999        2000
GXWCDC
Total revenue                  145.68        219.63
Total operating cost            95.14         92.70
Profit after tax                 2.49         18.95
Working ratio                    23.6         11.4
Sources: GCD and the Bank staff.
5.     The overall financial performance of GXWCDC in 2000, the first full year of operation, was
good. The net cash surplus (or profit after tax) has improved greatly since 1999. The working ratio
(operational efficiency of the company) is in the very comfortable range of 11.4 percent. The depreciation
reserve (CNY 71.8 million) is more than three times the total working cost (CNY 21.0 million), which
generates a strong intemal cash flow. The sharp decrease in the working ratio from 23.6 percent in 1999 to
11.4 percent in 2000 enhanced the profitability of the operations.
6.     The latest actual data, compared with the SAR's forecast, show that the financial performance of
GXWCDC in 2000, except for the working ratio (profitability) and debt service ratio (leverage), was lower
than expected. The main reason for this difference was that the SAR overestimated the power sales price
- 43 -



by about 44 percent. Despite the great improvement in operational efficiency, the net profit after taxes was
reduced to 25 percent of the original estimate. The major financial indicators of the ICR and the SAR are
summarized below:
Guangxi: Major Financial Indicators Comparison (2000)
Unit price  Net revenue  Operating  Working  Debt service Current Debt' equity
(Y/KWh) After taxes (mY)  ratio  ratio   ratio     ratio   ratio
GXWCDC:
The SAR    0.550     74.03      40.0     26.0       1.7      5.0    48/52
The ICR    0.307/_1    18.95    50.2      11.4      1.9      1.6    55/45
/_1: The price is the weighted average power sales prices of Guiping dam (0.243 Y/ KWh) and Guigang dam (0.354 Y /
KWh).
Future Financial Performance
7.     No difficulties in GXWCDC's daily operations are anticipated in the future. Although the loan
repayments to the Bank and other local banks, starting in 2001, may create cash pressures on the company,
these cash requirements can be met by transferring the funds from the net operating profits and the large
sum of depreciation reserves.
Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)
8.     The calculation of the FIRR focuses on the Guigang facilities (the project) only, and not on the
entire GXWCDC. The FIRR at completion is estimated to be 8.0 percent, with an NPV of CNY 444.3
mnillion at a 5.7 percent discount rate and sununarized below:
Guangxi: FIRR and NPV Summary
FIRR (%)     NPV (at 5.7%, CNY million)
Guigang dam         8.0                 444.3
HUNAN
9.     The project was executed by Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction & Development
Corporation (HXNCDC). HXNCDC was established under HPCD in 1994 and is the sole owner of
Dayuandu danl/shiplock (the first loan from the Bank) and Zhuzhou dam/shiplock (under the ongoing Third
Inland Waterways Project). Zhuzhou Port (ZP) is located downstream of the Dayuandu dam/shiplock and
Hengyang Port (HeP) is upstream. These two small river ports had very limited throughput capacity and
struggled for financial viability for years. The Banks' loan applies only to Dayuandu dam/shiplock, and
the ports component was financed locally (by government grants).
10.    For HXNCDC, the main financial revenue comes from power sales, and the power sales price is
based on the agreement between Provincial Power Bureau and HXNCDC. For the two river ports, the main
financial revenue comes from the operating income from cargo handling. Port tariffs are still regulated by
the government.
Past and Present Financial Performance
11.    HXNCDC, in its present configuration, has had a very short period of operation (less then two
years), and no single set of financial statements fully present historical results on a basis comparable with
current and projected future results. For this purpose, a pro forma consolidation has been made with data
- 44 -



extracted from the limited past financial statements. The salient points of the financial results for the
dam/shiplock and the two river ports (1998-2000) appear in the following table:
Hunan: Income Statement (CNY million)
1998             1999            2000
HXNCDC
Total revenue               --             31.56            119.09
Total operating cost        --             28.88            78.78
Profit after tax            --             (2.09)            3.62
Working ratio               --              6.9              6.7
Zhuzhou Port (ZP)
Total revenue              4.20            5.28              5.50
Total operating cost       4.00            5.05              5.26
Profit after tax           0.07            0.08              0.08
Working ratio              71.3            86.0              84.3
Hengvanf Port (HeP)
Total revenue              7.55            8.81              9.12
Total operating cost       7.89            8.51              8.70
Profit after tax          (0.60)           0.00              0.10
Working ratio              101.8           90.6              90.9
Sources: HPCD and the Bank staff.
12.     The overall financial performance of HXNCDC in 2000, the first full year of operations, was
good. The net cash surplus (or profit after tax) has improved greatly since the trial operating period in
1999. The working ratio (operational efficiency of the company) was in the very comfortable range of 6.7
percent. The depreciation reserve (CNY 72.0 million) was more than 10 times the total working cost (CNY
6.78 million), which generated a strong internal cash flow. The financial conditions of ZP and HeP in 2000
irnproved slightly from 1999 and 1998, although their' financial strength is still weak, which is due to the
thin profit resulting from higher operating costs.
13.    The latest actual data shows that the financial performance of the three components in 2000 were
lower than expected in the SAR, except for the working ratio (profitability) and the debt/ equity ratio of
HXNCDC. The major financial indicators from the ICR and the SAR are summarized below:
Hunan: Major Financial Indicators Comparison (2000)
Net revenue   Operating   Working  Debt service Current DebV equity
after taxes (mY)   ratio   ratio       ratio     ratio     ratio
Davuandu       Unit price
dam/shiplock:  (Y/KWh)
The SAR        0.550       74.03         40.0       26.0        1.7       5.0      48/52
The lCR        0.313/_1     3.62         77.4        6.7        --        0.9      39/61
Traffic
ZP:           ('ooo t)
The SAR        480.0        5.42         71.0       63.0        --        9.0      4/96
The ICR        430.0        0.08         98.5       84.6        --        0.4       -
HeP
The SAR        907.0        8.01         72.0       65.0        --        10.0     4/96
The ICR        690.0        0.10         98.9       90.9        --        0.5      8/92
/_1: The price is for the trail period. The final unit price (2001) is 0.348 Y/KWh.
Sources: HPCD and the Bank staff.
- 45 -



Future Financial Performance
14.    Based on the current level of the power price to HXNCDC and the level of traffic growth at the
two ports, the three components may face short-term deficits in their income statement. Because it has
large sums of depreciation reserves, HXNCDC may not have any difficulty in its daily operations, but the
high operating costs of the two ports may erode the current thin profits and cause a deficit operating
income. Assuming they receive no extemal cash injections, the deficit situations for these two river ports
will continue until 2005.
FIRR
15.    The calculation of the FIRR focuses on the Dayuandu facilities (the project) only, and not on the
entire HXNCDC. The FIRR for Hunan at completion is estimated to be 5.0 percent, with an NPV of
-CNY 101.6 million at a 5.5 percent discount rate. The details of the FIRR for each component are
summarized below:
Hunan: FIRR and NPV Summary
FIRR (%)     NPV (CNY million)
Dayuandu dam            5.0        (100.50) (at 5.5%)
Zhuzhou port            5.9           3.15 (at 5.0%)
Hengyang port            5.0         -0.19 (at 5.0%)
Total             5.0        (101.60) (at 5.5%)
ZHEJIANG
16.    The project was implemented by Zhejiang Inland Waterways Project Administration Office (IWW
PAO) for the improvement of the four channels, and construction of Hangzhou Port (HaP), Jiaxing Port
(JP) and Huzhou Port (HuP) in Zhejiang Province. Zhejiang Navigation Administration Bureau (ZNAB) is
a government agency in charge of inland waterway shipping and channel management in Zhejiang
Province. HaP is located at the starting point of the southern end of Grand Canal and is busy for
river/channel operation. Both JP and HuP are newly created river ports, located at the busy channel
intersections of the northern part of Zhejiang Province. All the project channels and the three ports are
located in the same regional inland waterway network and are linked to each other.
17.    The main financial revenue of ZNAB comes from a channel maintenance fee and a construction
fee that was to be converted to a fuel tax (this conversion has yet to be irnplemented). The main financial
revenue of the ports comes from the operating income from cargo handling and leasing fees from the
private operators of the ports.
Past and Present Financial Performance
18.   JP and HuP have a very short period of business practice, and no single set of financial statements
fully present historical results on a basis comparable with current and projected future results. For this
purpose, a proforrna consolidation has been made with data extracted from the limited past financial
statements for JP and HuP. The salient points of the financial results for ZNAB and the three river ports
(1998-2000) are shown below:
- 46 -



Zhejiang: Income Statement (CNY minlion)
1998             1999           2000
Channels
Total revenue            230.23          260.12           248.16
Total operating cost     102.04          128.76           130.88
Profit after tax          63.58           79.16            61.16
Working ratio              34.6            40.5             43.7
Hangzhou Port (HaP)
Total revenue              16.78          20.62            24.92
Total operating cost       11.23          13.81            17.27
Profit after tax           0.94            0.08             0.48
Working ratio              61.5            58.8            61.4
Jiaxinp Port (JP)
Total revenue              --              --              0.37
Total operating cost       --              --              0.17
Profit after tax           --              --              0.11
Working ratio              --              ---             49.0
Huzhou Port (HuP)
Total revenue             3.45            4.67             4.55
Total operating cost      3.60            4.58             4.40
Profit after tax         (2.06)          (2.34)           (2.05)
Working ratio             53.4            38.6             33.1
Sources: ZPCD and the Bank staff.
19.     The overall financial performance of ZNAB and HaP in 2000 was good. Although there was a
slight increase in working ratio, it was still in the acceptable range (40-60 percent). HuP and JP started
business in 1998 and 2000, respectively. Both of the new ports are facing a shortage of traffic. Experience
in this sector has shown that traffic at new facilities increases gradually in the early years, particularly
when the facilities operate as toll facilities, and then traffic diversion accelerates. The operational
efficiency of HuP is the best of the four Bank-financed components for Zhejiang (at a working ratio of 33.1
percent). However, the light traffic has caused the port three straight years of deficits since it opened in
1998. Currently, the annual traffic in HuP is 0.25 million tons. It is estimated that HuP may not be able to
balance its income statement until the traffic exceeds its design capacity of 0.5 million tons per year. The
light traffic also affects the operation of JP, although the port's income statement shows that the port is
profitable. The acceptable working ratio (49.0 percent) of JP and its razor-thin profit for 2000 reflect the
port's under-utilization of its capacity. In 2000, the port handled 0.3 million tons of cargo, while the design
capacity of the port is 2.5 million tons. All three ports now show a liquidity problem, resulting from the
low current ratio (<1.0). Without an extemal cash injection, it is expected that it will take at least 10 years
to become normnal.
20.     The latest actual data show the financial performance of the four project components in 2000 as
follows: (a) traffic and net revenue are much lower than expected; (b) operation and working ratios
(profitability), except for HaP, are better than expected; (c) current ratios (liquidity), except for ZNAB, are
lower than expected, and (d) debt/equity ratios (leverage) are better than expected. The major financial
indicators in the ICR and the SAR for all project components are summarized below:
- 47 -



Zhejiang: Major Financial Indicators Comparison (2000)
Net revenue   Operating  Working  Debt service  Current Debt/ equity
after taxes (mY)   ratio    ratio       ratio      ratio    ratio
Total revenue
ZNAB:       (CNY mil)
The SAR      161.34        133.0         76.0      62.0        0.9        2.2      45/55
The ICR      248.16         61.2         52.7      43.7         --        4.0      18/82
Traffic
HaP:        ('000 t)
The SAR      3,000.0/_1     2.33         67.0      57.0         --        0.6      89/11
The ICR     7,440.0         0.48         72.0      61.4         --        0.2      49/51
JP
The SAR      1,455.0        1.04         69.0      57.0        0.9        0.5      88/12
The ICR        72.0         0.11         49.0      49.0         --         0.2     33/67
HuP
The SAR      1,620.0        2.15         66.0      55.0         --         0.6     90/10
The 1CR       250.0        (2.05)        99.3      33.1         -          0.4     79/21
/1-: Inland waterway district only.
Sources: ZPCD and the Bank staff.
Future Financial Performance
21.      Except for the four channels, the three ports, and particularly HaP and HuP, may face cash flow
problems when repayment of the Bank loan starts in 2001. HaP and HuP both also face pressure from the
need to repay domestic borrowing. It is expected that the intemal cash pressure will not be fully relieved
before 2006.
Financial Internal Rate of Return
22.      The FIRR for Zhejiang at project completion is estimated to be 4.4 percent with a NPV of -CNY
159.8 million at a 5.5 percent discount rate. The details of the FIRR for each component are summarized
below:
Zhejiang: FIRR and NPV Summary
FIRR (%)        NPV (CNY million)
ZNAB                         4.1           (165.0) (at 5.40/%)
Hangzhou port               10.0              80.3 (at 5.3%)
Jiaxing port                 5.3               0.2 (at 5.3%)
Huzhou port                  --              -61.7 (at 5.5%)
Total                 4.4           (159.8) (at 5.5%)
PART IH: THE OVERALL FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
The Overall FIRR
23.      The overall FIRR of the project (including Guangxi, Hunan, and Zhejiang) at completion is
estimated to be 5.9 percent and the NPV (at 5.6 percent) is estimated to be about CNY 181.8 million. The
higher financial benefits of Guangxi, due to its low working ratio (profitability) and the project cost
savings, have offset the negative impacts generated from other components of the project as below (there
were no FIRR and NPV calculations in the SAR):
- 48 -



The FIRR and NPV Summary
Guangxi   Hunan    Zhejiang    Total
FIRR (in %)                 8.0       5.0       4.4        5.9
NPV (at 5.6%, CNY million)    444.3    (101.6)    (159.8)    181.8
The Consolidated Financial Statements
24.    The two components (GXWCDC and HXNCDC) constitute the majority of the capital investment
(78 percent of the total project cost). The consolidated financial statements for the GXWCDC and
HXNCDC are shown in Appendix A.
The Probabilistic Risk Analysis
25.    To evaluate the project's financial risks, some sensitive factors were identified and tested. The
project's financial benefits may be affected by the following factors: traffic growth rate, power generation,
transport tariffs and the sale price of electricity. Any changes in these factors may affect the results of the
FIRR.
26.    To determine the degree of uncertainty for these risk factors, a probabilistic risk analysis using
Monte Carlo techniques was carried out. The results of probabilistic risk analysis shows that the FIRR for
the mostly likely scenario is 5.9 percent. The low scenario is 5.6 percent and the high scenario is 6.3
percent. The standard error of the mean is 0 percent. The detailed results of Monte Carlo test and
probabilistic risk analyses are shown in Appendix B and sunmmarized as follows:
Risk Analysis Summary
Range of EIRR     Most likely EIRR   Standard Error of the Mean
Guangxi      7.4% - 8.5%           7.9%                   0.0%
Hunan        4.6% - 5.4%           5.0%                   0.0%
Zhejiang     4.2% -4.6%            4.4%                   0.0%
Total     5.6% - 6.3%           5.9%                    0.0%
- 49 -



Appendix A
Page I of 8
Guangxi Xijiang Waterway Construction & Development Corporation
Income Statement
(Y million, year ending December 31)
1999    2000       2001    2002   2003      2004     2005    2006    2007
Power Generation (Gwh)                578.00   750.00    738.00  750.00  750.00   750.00   750.00  750.00  750.00
PowerSales(Gwh)                       550.01   716.18    738.00  738.00  738.00   738.00   738.00  738.00  738.00
Operating Revenue
Power                                145.68   219.63    241.30  241.30  241.30   241.30   265.44  265.44  265.44
Highway toll                              -        -         -       -       -        -         -      -       -
Shiplock fee                              -        -         -       -       -        -         -       -       -
Total                       145.68   219.63    241.30  241.30  241.30   241.30   265.44  265.44  265.44
Business Taxes /1
Value-added tax                      25.00    32.81      36.27   36.20   36.20    36.20    39.81   39.81   39.81
City construction tax                 1.00      1.31      1.45    1.45    1.45     1.45     1.59    1.59    1.59
Education levy                        0.75     0.98      1.09    1.09    1.09      1.09     1.20    1.20    1.20
Total                                26.75    35.10     38.81   38.74   38.74    38.74    42.60   42.60   42.60
Net Sales                             118.93   184.53    202.49  202.56  202.56   202.56   222.84  222.84  222.84
Operating Costs:
Salaries, wages and benefits          4.99     9.54       7.40    7.72    8.11     8.51     8.94    9.39    9.86
Fuel and power                        12.72     1.70      5.07    5.62    5.91     6.21     6.52    6.84    7.18
Materialandequipment                   1.12     1.38      2.10    2.18    2.30     2.40     2.53    2.66    2.78
Maintenance                            1.23     1.55     11.42   12.13   12.74    13.38    14.05   14.75   15.50
Others                                7.96     6.78       8.67    9.32    9.79    10.28    10.80   11.33   11.90
Total worldng costs                  28.02    20.95      34.66   36.97   38.85    40.78    42.84   44.97   47.22
Depreciation                         67.12    71.75      88.83   77.74   78.52    80.10    80.93   81.80   82.72
Total operating costs                95.14    92.70    123.49  114.71  117.37   120.88   123.77  126.77  129.94
Operating Profit:                      23.79    91.83      79.00   87.85   85.19    81.68    99.07   96.07   92.90
Administrative expenses                 5.73      9.69      7.20    7.60    7.99     8.38     9.69   10.16   10.68
Financial charges  IBRD                    -    28.76      21.00   29.62   28.25    26.78    25.21   23.53   21.74
Local                  11.06    25.14     27.27   42.96   40.87    38.78    36.69   34.61   32.52
Foreign exchange loss (gain)               -        -          -    6.05    6.04     6.05     6.05    6.04    6.05
Non-operating revenue (expense)        (0.98)     0.04     10.49   16.49   22.49    28.49    34.49   40.49   46.49
Profit Before Taxes                     6.02    28.28      34.02   18.11   24.53    30.18    55.92   62.22   68.40
Income tax 1_2                          3.53     9.33      11.23    5.98    8.09     9.96    18.45   20.53   22.57
Other taxes                                -        -          -       -       -        -        -       -       -
NetProfitAfterTax                       2.49    18.95      22.79   12.13   16.44    20.22    37.47   41.69   45.83
Working ratio                         23.6%    11.4%      17.1%   18.3%   19.2%    20.1%    19.2%   20.2%   21.2%
Operating Ratio                       80.0%    50.2%      61.0%   56.6%   57.9%    59.7%    55.5%   56.9%   58.3%
/I_1: Tax rates: Value- Added Tax (VAT)= 15% of total revenue, city construction taxs 4% of VAT and education levy = 3% of VAT.
/_2: Income tax rate = 33% .
- 50 -



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 8
Guangxi Xijiang Waterway Construction & Development Corporation
Sources And Applications of Funds
(Y million, year ending December 31)
1999      2000       2001        2002      2003       2004     2005       2006     2007
Sources:
Net profits                     2.49      18.95      22.79       12.13      16.44     20.22    37.47     41.69    45.83
Depreciation                   67.12      71.75      88.83       77.74     78.52      80.10    80.93     81.80    82.72
State contribution                 -         -           -           -         -          -        -         -         -
Provincial contribution      1,278.56     14.19    (186.98)
Borrowing:     - IBRD         130.18      61.96          -                     -         -              -         -
-Local         616.25          -     121.59
Others                             -         -           -           -         -          -        -         -         -
Total                       2,09460      166.85      46.23       89.87     94.96     100.32   118.40    123.49   128.55
Applications:
Capital expenditures          349.30    424.97      174.74       25.15     26.41      55.47    27.73      29.12    30.57
Other expenditures           1,934.75     12.54     334.34           -         -          -        -          -        -
Loan repayments:- IBRD             -         -       19.26       20.55     21.92      23.39    24.96     26.64    28.43
- Local             -      35.55      36.89       33.63     33.63      33.63    33.63     33.63    33.63
Change in working capital    (265.62)  (386.29)    (374.53)       0.17     (0.17)    (0.24)     2.72     (0.14)   (0.19)
Total                       2,018.43     86.77      190.70       79.50     81.79     112.25    89.04     89.25    92.44
NetFundsFlow                     76.17      80.08    (144.47)      10.37      13.17    (11.93)    29.36     34.24    36.11
Opening Balance                      -      76.17     156.25       11.78     22,15      35.32    23.39      52.75    86.99
ClosingBalance                   76.17     156.25       11.78      22.15     35.32      23.39    52.75      86.99   123.10
Debt Service Coverage Ratio    --        t.86       1.72        1.40       1.44       1.48      1.67     1.70      1.74
SelfflnancingRatio             --        0.10       0.10        0.28       0.51       1.00      1.00     1.00      1.00
- 51 -



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 8
Guangxi Xijiang Waterway Construction & Development Corporation
Balance Sheet
(Y million, year ending December 31)
1999       2000         2001       2002       2003       2004       2005    2006      2007
Assets:
Fixed Assets
Atcost                       1753.96     1755.23      2283.11     3919.4    3943.1    3990.2    4015.2  4041.4   4069.0
Less: depreciation             82.62      142.05       230.86      305.4      384.0      464.1      545.0   626.8    709.5
Subtotal        1671.34     1613.18      2052.25    3613.98    3559.14    3526.09    3470.16 3414.60  3359.44
Longterminvestmnent            181.05      186.35       174.74     224.74     274.74     324.74     374.74  424.74   474.74
Current Assets
Cash                           76.17      156.25        11.78      20.30      33.46      21.53      50.89   85.13    121.24
Inventory                       0.28        0.36         0.10       0.33       0.35       0.36      0.42     0.45      0.47
Receivables                    83.02       64.46        24.03      25.34      26.62      27.94      32.28   33.90    35.60
Subtotal         159.47      22L07         35.91      45.97      60.43      49.83      83.59  l19.48    157.31
Other assets                   31.75       37.71        33.64      33.64      33.64      33.64      33.64   33.64    33.64
Total Assets                   2043.61 2                2296.54               3927.95    3934.30   3962.13 3992.46  4025.13
Liabilities & Equity
Equity-State funds            886.16      869.66      1123.12    2797.72    2861.42    2923.22    3007.96 3096.77  3189.59
Long-tern debts:lBRD          411.14      473.10       453.84     433.29     411.37     387.98     363.02  336.38   307.95
Local          616.25      580.70        665.40     631.77     598.14    564.51     530.88  497.25   463.62
Current liabilities           130.06      134.85        54.18      55.55      57.02      58.59      60.27    62.06    63.97
Other liabilities
Total Liabilities&Equity       2043,61     2058.31      2296.54    3 3        39275    3934.30   3962.13 3992.46  4025.13
Current Ratio                  1.2         1.6         0.7         0.8        1.1        0.9        1.4       1.9      2.5
Debtl(debt +equity) Ratio     53.7        55.0         49.9        27.6       26.1       24.6       22.9     21.2      19.5
- 52 -



APPENDIX A
Page 4 of 8
Guangxi Xijiang Waterway Construction & Development Corporation
Major Financial Assumptions
I .  Power Generation and Sales             As in income statement.
2.  Power Sales Price:                      0.354 Y /kwh with an increase 10%  every 5 years;
3.  Business Taxes:
Value-added tax (VAT)                15% of operation revenue.
City construction tax                4 % of VAT.
Education levy                       3 % of VAT.
4.  Operating Costs:                        Increase by 5% per year.
Salaries, wages and benefits          0.35% of the total power sales.
Fuel and power                        0.25% of the total power sales.
Material and equipment                0.05% of the total power sales.
Maintenance                           1.70% of the total power sales.
Others                                0.30% of the total power sales.
5.  Depreciation                            30 years straight- line method.
6.  Administrative Expenses                  3.0% of the revenue and increase 5% per year.
7.  Income Tax                              33% of profit before taxes.
8.  Capital Expenditures (after completion):   Increase by 5% per year.
Annual                      1.0% of the total investment
Medium                     Once every 5 years and 2 times higher then the normal year.
Major                      Once every 10 years and 4 times higher then the normal year.
9.  Loan:        -IBRD                      6.6 % LIBOR-Based signal currency in USD loan and
20 year maturates including 5 year grace.
-Domestic                  6.21 % annual interest rate with 20 equal repayment of the principal.
- 53 -



APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 8
Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction & Development Corporation
Income Statement
(Y million, year ending December 31)
1999     2000     2001     2002      2003     2004      2005     2006    2007
Power Generation (Gwh)               193.0    414.05    60.0    560.05    60.0    560.0    752.2   1072.4  1200.5
Power Sales (Gwb)                    189.0    380.05    00.0    500.05    00.0    500.0    678.7    976.5  1095.6
Operating Revenue                    31.56    119.09   174.00   174.00   174.00   174.00   236.18   373.90   419.50
Business Taxes 11
Value-added tax                     3.90     16.022    7.84    27.8427.8    4    27.84    37.79    59.82    67.12
City construction tax               0.19     0.80      1.39     1.39      1.39     1.39      1.89     2.99     3.35
Education levy                      0.12     0.48      0.84     0.84      0.84     0.84      1.14     1.80     2.01
Total                              4.21     17.30    30.07    30.07    30.07    30.07    40.82    64.61    72.48
Net Sales                            27.35    101.79   143.93    143.93    143.93    143.93   195.36   309.29   347.02
Operating Costs:
Salaries, wagesand benefits         0.31     0.84      1.62     1.70      1.78     1.87      3.65     3.83     4.02
Fuel andpower                       0.26     0.60      1.10     1.16      1.22     1.28      1.64     2.25     2.58
Material and equipment              1.18     1.60      5.51     6.18      6.48     6.81      9.07    12.89    14.94
Maintenance                         0.13      1.80     4.41     4.91      5.16     5.41      8.71    14.41    17.36
Others                                 -     1.94      2.10     2.21      2.32     2.44     3.29      4.73     5.50
Total working costs                 1.88     6.78     14.74    16.16    16.96    17.81    26.36    38.11    44.40
Depreciation                 27.00    72.007    2.00    72.0072.0    0    72.00    117.54   120.26   120.41
Total operating costs              28.88    78.78    86.74     88.16    88.96    89.81    143.90   158.37   164.81
Operating Profit:                   (1.53)    23.01    57.19    55.77    54.97    54.12    51.46    150.92   182.21
Administrative expenses               0.56     0.96      1.01     1.06      1.11     1.17      1.98     2.08     2.18
Financial charges                        -    18.434    8.86    46.8244.6    5    42.32    39.84    37.19    91.89
Foreign exchange loss (gain)             -        -         -     9.47      9.47     9.47      9.47     9.47    21.11
Non-operating expenses (net)
ProfitBeforeTaxes                   (29 L) 3.62          7.32    (1.58)   (0.26)     1.16      0.17    102.18    67.03
Income tax /2                            -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -   22.12
Othertaxes                                                  -        -                  -         -        -        -
NetProfitAfterTax                   (2.09)     3.62      7.32    (1.58)   (0.26)     1.16      0.17    102.18    44.91
Working ratio                        6.9%     6.7%    10.2%    11.2%    11.8%    12.4%    13.5%    12.3%    12.8%
Operating Ratio                    105.6%    77.4%    60.3%    61.3%    61.8%    62.4%    73.7%    51.2%    47.5%
/_1: Tax rates: Value- Added Tax (VAT)= 16% of total revenue, city construction tax = 5% of VAT and education levy = 3% of VAT.
/_2: Income tax rates = Starting 2007, 33% of profit before taxes.
- 54 -



APPENDIX A
Page 6of8
Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction & Development Corporation
Sources And Applications of Funds
(Y million, year ending December 31)
1995   1996    1997    1998    1999   2000  2001   2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007
Sources:
Net profits                            -       -       -  (2.09)    3.62   7.32  (1.58) (0.26)   1.16   0.17 102.18  44.91
Depreciation                    -      -       -       -   27.00   72.00  72.00  72.00  72.00  72.00 117.54 120.26 120.41
Govemmentcontribution      140.20 236.20  220.10  339.54  201.99   96.20 143.46 266.94 274.48 175.14 115.21  59.95     -
Borrowing: - IBRD                 -  89.50   92.03  300.87  257.62    8.68 45.23 139.68 224.59 276.79 100.72  42.99
-Local                  -      -       -       -       -       -     -      -      -      -      -      -
Others                       3.87      -       -       -       -       -     -       -     -      -      -      -
Subtotal             144.07 325.70  312.13  640.41  484.52   180.5 348.01 577.05 670.82 625.11 353.63 325.37 165.32
Applications:
Capital expenditures       104.67 301.78  359.68  587.13  557.29  189.48 232.79 409.23 501.81 454.80 218.93 106.10   6.40
Other expenditures              -      -       -       -       -       -     -       -     -      -      -      -      -
Loan repayments: - IBRD         -      -       -       -       -       - 30.43  32.47  34.64  36.97  39.45  42.10  77.65
Local                                                       -      -      -      -      -      -      -
Changeinworkingcapital      10.80 (57.73)    7.32   34.46    1.23    5.28   3.57   6.18   1.04   1.11   2.12   5.13   2.21
Subtotal           115.47 244.05  367.00  621.59  558.52  194.76 266.79 447.88 537.49 492.88 260.50 153.33  86.26
Net Funds Flow                28.60  81.65  (54.87)   18.82  (74.00) (14.26) 81.22 129.18 133.34 132.23  93.13 172.04  79.06
Opening Balance                   - 28.60  110.25   55.38   74.20    0.20 (14.06)  67.16 196.34 329.67 461.90 555.03 727.07
ClosingBalance                28.60 110.25   55.38   74.20    0.20  (14.06) 67.16 196.34 329.67 461.90 555.03 727.07 806.13
Debt Service Coverage Ratio   --      --     --      --      --      --    1.62   1.43   1.42   1.41   1.88   3.03   1.46
Self financing Ratio          --      --     --      --    0.05    0.17   0.29   0.77   1.00   0.16   0.30   0.86   1.00
- 55 -



Appendix A
Page 7 of 8
Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction & Development Corporation
Balance Sheet
(Y million, year ending December 31)
1999    2000      2001     2002      2003       2004      2005       2006       2007
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost                     1656.00  2000.43  2066.43  2069.50   2072.73   2076.10   3459.60   3545.67       3554.27
Less: depreciation            27.00    99.00   171.00   243.00    315.00      387.005    04.54     624.80     745.21
Subtotal            1629.00  1901.43  1895.43  1826.50    1757.73    1689.10   2955.06   2920.87     2809.06
Current Assets
Cash                           0.20  (14.06)    67.16   196.34    329.67    461.90    555.03    727.07         806.13
Inventory                      0.00     0.00     2.76      3.09      3.24       3.41      4.54       6.45       7.47
Receivables                    8.95    54.16    20.00    26.68      28.01      29.41     37.11      54.85      62.63
Subtotal                         9.15    40.10    89.92   226.11     360.92    494.72    596.68      788.37     876.23
Other assets                   0.00        -        -         -         -          -      13.34     14.37       14.61
Total Assets                163.1i5  2941.53  1985.35  2052.61    2118.6    2182   3565.0    3723.61         39.90
Liabilities & Equity
Equity-State funds           895.09  1149.86  1179.08  1177.96    1178.19    1179.85    1786.53    1929.00    1976.05
L-T debts                    740.02   748.70   763.50   870.71    1060.66    1300.48    1361.75    1362.64    1284.99
Current liabilities            3.04    42.97      8.00     8.83      9.27       9.73      16.44     30.96       37.55
Other liabilities                 -        -        -         -         -          -      0.31       0.96        1.26
Total Liabilities & Equity  1638.15  1941.53  1985.35  2052.61   2118.65    218382   3565.08   3723.61        3699.90
Current Ratio                  3.0      0.9      11.2     25.6      38.9       50.8      36.3       25.5       23.3
Debt/(debt + equity) Ratio    45.3      39.0     39.3     42.5      47.4       52.4      43.3       41.4       39.4
- 56 -



APPENDIX A
Page 8 of 8
Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction & Development Corporation
Major Financial Assumptions
1. Power Generation and Sales     As in Income Statement.
2. Tariff Rates                   0.348 Y /kwh with an increase once every 5 years;
The first five years is 10% and 15% thereafter.
3. Business Taxes:
Value-added tax (VAT)        16 % of operation revenue.
City construction tax       5 % of VAT.
Education levy              3 % of VAT.
4. Operating Costs:               5 % increase per year.
Salaries, wages and benefits    Total 110 persons, 10000 Y/person/year and 40% M666for benefits.
Fuel and power              0.2 % of total equipment cost.
Material and equipment      0.01 YAkwh /year.
Maintenance                 0.22 % of the project investment.
Others                      0.004 Y/ kwh /year.
5. Depreciation                   30 years straight- line method.
6. Administrative Expenses        Over haed cost which is estimated to be 62.3 % of salary.
7. Income Tax                     Starting 2007, 33 % of profit before taxes.
8. Capital expenditures (after completion):
Annual          0.004 Y /Kwh / year plus 0.33% of salary.
Medium          Once every 5 years and 2 times higher then the normal year.
Major           Once every 10 years and 4 times higher then the normal year.
9. Loan:          IBRD            6.6% LIBOR-Based signal currency in USD loan
20 year maturates including 5 year grace
Domestic        Nil
- 57 -



APPENDIX B
FIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC ANALYSIS
Summary:
Display Range is from 4.0% to 8.0% (in%)
Entire Range is from 3.5% to 7.7% (in%)
After 1,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.0%
Statistics:                       Value          Percentiles:
Trials                       1000
Mean                         5.9%                                 Percentile       (in%)
Median                       5.9%                                       0%          3.5%
Mode                           ---                                     10%          5.1%
Standard Deviation           0.6%          Low Scenario                20%          5.4%
Variance                     0.0%                                      30%          5.6%
Skewness                     -0.16         Most Likely                 40%          5.8%
Kurtosis                      3.08             =-                      50%          5.9%
Coeff. ofVariability          0.11         High Scenario               60%          6.1%
Range Minimum                3.5%                                      70%          6.3%
Range Maximum                7.7%                                      80%          6.4%
Range Width                  4.3%                                      90%          6.7%
Mean Std. Error             0.02%                                     100%          7.7%
Forecast Total Project FIRR
1,00OTrials                         Frequency Chart                           30ulIers
034                                _1- 3
M0s                                                                    25 5
=    017                                                                    17    0
Dam (power generation and sales prices)          Channel (traffic, transport cost)
Normal distribution with parameters:             Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean               100.0%                        Mean                     100.0%
Standard Dev.       10.0%                        Standard Dev.              5.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity    Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 99.8%               Mean value in simulation was 100.0%
Port (traffic , ship cost)
Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean               100.0%
Standard Dev.       20.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 99.7%
- 58 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
4/92                         2    1 Financial Analyst, 1
Port/Maritime Engineer
4/93                         6   1 Financial Analyst, 1 Port/
Maritime Engineer, 1 Economist,
1 Operations Officer, 1
Environment, 1 Organizational
Expert
4/94                          7   1 Financial Analyst, 2 Port
Engineers, 1 Economist, I
Operations Officer, I
Organizational and Management
Expert, 1 Environment
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/94                       11   2 Financial Analysts, 1 Port
Engineer, 1 Economist, 2
Environment, I Operations
Officer, 1 Organizational
and Management Expert, 1
Resettlement, 1 Procurement,
1 Staff Assistant
Supervision
9/95                          6   1 Financial Analyst, 1 Port          S             S
Engineer, 1 Resettlement, 1
Institutional Reform, I
Project Officer, 1
Procurement
5/96                          4   1 Port Engineer, 1 Economist/        S             S
Financial Analyst, 1
Environment, 1 Resettlement
11/96                         1   1 Port Engineer                     S              S
4/97                          2   1 Port Engineer, 1 Economist/        S             S
Financial Analyst
10/97                         3   1 Port Engineer, 1 Environment,     S              S
1 Resettlement
3/98                          2   1 Port Engineer, 1 Environment       S             S
5/98                          1   1 Economist/Financial Analyst
6/98                          1   1 Port Engineer                      S             S
7/98                          1   1 Environment
7/98                          1   1 Resettlement
9/98                          2   1 Port Engineer, 1 Economist/        S             S
Financial Analyst
1/99                          3   3 Resettlement (Thematic)
6/99                          4   1 Port Engineer, 1 Economist/        S             S
Financial Analyst, 1
- 59 -



Resettlement, 1 Environment
12/99                         3   1 Port Engineer, I Economist/        S              s
Financial Specialist, I
Environment
1/00                          I   I Resettlement
8/00                          1   1 Port Engineer                       S             S
9/00                          1   1 Resettlement
12/00                         3   1 Port Engineer, I Environment,      S              S
I Economist/Financial Analyst
5/01                          1   1 Resettlement
ICR
8/01                          2    1 Port Engineer, I                   S             S
Economist/Financial
Analyst
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                136.4                        324.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                      74.3                         161.5
Supervision                               134.1                        340.2
ICR                                         2.4                          7.1
Total                                     347.2                        833.0
- 60 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
0 Physical                                 *H OSUOM O N O NA
Z Financial                                O H *SUOM  O N O NA
E Institutional Development                O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
Environmental                             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Other (Please specify)            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Resettlment
L Private sector development              O H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
X Public sector management                 0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
MOther (Please specify)                    O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Commercialization
- 61 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
0 Lending                                           OHSOS OU OHU
N Supervision                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS  O  u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
2 Preparation                                       OHS *S  O u  O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
2 Implementation agency performance                 OHS Os  O u  O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 62 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The World Bank, Inland Waterways Project, Staff Appraisal Report (No. 13934-CHA), May 26, 1995
Guangxi Guigang Navigation Junction Administration and Guangxi Electric Power Co., Ltd., Guigang
Hydropower Station, Power Purchase Agreement, January 1999
Hunan Provincial Power Company and Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and Development
Corporation, Power Sales Agreement of Dayuandu, October 12, 1998 (Chinese version)
Guangxi Xijiang Project Headquarters, Mid-term Review Report, May 1998
Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and Development Corporation, Mid-term Report, March 1998
Zhejiang Inland Waterways Project Administration Office, Mid-Term Review Report, March 1998
Guangxi Xijiang Project Headquarters, Documents for ICR, May 2001
Hunan Xiangjiang Navigation Construction and Development Corporation, Documents for ICR, July 2001
(Chinese version)
Zhejiang Inland Waterways Project Administration Office, Information for the ICR, July 2001
- 63 -






MAP SECTION






IBED 31723
GUANGXI PROVINCE                        -                            UNAN -ZHiEJJANG PROVINCE    A0
MAPC  (                                      12cc~~~~~~MP 
N,,                           KN                                .                Sc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aILake     -.CHINA
UNECONG  H V N A  ~~                             ,.                                                 .oooo(r                   INLAND WATERWAYS
- NUNNI                           .01        >~~~~~~~~~~0'~~~  ~   ~     ~                                                            - ~~~ -R                                               PROJECT
j~~~~~~~~~~
2030              o,o.                   oi\~~~~~~~~~?5 0           Dy-oo0                                           3-00
-             GE~~~~KIOMETERS                                                                                                      Z        lAN'6             -                     RSIN FD ATO
GUIGANG DAM~~~~~~~~~~~WGAN                                                      ooo    *,~~0N 
AND SHIPLOCK20.MP                                                                    $6 g-A-
MAP B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~540 -.o
2  100 200 300 400 5000                A     i01                                                 .MEES-HNi/                                                                            00<'oM                       u?EIN
METERS    ~20DAYUANDU DAM                                                                               -                                                                                                                4tt
0>                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND SHIPLOCK         HANG      .I                                 0      0    30  ,00    45(ox                         K4oW
MAPO D 
oUi.0,                                                                                             00                         124 M~~~~~~~~~~030
4.   '/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~METERS                                                                               600'4 ,
M 0   N G 0   L I A        0~~~~~~~0                              0
~~~~~~~.                                                           0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORT PROJECT SITES  '5S..L.A L V ;N N'M
2'                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHANNEL IMPROVEMENTS
0>4                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAM CONSTRUCTIONROOFbo
C-                                                                       S    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING DAMS                                                            'IE.O
.2 ~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~RIVER PORTS                                                                                                                     44ig
I                  R~~~~~~ANK FINANCED SEA PORTS-                              5                             (     eo      -< /
45 Os                       --  -   ~~~~~~~~MAJOR NAVIGABLE WATERWAYS
H                                            .4..Cs NAVIGABLE RIVERS                                          SA  X
0~~~~~~                V ~~~~ OTHER RIVERS
0  0E0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~CANALS                                                   Si1CH   N        H U0' N
0>        -o---"--o-  RAILROADS
o    450                            0    ~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED TOWNSi.0-                                  /
~~~~~~)            PROVINCE CAPITA/UISAOU noo
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES-                      M        '                 I                           TIA
/  04'>. ~~~~~~~~~~        / ~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                        '
Th,           b,oooooodhlb.M.,oDooi, oo   So.teOsW-ld 8-ok     VIETNAM  o
T6  -d      h.-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~,MAAF
.20                                                                                           N              HAINA         SOB   -lOU  IOU   BOB   P~~~~~~~HINABLHE
Pogoot '.   ooo.pMcoo oloooh bo.odoo,o                  >~~~~-V  LAO PEOPLE'T..
Roost                                               L~~~~~~~~~~~-'~~~~~ O~~EM   REP    7
THAILAND                                                                           "Tb'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'AN  AOGERB   
JANUARY 2002



