C'c4
-                 --22
8<4ACTION PLAN
of
Environmental Protection"for the Xiangjiang
Navigational Construction Project of
Hunan Province under a Loan of World Bank
REVISED EDITION
Hunan Xiangjiang Navigatioinal Construction
& Development Corporation
18 May 1995
Translated by Hunan Translation Centre
1995a5a I flE



CONTENTS
tntroduction                                           I
1.   The Objects for the Environmental Protection of the
Xiangjiang Navigational Construction Engineering       3
2.   The Excution of the Plan for the Enrironmental Protection  4
3.   The managemental project for the Environmental Protection  6
4.   The Investment for the Environmental Protection        19
6.   The Enforcement Bodies of the Environmental
Protection and Their Responsibilies                   22
S.   The Plan for the Environmental Monitoring              26
7.   The Responsibilities of the
EnvironmenXtl Managenent and the Enforcement plan     32
Appedix I  Summary of Environmental Evaluation
Appedix 2  Summary of management of Environmtal Protection
Appedix 3  Table for The Plan of Environmenal Monitorting
Appedix 4  The Parficle Gradaton of Silt on Shoals
Appedix 5  Table of Content of the
poisonous elements In silt on the shoal
Appedix 6  The menitoring equipment list for the envirommerital
monitoring sWaons of Hengyang and Zhuzhou
Attached Drawing 1    The Sectional Drawing of Water
Quality Montoring of the
Xiangjiang (HengYang-Zhuzhou)



Attached E;rawing 2  Locations of Environmental
Monitonng Points of Hengyang port
Attached Draing 3    Locations of Enviromental
Monitoring Points of Zhuzhou Port



Instrction
From Nov.21 to Dec. 3, 1994, the delegation of Worid Bank for evaluation of
the environmental impacts on the Xiangjiang Prmject and the official evaluation group
for the Xiangliang Project visited Hunan Province oe after anotr and held s-x-day
talks on the environmental Protection matters of the Xiangfiang nrvigational
constuction engineering 4uth the Xiangiiang Navigational Cnstrtion Corotion and
Hunan Uniesity. the environmental evaluation department. The talks clarified some
misunderstandings related to the documents submited by the Office of the Xlingjiang
Navigational Construction Project. The experts of the delegation and the group gave
their construtve suggesto  on the environmental protecin in the various phases of
the Xangj-iang navigational construction, The editor. in accordance with the summaries
of minutes of the two talks and with the Memorandum of project Evaluation has verffied
the original editon of "The Action Plan for Environmental Protection ot the Xiangaiang
Navigtional Construction Project and made up the new edi.*Io here of



The Actio Plan for Environmentl Protection
(Revised Edfflon)
The Xiangjiang (Hengyang-ZhDhou, Navgationai Construction Project is the
2nd-phase engineering of the Xiangjiang 1,000-tonage navigationa constction. 'ts
main engineerings include the navigational hub of Dayuandu, 120km Dayuandu -
Zhuzhou WaterNays dredging, 1 ,O00-ton age wharfs at the two ports of Zhuzhou and
Hlengyang. The enviromental evaluations on the engineering are fade step by step on
he action phase and operation phase of the three subpro;jects.
The Action Plan of Evironmental Protection of the Xianojiang 2nd-phase
Navigatonal Constructon Engineering hereof is based or, the Evaluattion Repott cn the
Impact of the Xlangjiang (Hergyang-Zhuzhou) Navigational Engineenng on the
Enmironment to make up an action plan for the excutionalma nagement and monitoring
of the ernirenmental orotection. The environmentai protection of the Xiangjlano 2nd-
phase NaAtional Coztruct,on Eng.i.eel  has t a '.- t_
the nver's envrronmrent and the comprehensive tunction ot water conservancy and
naviation into consideration and wi1l adhere to the policy "overall planning, phase by
phase enforcing, comprehense utilzing ,changing the harmful to be tie useful,
preventing and treating by the public, protecting the environment; insisting prevention
first,combining prevention and treatment, reinforcing administration and management,
promoting the treatment by the administration and management, canying out 4the
responsibility system " who pollutes the environment who shal take the responsibility
of treatment " so as to control and eliminate step by step the enironmental pollution
Caused by the engineering in the whole course of construction and operation of the
project and protect the environmental quality of the e4gineerinr-re.ated area
2



1. The Objects for the Environmental Protection of the Xiangjiang Naviational
Construction Engineering.
1.1- Water Quality: Control the poltution of the waste water of sand and stone
processing, the ;oss of bulk-cargo, wiater course dredging and emission of waste oil of
ships. etc. To make it up to the water qualfty standard provided in the Functonal
Dision of the Water Quality stipulated by the environmental protection aminisron for
the reach of the river.
1.2 Air Control the dust pollution of the engineeing of earthwork transportatior and
open stotrage of building waterials, especially caused bv loading and unloading of cOa!
and minerals at ports, 3nd make .he ai. quality reach the standard.
4 13 Noises: Conttrol the noises of engineering Machinery, loading and un.,nding and
transportation vehicle under the national or professional standards.
1.4 Enmironment of Reservoir Area. Due to the reonstructicn of the Dayuardu Hub, the
water level of the reservoir reach will be rised so tha, to immerse partial outlets of
drainage culverts and gates and ail the low-lying farmland and to endanger the stability
of partrial sections of the dyke-of the reservoir Active preventions and proper settlemert
shall be the oniy principle on the problem so as to reduce the impacts on the ecotope
arourd the reservoir as low as possible.
1.5 Fishery Resources: Develop the cuftivating fishery actuivety in the reservoir area
and protect thte fishery resources of the reach of the river.
r



2. Excution of Plan for the Environimental protection
The specific plans shall be mane up fo- the measures of environmental
protection and of pollution prevtention deterrninend by the Xiangjiang Navigational
Constrution project The relevant requirements concerming the supervision and
monitoring activties during the excution of the specific plans and the operation periods
shall be stipulated.
The management measures of the environ mental u-otection plan and the
determination of fte obects for supersion and monitonring during tfe design,
engineering and operation periods shall be of and based on the stpulations on Design
of Environmental Protection for the Constrution Projects drawn up by the state planning
Commission and the Environmental Protection Commision under the State Council in
light of the Law of Envircimmenta! Prmtection of the People's Repubi' of China and the
Administration of Environmental Protection for the Construcction Pro-ects and be ot and
based on the Administrative Prcedure of Erironmerntal Protectin for
Communications Construction Projects and the Strpulations on Environmental
Protection Administration promuigated by the Communications Ministry of the People's
Republic of China.
Tne Hunan Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau as the competent
authority under the Hunan Provnial People's Government are responsible for the
supervision of the environmental protection adminis- tration in Hunan Province; The
environmental protection bureaus at municipal (prefectural ) leve(s as the competent
authorities under the local governments are responsible ;'or the supervision of
environmental protection administration in the relevant cties and prefectures under
their jurisdiction; the envrcnmental protection bureaus at t1hIc county leve,- om
responsible for the environmental quality and take measures to improve the
environant,a) q;al  'J:-i  e,. elvant a.ea under their; ;urisdictwcn; th mo-nitor tations set
up by the provincial environmental protection bureau and the orarnzations and



instiutes under prefectural or municipal govemments carni out the enmironmental
monnitoring wvork.
The monrtonng stations at the reach of Hengyang City, Zhuzhou Cty and 4
counties under their juuisdiction, Hengnan Cout  Hengshan County Hengdorg
County and Zhuzhou County. monitor at the same time the water quality of the reach of
the Xiangjiang and the air and noises of the sensiti,e enirc-nmental points conemed
along the river that means the environmental qualitv in construction and operation
periods will be under their monitor and be fUlly controlled by them. The Xiargjiang
Navigational Constuction Development Corporation and Contractors wil take the
excution responsibility e. the environmental protection plarn for the Hengyang-Zhuzhcu
navigational construction ergJneenng of the Xiangliang. At the meantime. ,me
corporation shall take the responsibilty of supervision ond ranae-muern  o the
environment ot the proiect.
The management. administration and moritonnq institutes of environment
protection at the project area are as follaws:
: ::-  f  : :D -    -:   :   .  f  u~~~~~~



Hunan Provincila| Hunan Prcvinda!
Enviror.ment3:             ironmentar
Protection R ureau      iMantoring Centrai
t            ~~~~~Sta'aon
Zuz.nou          Zhuzhou          Hengang          Hentieng
Muunicipal       Municipal       -muicipal         Municial
ErMtrnmental     Environmer.tal    Ermironmeatal    Environmental
Protecton        Monitring        Protectin        Monitoring
Bureau            Stailon         Bureau           Staton
Znuzhou    ;                      -uzhou  Henadonr  Hlenonan
Ccunty            County          CoCr.A           County
ErMrorirnental   Environmental    Envionmentai    Environmental
Protection       PrrMtecnton     Protection        Protection
I Bureau    J      B ureau        IrBureau    _     2urea L
3. Management Project of Environmental Protection.
The Dayuandu Hub is a mluti-purpose project of the water resources. The retum
water of the reservoir wili channel a 90-kin navigatabie course upper reaches and
increase the navigable capacity of lower reaches so that to upgrade the course of
Hengyang-Zhuz&ou from the present V navigable classification to 1!1 navigabie
classification, and make the sail of 1000-tonage fleets available, the hydro-power
station with 120 MW irstalling capacity wili generate about 53C million kwh annualty to
relax thie tension of electricity supply, Vhe economic and ervironmental beneFits being
obous. As for the bac Impacts of t7e prect on tne environment, we would try Our
best to avoid and reduce them in the period of the constuction the project The
construction engineeinng and its relevart environsm-Iental protect  enginteeet oni  tc



designed. constructed and operated at the same time phase by ohase and the Stres
shatl be laid on both engineering supeNis;on and envirnmental supervo n both
The report has put forward the strategies of preventon and treatment for the
potertal imnpact on the ernronment by the en..ers in accrdance 'W"i t.e
Evaluation Report of the Envirorimental Impacts on the Xiangping (hengyang-zhou)
Novigational Corstuction Engineering.
3.1 The Engineering of Oayuandu Hub
3.1.1 Gonsideration on the flood conotr and the losses of submergence in the
design phase:
For reduceing submergence and bnnging no impacts on flood control of the
-eservoir area, the selection of normal water stc:'age ieve and . . -.e . f the hub
have been studied and demonstrated carefu[Nl
The font of over,flwo, has been widened. he ! idh'. of .he 2i-Ottc  sin.'s ,
overflow gate has been reduced as low as possible that almost be the same as the
attitude of the origiral river bed so as to form a lower, opened gate dan- .when
discharging the flood. to ensure the flood discharge in natural flow shape. To compare
the water level of 20-year encounted flcod after the completion of the reservoir p..ject
with the !evel of naturaf flood in same frequence. the dammini up just is 0.07-0-17mr
The normal check level is decIded to be SOm (Huanghai Alitute). Tne water level of
reservoir forrned by the upward reach of the dam fill be limited within the embankment
that wouid just submerge 356 Chinese mu of farm larxdl of enjyoyng the repayment
under the sts-e relevant stipulations. athouCh it .S a poor land for farm.
7



3.1.2 The impacts on the embankmnent of the reservoir by the rise of watr level
The flood prevention dyke of Hengyg City ;n the .:ter danmed ama ws
designed for 50-vear encounted flood and is in constructon. The enbankment of the
resernoir area is designed for 20-year et-munted food. After te comnplon of te
reservoir. the water level of the reach of Hengyang City wouid be rised 0.07rn and
0.17m at the front ofthe Dayuandu Dam by the 20-year encounted flood compared with
that of the natural state. So, the impact of the water storage of the reservioir s very
srnall on the flood control ability of the embankment of the tw banks of tme reach ard
may be neglected if the thin dykes in a few sections have been reinforced and
heightened property .Naw, the flood-control dykes in the area under the jurisdiction of
Hengyung Municipal People's Govemrnment is being reinforced and the average 1 meter
will be heightened . Ater the compeletion of the engireering, the flood preventon abi.lty
of the dykes will be improved greatly.
3.1.3. Protection of the banks slopes
Due to the rise of the water level wiening, the water surface after the. weater has
been stored in the reservoir. the immersion time of th' bench terace of the reservoir
banks would oe prolonged and the water erosion and water cut be more serious. So, it
is necessary to adopt the stone masonry bank and the sloDed bank cavered by grass
for the cuff bank and loose-soil bank to reinforce the dyke's safty.
3.1.4. Transform of drainage culverts and gates
There are 66 drainage cu!verts and gates in the reseroir area. The present
outlet base plates of them are lower so that they woul;J be submerged when the water
level of the reservoir nsed tha will affect the their Cratnaae function of detained water
and sewage- So, they shall be tronsformed and be equipped wzth needed facilities
before the water s.orage of the reservoir.
8



3.1.5. The prevention of watertogging for land below tMe normal water level itn
the e:mbankme.t
There is 15,000-plus Chinese mu of !and below Me normal water level in the
ernbanknent calcuLated according to the rneasurerental dwang, of which there is
600o-plus Chinese mu helong to Hengshan Cointy accountng for 2% of the total
larmland of the county; 900 C,;inese mu to Hetngdong County, accounftrg for 1.3% of
the total farm!aid of the county. These farm. land namnty scatter around Longying Port
and .Huangni Pow of Hengshan County. After the Water leve of the reservior is ised,
the level of underyround water of those areas would be atso nsed. Because the lands
mentioned above are at ower place, the drainage of the watedioggi.g v. becone
d1ifTicult so as to affact the outout of t1he crops. The different waterlogging shiall be
treated by different way: Fcr the large area of  f-c-g band,  C.he  snt
practice of the area it shall adhere to the onncna! "to DumD the hpaher-wvater with !a
higlh intack pos;tion- to purmp VTe law-water with7 a loW intack  pcidn a. ( d# to cp--
inside water and outside water of the embankmenl' and butid a ti3cd control channel
through w,hich wAter gathered frI  rain-area flw into Jhe reservoir. The wate.r w,l be
pumped into the reservoir from some cultivated land in loaver area which can't be
discharged by itself and crops prograrm mTy tbe cbanged ad.  sorne present cultivating
lanc may be changed into fishery farm.
About all, Measures mentioned above to be adopted ae foCr Keeping the local
peopes iMng standard no lower than before
3.1.6 Protection of fishery resource
After the hub has been co-npleted Ithe darn. vvuld be blocked t-e channel of
fish m:igation so thsat the parent population can not rntcratea tC. trhe upard reaches for
spawniltng that *R affect the rfztsheri resourccs. Por -   ncxr-n; the cccn m o .
of the main course of the Xenojiang protectinga the tfsherv resources. the hub tri it



Of the suocestul practice of other area will build the !.shpass. which Wi!! take the
charactonstics of fish into consideraion -.or the spawning migration of fish to the upper
reaches and ensure fthe fish to migrate from the Yangtze through the Dongting lake to
the Xiarx4iangs upward reaches and then bac  The reservoir may be fully uilized by
the fishery department to develop the fishery farming.
3.1.7 Noises control and tfhe " three wastesc disposal.
Water pollution:The waste water of the engineering area mainly comes from the
sands and stones proccessing system- It has been estimated the suspended solids
density in the waste water, although diluted by the river water, wvill still surpass the
standard. So. the waste water shall be settled in a settling tank before emission by the
contractors.
Noises Proveniffon: The noises in the engineering area are mainly caused by the
ergineering machiriery and the proccessing of sands and stones. The noises
happened irregularty, suddenly. u rsuccessively an-d very strongly. Because the
engineering area is located at the open and wildness places more than 300 meters
away from any villages, the impact wilU be very sm.all. But,for easing the trouble of
noises on the staff members and worKers at the engineering ste, the contractors shall
select the machinery with good performance, adjust the operation time property e.m. to
arrange the wvrk with loud noises in the day time and make the noises source as far as
away from the living quarters of the engineering area-
The waste residue treatment: There will be waste earth and residue in large
quatity at the engineering areas that shall be treated property and make the waste to be
the useful. The contractors shall, in accordance with the require.ments of design of the
engineenng, use the waste earth and waster residue to fill the low-lina lands close to
the engineering areas or use that as the road meteriaL 't is est. atad that about 3-00-
* Th.nese mu of lw-wying land will be transformed lito cultite frmland by the
10



returning the surface soil to farmlandc! measure (The earth throwng area refer to
4.1.4.c. the Summery Report)
Air pollafion: the air pollution ove7 the engineering area is rnainiy caused by
the tail gas discharge of the engineering machinery with the diese as their power and
the dust of powder nratral of building, earthwork and tilling engineeing But the
engineering sites are at o en places wth a dmtance to any w71ages and a natura damp
condition. the air pollution will form no social effects. However because. the earthwork
and stone mining should strip the surface of the soil and destroy the vegetative cover
so as to cause the erosion of soil and fose of water and hurm the natural landscape. the
contractor(s) shall plant trees and lay turf on the slopes after the engineeni.gs have
been completed to prevent the loss of water and erosion of soil and to beatffy the
envrronment. Tne pawder material shall not ?be pilled in the open air.
3.1£ The impact of transportation of building materials on the environment
The sands and stones in large quatity shall be transported by water-carnage.
The highway tausportation will be mainy for cement, that the tracks 1i l cause the air
pollution and noises pollution at the sides of and over highways bearing the
transportation. ff is entimated that the peak traffic voiume wvii be no -more than 50
trucks!24h And because the highway to the engineering sites lies at tne wildness close
to no sensitive poirts of environment such as the important institu4tes and schools, the
noises pollution and dust pollution will be easy to be controlied effectiely only by using
of the big-tonage tank trucks with good performance and laying an asphalt or concrete
layer on the existing highyway entering the engineering site and. meanwhile, reinforcing
the monitor durnng engineering period
1 i



3.1.9 The environmenta! Drotection of tte stone Pts.
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n t    tf..   L'%*    _S_ fls ,.__ tA_   t_C  .  .Jtt_.fl__ .. ._..,  .
,..    ,     MaZZ .Z.   e .     , ..v n< - t gc . <.. .t ... _g  W._   ., LW  ..
pits close to the enainennen sites to mest the reaurrenents 0 stone ciuaald. l-he
environrnenta5 protection vI! be bo,e by the cners of stc-ie pit pro-e d- by the  oai
governments and the  ocal environmental protection depatmes to prevent the
vegetatve cover destroied and the loss of water and te erosi-n of sL. The saftiy
protection of the stone pits shall be camed out in accordance with the relevart
stpulatons and safety protection regulaton.
3..10 The public hygiene
The damp ecotope around the reservoir due to the water surface of the reservoir
is widened is favourabie to mrquitces and f.ies' breedng.- t   ie   t-e ;4w= atever
wou!d force the mouses to rnilrated so that to encrease the morbidi.t of the relevant
infections. Bec;ause .he staff       and -vork=  -.- -t-e
concentrated  elaily, the public hygiene has direct relatonship with healt of then
So it is necessary to !aunch a deratization and dernosquitotZation campaign and ciean
the bed of the reservoir have the staff members and workers inoculated, coIlect and
treat the waste of the living quarters by proper ways.
3.1.11 The safety of navigaton during the engineering phases
The first cofferdammirig phase of the hub engineering, it will be arranged tiat the left
bed for diverin ancl, meanwbile, for the te.nperarv water way. The increased current.
speed will bring the unsafety factors to the navigation. So. besides to draving up the
temperary navigation plan in tte design phase, the navigational administration shalt b
reinforced the signs of naviaat;on shall be perfertty set up. more tak-ec-are staions
shall be established or tne e ive navigable guidance.
12



32 Port engineering
rhe sts for three wharfs to be bunt t e  Hengy-zang .R  and ZhuLhou Port
have- been selected stncttv  in comfrnitv with the state relevant stipulations for
environmental protection and flood control that ensure the .eeded distance between
intakes of the drink water and the wharfs, ensure the partial flood canais occupied by
waterworks s at te pots will have no impact on the flood discharge. The seleco has
been approved by the relevant ernvronmentat protection departnants and the relevant
canal administrations. ITe wharfs engineering will not cause such impacts as serious
as the normal impact of the engineering of municipal corstuction because it is just a
small engineering with a short time limit
3.7.1 Air Pollution in the Port Engineering
Baishi Port of Zhuzhou ts a coal wharf and there are lile phosphorus mines
loaded and unloaded at Ditngia andge of Hengyang, sc the dust caused duing koading
and unloading and air storage peenod will exceed It classiflcation standard of
atmosphere. The effective water-spray device shall be installed. .he S% of f.oating
coal dust will be reduced if water content of coal is kept above 6% in accordance wih
the experiences at home and ab-cad. The phosphorus rooks will not have serious effect
on enmronment due to ts big grain size and its strong coheisve force. It was
calculated that the thickness of landed mineral dust at the edge of port area will be less
than that of It classification standerd of atmosphere quality when the equal speed of
wAind is 2mns and the water content of the mineral is 2%;°. and the stability cf atu.osphere
is 11 classification- When the wind speed increases, the standard will be exceeded. So
the port area shall be watered at time according to the wisnd speed and planted trees
keeping the sand in check and controling the dust and beaut_Ifing envronmernt.
,3,



3.2.2 Water Pollution caused by Port Engineenng
A. Impacts of cozl  d -hs-orus rocL-s on .%ztar quaty
The water quality will be affected ty coal annd phosphorus rocks spitt and
washed out  by rain durnng loading and unioading anc storage penoc So, we sho.cu
reinforce admnitatsOn and clean and recycle lost goods in tme. Besides forbdding
cabin cleaning in tne port area, We plan to cany ou. the sewage work ana iead vie
sewage from drainage ditch to sedimenron tank The dredge will be collected and the
water purified be reused.
S. Influence on water quality caused by shipping waste
The mission of o0it waste water of ships will influence te water quality of the
port area, especiatly m the sensdive water area of the first-Cass protectoin area for dnnk
water in the lower reach. The Chinese govemrnment and HuJri ProvnCial Govemnment
attach great importance to pollution and decKdes to adopt the effecte measures to
control s±zictty the pollution. In accordance with the Chinese Inspection Regu:ations of
Facilities on Ships and Seas!' promulgated by the No.109 Order of State Council of
Republic of Ch.i.a and the Stucture and E4uipment Specification of Pollution
Prevention on Riverboats " Stipulated by China Nabonal Shipping fnspetion Bureau, all
the operational ships shall be equipped with oil-water seperator, emission control
system or waste oil and water cubin (cubide) . All the shipping water shall be recycled
.i FHengyang Port and Zhuzhou Port for central treatment Then, the pollution of oil will
be controlled effectively
C. Public Hygience Administration of the poft
Reinforce the hygiene adminsltrtion in the work area and living area by port
adminitation department The domestc sewage shal be drained to the sewer of the
cty by by-pass laow system. The house reuse shall be deatt with treatment stem of
the city so as to prevert the bad influence on watr qualiaty.
'.4



D. Noises
The notses of the ports are mainty caused by rec4-.-rzcW opwation the regiona
equal noise value is 50-6Odb(A) in a forcast At the places ty metes far away from the
operation area, the noxse value is 50(A), which rs umder the  tional stndard of
envionmental noe that prvdes the noise shall be less than 55-65dmA) in the
industrial area and the stipulation on the design specification of the port and have no
senous impacts on the environment.
Dingia Eridge area of Hengyang Port is boated in the suburb which is not the
residents gathenring area. The old houses area around Baishi Port of Zhuznou, lated
at the municipal tansform area is taken as land of port construction. There are no large
scale municipal constion project in the two above mentored areas
The exstng sand and stone wharf will be oved mLt of the center of cty and the
cargo-handing capacity will reduce from about lO00t to 420kt due to the construction
of Yongii area of Zhuzhou Port With the tasform of function of port reduction of the
cargo-handling capacity and the imprvement of loading process, the envrormentaf
quality of Lhe port will be improved obviously. The max noise in the center of por will be
reduced from 91 d8(A) to 65dB(A). The transportation of the port to the outside wll be
eased and the pressure on the main road of the City will be moderated- The cdoetng
and distributing transport conditions of another two port areas has been conncted with
the municipal construction plan. The construction of the port wil be finished at the
same time with the completion of the first-grade ring road of Hengyang Ciy and the
second-grade street along the rver of Zhuzhou City wMll be improved greatly.
3.3 influence on the environment caused by the dredging work
The dredging work; consists of dredging and reef e;:czio;n wr,* in twenty thn
shoals of the 120km reach from Davuanlu to ZhuzhoU. and dredging worf of B2!shi
*   f~~~~~~~~~i



Port and Yongli Port in Zhuznou. wit oMal dredging capacity of 8235kmn, among
which, dredg-ig, capacin hioa!is 8O-kc3. dredgir. capact a. Bs  ,  -p.3
(mainly reef explosion work) and dredgiV capacfty at Yongh port 3.51=&.
World Bank g;es the specWa-atenti  on the environmental problem caused Dy
the construction of dredging work and remcval of dredging silt and sets the folowing
demands.
a. Set up the heavy curtains for prevention of sift and adopt the dredging
equipmnents with litte turbulerne or. sift dunng the engneerng o dredging work in the
dry season so as to reduce the short-tefm turbidity in the dredging area as possibe.
b. Make the physical and chemical arnalsis to the silt prior to the turid action
so as to lower the natural and for man-made poisonous substances ot sift into water.
On the bass of analysis, the latent problem wilt be fourd and sore measures '5ill be
adopted to try best to reduce the silt suspended again in tis area.
c. Evattute property an the spoi plan, ho  wtich haa !st in.eere n. t"I
man resident area will be sellected. If takiro the inflruence on the gnoundwater. ra!nrwash
and land using caused by spoi' grmund into cons;daration Itn smae csi,,ten t
harmful waste shall be collected in a structure which is used to prevent the poisons
substance from prmeatng into the water-bearing stratum as possible. some harmless
silt may be reused, but the proposal that uses those silt to bacidil the marsh land is not
regarded as the best way to solve the erironmental problem.
The consructin of dredging work shall adopt the relevent mea-sures to reduce
or eliminate the latent influence on the environment
3.3.1 The influence on the water quality caused by dredging work
The stirring of bottom silt in the dredgirn of shCEl will cause the increase of the
troubling in the river and ha.m4fil substance suspe.nded agai.. In. aGccrdance wth the
physic- chemical analysis (the details see Appendix 4 and :) of substarce dredged in
1w



wo typical shoats the iver bed of reach is rainly cornose of Debbes the. content at
poisrnous substance is ow er, besi'es tf s, the pout&on on the water, aspecialir On the
dnk water caused. by dredging work is limted. We wwil supply abundant infmormaton in
the bid invitaton documents to ask the contratos) to select the proper dredgn
equipmerts and optimized .operaion process, even set up the heavy curtains for sit
prention if necessa,y so as to reduce the short-term toubidity and the liquIation of
harmful substance in the dredgying area .We wdll also monitor the water quatiiv at the
lower reaches in the constucton of dredging work
3.3.2 Spoil of the dredging work
The cortent of harmfUt substance in the spoil of shoal dredging work is lower in
accordance wih the analsis in attached table. The spoil area of shoal dredging wordh
will be designed on the basis of successful Chinese nver regulating experence to
;mprove the flow conditon in the shoal and gain regu!ating effect The sit dredged Till
be used tor filling the embankment and farmland, blocking up te tributary.razse the
border of the river ard tIlting and mising tuhe infavou.ole d'aep pool. The spoil of the
port, mainlv the rocl Mil be used as bacfill matenal fur land of tne port.
3.3.3 Influence on-the fih caused by the dredging work
The analys made by Hunan Provincial Environmental Monitoring Center and
Charxgsha Municipaf Environmental Monitoring Station in 1992 shows that the harnmfl
sustance in the fishbody is under the international and China standard on food hygiene.
In accordance with the analysis of above c:ause. 3.3 1. the content of heavy mertals in
the sit of river bed is very low and the dredging work will not cause serious polluton on.
the water qualt, Besides this, the shoals to be dredgged are not the place for fish
dewelhing. So the dr.edghng ar.d reef explosion will bnt be inju.. to !ish and ifrCeoC
the poisoncus substance in the ftsh body.
17



3.3.4 Safety Rules on Reef Exploion
The -ee exploson work within the water : -.ay bc muzous to the st ps ard
people tafc if we don't stengthen safety measxw So the explosin wrk shag be
appoyed by the ravgatonal administration deparent and the naviional notice iU1
be released in advance. The contractor(s) Will calculate the explosion ran, take the
effectve say measures, stipulate the exposion time, set up fte clear signs and
waming lines and evacuate the personne and ships in tme and make the comple
and carefuii safety inspection in the expiosion
3.4 Historical Relic Protection
The ancdevt buidngs sattered in fifty *,on  p,!z   and .hstcncza memorie
building announced by Hunan -roiceial Government in 1983 is not included in
engineering range. Dayuaindu is A ..r--chennsi-pe -rsa-   th *tse level *;r  b l
limited. No undercround relic is discovered by surve-ync and investiatn  in the
engineer.iQg rang.
3.5 Influence on the environment.caused by leakage In. accident
The leakage of dangerous goods in the accident of loading and transportato
will have a serioS effect on water quality and atmosphere. So we should canTy out
actively the policy of putting prevention first and taking the special prcautons to meet
an urgent need so as to reduce the bad influence on the environment to the least if the
accidents occur.
Strengthen the safety educdtion on tne personnel for loading and transportation.
stricy exeute 'Te T. ernporarj Proision of Inspection Ship Conditions for Clangerous
Goods Loading " and " Suoervision and Administration Rules on Loading of Dangerous
(0



Goods in :Shi promulgated by Communicamon Ministry of RR Chi  and other similar
reu:ations.
If the leakage occues in an accident all the emergency measures shall be
adopted to p.e%ent the polution fom speading. At the same time, the peron at the
acccdent site shoulld report to local navigational supervison depament so as to
connect wth anv;ronmantai protecton and and publc security depertment-to handlee
the accident immediately and effectivey.
4.1nvestment.on Environmental Protection
The environm.etal protecton project shall be in;ested on the fonlawing it.ems:
comoensaton for the flood prevention maintenance of the reservoir in the Oayuandu
Hub, vQterloggirig control facilties, enrnnt  prtecticn lbdities acn  a.dln
at the ports. environment monitonng dunng the proiect construction and operaton
peniods and personnel tbrainir    b for p., .m.pote           for dn.hag.'eaz
facilities is included in the engineering investment . The cost for fand requisition and
pulling dov.n the house is listed in another relevant action plan, so the funds for  the m,
exclude from the fiolomwng table.
Investment Table for Environmental Protection
Nenwe of                                                    inves#rte
Erineeings       ite:n                    Unit  Quantyd    (RMAB 103yuan)
Dayuanu     t. COuvat2 wnd Protecuon                        t3,055 0
1. Instaepciy of ww-ie-
5 g W Q d r wn-, 9 a -z ch-me  'A@nl.,   I25     M2 1.0



2. Vco.rna of eat.'1,ork for
ilood control caels              1043 734           2.g93% 0
3. Total area of flood
contro( canals                   mu    372          2,2920
4. Subsidy for change
df cropping                      mu    Z390         6.7020
It. Fishpass                     place  t           10,380.0
Ill. Renovation of sluices       pface              4,849.0
IV. Subsidy for reinfot-
cement of flood control
V Highway renaton                km       5         30.0
VI. Reservoir bank
protection                                          2,00).0
Vit. Sedimentation tank          set   2
V-II. Others (including
noises monitoring
instruments)                                        4,559-0
Subtotal                                            37,373.0
Hengyang    * Simple spraying car             set   I             10C.0
Port        I. Afforestation in port
area                             M2                 56.0
24



Iii. Rsecye4i :;    tea;.dt-
ment equipnent at
waste oil and water equipment                      50.0
Subtotal                                           206
Zhuzhou     1. Spriiing                      s     1            200.0
It. Sedimentation
tank                            set   1            105.0
Itl. Afforestation
in the port area                m2                 60.0
IV. Recycling and
treatment equpmeint
of waste oil and water                             50.0
Subtotal4.0
Environment monitoring
during co'strction and
operabon peiod                                     740.0
Personnel training                          3eS
Total                                                           39:102
Note: 1. The cost for computer management systm of environmental protection proet and
foreign language training are included in other relevant investment plan.
2. The expenses for purchase of hardware and software of computer for environmental
protection project are included in cther levant plan.
21



4.2 Supporting method in later stage:
In ac;=odance witf the stipukaton of 'Reguations on Land Reqston and
Reettlement of Residents in Corsbtuction of Large- and Medium-Scale Water
Conse.vancy and hydrelecic Pojects ",, Ne WU gie th cMmpensation fees at the
earlier shage, support the production in the later stage and estabfish construction funds
for mnaintenance of rseoir r  and supporting subsidy of pvducion
5 Environment Protection Adm.inistatlons and Respons!biliias
The task of communications department is to guarantee that all the
communicat;on aeterprises awd administration wI_ use different res-c  .-. ergy
rationally, cornro and eliminate pollution gradually, protect environment assure
peopes het and pomote the development of trafi.
6.1 The Environmental Protection Office under the Ministry of Communicatons is
.esponsible for coordinating the environmental protection work undertaken by
communications units.
5.2 Enmronmental protection organizations under the provincial communication
administ3tve department wll be mair i---7iponsible for the following work:
5.2.1 Cary out all the environment-al protection policies, laws anc regulations
promulgated by the m.liaisty Of communicatiorn and 'cve-n  fo..uia. the
enrronmental protection management measures and implementing regulatons.
22



SZ2 Work out tne plan of erwironmental portection and superse the imPteMent of it;
take change of the sics oeronment protection work
5.2.3 Take chae  of envionnental portection adriniraion on the funderntal
constructon project;
5Z4 Supervise the plution treatment urderta)ed by the subordinrate units. formulate
thie erergency plan to meet to the pollutio in the accident and investgate a-id hadle
thie pollution by accideft.
.2.5 Organize the nonitoiNng. research and intomation cf enmronment, popularze
adanced technoky of e-Mranimet.,na. prdecton.
5ZG Supervise and inspect the utifization and maintanance of envronmental
protection fac,ities in the subord aate units.
5.2.. Set good examples on enrnonmental portection a7d giv comrandation to the
advanced units and indiviuals.
5.3 The responsibility of enviroatmental protection office (wfth 2-3 personts)
under the Xiatgiiang Navigatona! Development and Construction Corporation
are:
6.3.1 Carryng out all poficicQs, laws and regulations on enrronmenstal protectton::\
23



5.3.2 Working out the plan of envronmnrtal protecton for its unit:
6.3.3 Taking charge of enrronmental protection for its fundemental constuction
Iprc4ect
5.3.4 Organizing and spevising the poilution bet mmnt in its unit instifng and
handling the pollution events;
5.3.5 Reinforcing the managemert and inspection of special faciliftes for envromental
ro                                tctecnti-n ;5    4 tt t
strengthenlno the transmron feedback of intormation tor environmental protectroP:
5.4 The Xlangjijang Navagafiorna Deveopmernt and Consbrcon Crporaton has
established the envronmental protection sections (with 2-3 perons) in the hub of
Dayuandu, Zhuzhou Paot and Hergang Port which are responsAbie for
5.4.1 Supervisig- ar.d carrring out the plan of environmentai protection during the
constsuction period. Providing the infomation on ervironment monitonng dunrng the
construction and excutoin of e-mironeretal protacton measues perod. Ass;st-ng to
investigate and handle the pollution events. Reporting tte environment problems
ssw;ed f -s-+J*¢V% *vhic ra;s.e ii: Ld ...;4 c t-t.-*uC _l-Vt   j **
caused by -'-""ct     ich '    ' m..e irad nCa.,,.. ..Of'1fC,z-;';y Cin ' Z
the local envmronmental pratecvon and commurzcation aeoartment in trme-
24



5.4.2 Cot ecting and analysing tfe environment monitonng docurments dunrng
constrution a-d operabon pemods. Clar4ing the respomsibifty and the degree that the
environment $ influenced in the engineering; stirulatng and executing the relevant
measures for treatment
The environmental protection admnistnations
under the Xiangjlanfg Navfg&tonal Construction Project as well as its function.
Enyiromental Protection
Office under The XIang-
jigang Navigadonal Cons-
-        ; ~~t:ructi-on CorporaLtn  }
_-i -                                            I
Environmental Protecticl Environmental Protection  |Enviromental Protecton
Secon of the Power     Secton under Zhu2hou    1      tiect  under Hengyan
Shilppig Adrniistraor I  Shipping Administlen
.  .         ~~~Department||*PXhn
Environmerta protection and              c5rivnmenta peon control
pollutioinI                                  e por      ad environ-
hub and regulating reach                 ment monitoring in construction
and envirornment monitoring
in c*nstruction
,         ~~~5



6. Enronmental Moniorng Plan
6.1 Monitoring Targets
6.1.1 Water quality
The purpose of the water quality monitoring is to monitor and then control the
pollution i.ruence on the wtater of the Xiangjian. caused t-y  Lreenrg so as to keeP
the water of the Xtangjicng in conformitv with the water Cualitv functona  dustrict
standard. So, the Oanr-d4; hydlm  I.dex  t-i' "       ...  f  *Jr X-d
treatment of wate water trom tne aggregate processing in the construction. WIt the
domestic waer- plant poved 1 km  onse, .gyHWG ord '3Z:hu- P.;hu pos ' '-
to the drink water protection area it is very improtant to take measures for water quality
prmtection in the osbst ction especially in the operati  pods through =mtonr.
The water quality monitoring is mainlv to monitor the temPorar turtidity and
liquidate of her metl in the dredging area during the constriction of dreding mrk
and influence on water quality caused by shipping waste durng the operation period so
as to keep the water in dredging reaches, especially the drink water in corformity MIth
Chinese standard of water quality.
6.1.2 Air Monitoring
The air monitoring is intended to inspcct the dC..Ie o  r-ence n
atmosphere caused bv trio construction anc. operaton of the oiect. atter vansius
protectio  meawres here b2ee  takan, axcording to tw .uirem-nr    atesp
quality in different distrnct Atmospheric monitoring for the pro,ect is ma!nlv performed !n
the -nnstructon peziod f aivandU HU, and the _pa ;t  . pe' of
Zhuzhou  pors  adopting  class  !! standardl of total susperded  particle
26



frSPDQ.O3mgfm3) specified in the atmosphere erMronmerntal quatly stan d s as
control standard.
6.1.3 Noises Montozing
In accordance with the anays and forecast of environmental evaluafton report,
the noises mainfly caused by the openation of madhinery duirng the COnstructiOn and
operation peniods wiU not exceed "Limit Value Of Noises in Construction Sitea and the
standard for indust,y centazhzed area from "Ambist Noises stadard fOr   ES"
(G3096-821. The mechnical noises at the ports have been corolled to conform with
t.~~~~~ MQ* &%.A  S.    Iv  U. *    tIslS in.> ta .*    n., u.n..  t   2   t'...'St  . .pfl_   _'.-_  SiLt
Personnef causec bV the noises vwil be corsidered i noise contro[
qualitv standed and ambient noises standard for cities are extracted as tollamvs
6.1.4 Fish Resource Monitoring
The affiectiveness of fish-way engineering and the iruOwnce of resenir on
spawncng area wil be confirred through the invistgaton on variety and quantity of fish.
Coordinate wth va.-ious enji=nmental protection units to st-enghwen the
monitorng of harmful substance in fish body.
Environmental Quality standard for Surface Water (JB3838-B8)
Unir: mD/'
Classificalio.n
Parameter                      I tn                    tv           V
AN the water body shall exctludj- :toow au
factors:
27



Basic       aU alt uta can sediment and form the disgusting precipitate;
require-    b. the floating matter stch as broken pices, floating debris, oil and
ments         other unpleasant materias,
c. the mater which can produce disgusting color, srnell and taste or tudb*d
d. the natter which is poisonous and hanrful ID human and animals
and plarts;
e. the matr  whtich s easy to produce the dtsgustqng aquac Wng bei
Dissolved
oxWen>             Satuatbon rate 90%   6   5     3      2
Chemical
oxygen                   <15          <15   15    20    25
demand(CO0ca)
Bilogical oxyge
demand (BOD5)            <3           3     4     6      10
Petroleum (exbacting)    0.05         0.05  0.05  0.5   10
with benzinum <
Ntrogen(k) <             0.5          0.5   1     2      2
Nitrate (calculated
in N<                    10           10    20    20    25
Table: Urban Ambient Noise Sftndard (GB 309642
UnitLeq(dB)
Applicable area    Day time     Night              Remarks
Industry centralized
area               15           55
Type-Imixed                                        Normal Commercial &
area                55         45                  resident area
28



Environnental Table Atrbspher Quality Stardard (GB 3095-82)
Name of                             Concentiabion limit (mglm3
pollutant
Time   test    Ciass I    Cass I           class in
Total Susspened   Daily averaWe    0.15       0.30           0.503
partcle(SPM       Anytine        0.30         1.00           1.50
Floating dust     Daily average   0.05         0.15          0.25
(ISP)             Anymtie         0.15         0.50          0.70
Sphurdioxude      Average perday     0.02        0.06        0.10
(SO2)
Daily avemge      0.05        0.15         0.25
Anytirne          0.15        0.50         0.70
Nitroge oxide     Daily average      D.05        0.10        0.15
(NO)
Any time          0.10        0.15         0.30
Carbon monoide    Daily average      4.00        4.00        6.00
(CO)
Any time          10.00       10.00        20.00
Photo chemical                       10.00       10.00       20.00
oidant                               0.12        0.18        0.20
(0)
6,2 Env.c--nnenW Monitcing Contet and Items.
29



In order to invistigate the influence on the environmet caused by whwa
loading, shipping and construction and operation of  Dayuandu hydro hub and
waterway dredging worK the monitoring work shall include the monitoting of water
quality, atmosphere quarly, noises and fish resources, in the range of engneerkng
concemed in different period.
The water quality monitoring involves the inspecton of content on
DCOBOD,COD,SS, PH, volatic phenol, ntides, Hg, Cd, Cr, Pb, Cu, Zn, oil, ammonia,
nitrogen and colibacillus, etc.
The atnosphere monitonng items mainly include the inspection of content on
suspended partcle, falling dust, SO2 and NOx, the noises monitoring majors in the
inspection of noise intensity in the construction sites and the residence close to the
highway connected wifth the construcion sites; the fish monitoring majors in the
inspection of variety and -quantity of fish and analysis of harmful substance content in
fish body, (The details see attached table 2-5)
6.3 Training of Environmental Protection Personnel
The enwronmental monitoring for the project in the cornstrction and operation
periods -vll be carried out by the enviromental protection departments of cities
(counties) along the river, which are qualified for environment monitoring at tese
departments is required. The personnel o. the environmentl protection units under
the Xangjiang Navigational Construction Corporaton will attend the medium and short
term training programme and on-the-spot invistigation  Of which, 8 peoples will be
btained in China and 5 in foreign countries.
30



6.4 Monitoiring Orgats
The special envronment monitonng stations have been setWished in
Hengyang, Hengsthn, Hengdong, Zhuzhou (icluding Zhuzhou Conty),' which are
scattered along 182km rach from Hengyan City to Zhuzhou Cty. The stations of
Hengyang and Zhuz    cities are evakiaed as natonal class IlI staon, 'which have
been well equipped and reinfored by qualified ernironment moitoring engineers, the
ernronment mnditoing equipments list and the details of monitoring items of bt
statons see attachment 6 ), the stabons in the other four counties are nationa class IV
staton, all of which have qualification and capacaty for the norrmal environment
monitoring. At present, the water quality of river and environmental quality in other
sesentive point of environment have been controlled according to the monitoring results
of all above mentioned stations from monitoring sections and points in all year. Water
quality inspection systern at three levels (shi,plant, company )has been set up in water
plants along the river, so as to keep the water quality in conformiy with the Chinese
standard. Coordinating with other four environmental protection stabons, Hengyang and
Zhuzhou environment monitoring stations, entrusted by the XGarxjiang Navigational
Construction and Development Co. Ltd will be responsible for the environment
monitoring work of the prclect The monitoiing points and monitoring frequency will be
increased in accordance with the monitoring results and actual situaton of the project
so as to meet the requirement of environment rnonitonng.
31



7. ResponsibilKy and Acton  Plan of Environment Adminlstaffon  and
Manage m,t
7.1 Responsibility of environment admin isratlve and management organs:
In acordance wit  "Ervironmental Protection Las of Peoes
Republic of Chri'" enVironmental protection deparmets in charge at all levels wil be
responsible for unified adminis i and supervisin on environment protection work
in the area under their jurisduction ,comrunicaos departments Wil be responsbe for
the supersion on enviMronmertal pollution control and prevenin caused by
Professional actions in accordance with relevant laws and regulations.
(1) Hunan Provincial Environmental protecfion Bureau will assist and instruct
the Xangjiang Navagaional Developrnt and Construction Corportion (hereinafter
referred to as XNDCC) cooperaion with focal environmental protection departmens
and enrronmental protectin organizations under XNDCC to cany out the
environmental protection administration and managemert during the shipping
construction and operation period.
(2) Hunan Uiniversity as a national grade-A irnsitute for environrent evaluation
is responsible for i gation and evaluation of environmental conditions of the project
and preparing the environment evaluation report and suppleerntay documents.
13) XNDCC is responsible for prepanng the docurents of project under a loan
of Wor.ld Bank loan and drawing up the environmental protection plan of the project and
then caring, out the effctive administration and management of environmernal
protection through their work in the construction and operation.
32



(4) The proceeding of ervironmentl protecton administrao is as foIows:
ronenA Inuemex
IASSeSSMenIRePoW
_                    ~~~~~~~~PolAncial ErM knmental
The_cmensao  h  aa sbm ed bthe esemr andteoBureaau
_~~~mn                                .
tommuntectin worksPwUa opt "con stMunicipal (counthes
Designlinse  ce uertmxNo      goernmeytprOmcnon
trouegctnesion  EnvJronrnen theYsn p   d
I . seG~~~~Sons of Power _s_a_
_engyang  Municipal Govemtin a,  me       Co u8   Entyronment
goeneT he compensation         forhe he embankment sby nthe Inser ank pteilon
detennsione thog  co,utain  bemntepjc   earmn nXa                       n
HengYang Mnicpal Goemment  HengshauA n  Proutan HegngCny
govrnens Arnd e      o the omen ato for es   b the emaketsrengting bank proetonrl
renovation of sluices and the change of cropping plan are to be resposible by the
relevant deoartment of cities and counties concerned.
33



72    Construction of te Project and Environment Administton Plan
The arrangement of the cortructon of ermronmertal protection project wil be
deterrnined according to the fUnction of the items and te progress of the different
share of the engineering, for example, te protection work in the resevor area, should
be completed prior to the resenior impoundment; the failibes for treatmnt of waste
water in constucton period should be provided in the preparatory stage of the
construction ; the environmental protectin facilities will be put into use at the same
time when the engineeing is in operation, and, hawever, while the environmental
monitoring work should be run through the whole construon period and five years
period to check the effect of the environment protection facilities.
Schedule of Project Construction and Administration
Isms    =       j94   I2 5   1896 |   oo    ie    109   2000
Land acquisition and  T _
tpslgdowr the                                     --I-
house
Pollutiontreafrpent o  _ _        - 1        1               - _
hydro complex
constuction
Drainrage and
system at ports           .L.-
AM'orestaftin at
areaandports      - - _  __
instaatbon ooif  1 -
water sparator in
the motorships
reAeonaiong of            1 
.,anks protecton   f                     -      -
controple       II   IIf|IEIEIh   I *'-I -          -      f ~ I     I
sluices and ood   |                                            i
monitwing      I    .1         :i:J: I
34



AppendiX I Summary Table of
-valuatfon on the Environment Impacts
Piedictiont
Project .                 _                  . _ . Prediotion Method    Standard Applied   Eavirornnontal Impaet
Itrn           Content
Wator quallty In  COD,           Two dimensional      The DI grade surtaco  Every Index in the
the upstream of Yolattle   phe- conv4etfon diffuslon  wator onvironmontal tlrlfnktng  proten%ion
the reservolr    nol,            model,               quality standard     area mcets  the 3]
cyanide,         Oil 8atbeting esti-  (GB 3838-88)        grade wator quality
mercury,        matton mtodel                             standard
cadmium,
chromium,
arsenic,
alumtnluum,.
h    Aquatic          The fish' s mf-                                            Tho fsh's migration
statlon    and                                            and spawning will bO
spawning                                                  Influenced  by  the
£2..
The Ilse of Wa- Reservoi}                             Dosianlna Measurcs  Ther* will be 349
e'   ter lavel        Inundation and                        Atbout tho Jrrisation  mu farmland to be
8   .   roseuloment                  And    Hydro6lectrIc  inundatod,   804m'
P     .                                                     proJoot (SDV30-84) houso to be disman-
o                                                                                tied and 18 poople of
3 housos to be roeat-
o                            .                      .                            tledt .
Bernks ant cul-                      The local flood level The water level will
verts surround-                      in the 20-yoar flood  inoroaso 0. 07m to 0.
Ing tho reservoir                    frequency             Ivrn, and  it will
hAve little influence
on the banks but
3omo Influeno. on
the drainage of tho
69 culvorts.
____   ___________                             ______                                1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



A,di I (contined)                      __
Prodiotion
Project       _                             Prediotion Method     Standard Applied   Enviromnental Impact
Item            Content
Impact  during  Production                                                   Tb   .ivor will bo-
the contruction  waste   waet,                                               conN  miuddy and the
stage            dust,    noise,                                             air  id noiso envi-
discarded   soil                                            r    .;t t in the con-
and stone.                                                   . ,ction region Wil.
Morsen.
The Dingjfaqiao  Plying  dust of Gauss   oontinuous  Air  enviromi-,ental The  port and  the
Pott         in  phosphate ores   point sourcc model   quality standard      vicinity of the port
Hengyang                                                (G309585)
Oily water       One-group mono-di-  Surface water quall-  GOncrally tho drink.-
from vesela    mienstonal model       ty btandard           In& wator quality is
(Ga 3838- 88)        not affocted
DrLiking wator qual-
Ity stAndard
(GB6749-85)
Iv
x  Noise         Point nolse  sourco  Enviroinmontal        Noiso in tho port ra-
model or line noise  noibe standard  fot slon  can  meet tbh
source model         urban region          ttxndard. Tho noise
.(0B3086-82)         has little  influence
on the Cievironnlent
The yong)i port  Coal  dust  In  Gauss point souroe  Alr  cnvironmontal 1'he  rogion  about
and the Baishi  loading and un- model                   quality slandard     440m  far from  the
port ln zhuzhou  loading                                (GB0905-82)          pollutlon center ;tl
meets
.  _ . . Od~~~~~~~03095-8



AiDo n       I (continued)
Prodiotion
Projeot                   . _                 Prediotion Method     Standard Appliod   EnyiromneAtal Impaot
Item            Content
The yongll port  Oily water from   One-group mono-dI-  Surfaco water quall-  Gonorally tho drint-
and the Dlsib  vyessels             monsiona.l model     ty standard            ing water quality is
port in zhuzhou                                           (GBod38-88),          not affected.
Drinking water qual-
ity standard
(OB5749- 85).
Noiso             Point noiso  souroe  EnAronmontat noAis   Nolse in the Baishl
model or line noise    standard  for urban  port cAn meet stan-
source model          region                dard.
(GB3086-82)           N4olia in tha YoonsU
port sometimea ox-
Shipplng,Route  Rlver's capacity                                                The transport, mix-
Regulation       of holding pol-                                                turo and dooxygena-
o                      lutants                                                        tion of tbe pollutant
will ba spoedod up
eAd the rivers' a ca-
pacity  of  bolding
pollutants  is  im-
0
:                      .                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~proved .
Aquatic animals                                               Thb  proloet will not
and plants                                                     produce new  pollu-
tion sources or dam-
n  ago  the  spawnling
ground . or block the
fis3hs miarating
Course. So tbo pro-
ject will have little
influcnuc on
0                                                                                     squatic animals and
plants,
0                                                                 .__ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _



Andtx I (continued)              -
Predlotion
ProJeot                  .                  Prediotion Method     Standard Applied   Enviromnontal Impaot
Itom           Contont
The   Influenoe                                             Blasttng  iookt and
during the oon-                                              exoavation  of rivet
structlon   peri-                                            bod have little mfltU-
od.                                                          once on water quall-
ty durini abort paoi-
od.
Inceaeme     of Yssuol    nolso                         The  atindard  for  The poUutants dis-
ftetght volume   aad  disohaged                         pollutants 4Ltoahrd-  harded from  vassel
waste                                 ed from vessol         accordilig   to  the
(053852-83).          tanctard have little
.nIluenco on  watar
.   .           .                    ~~~~~~~~~~~q.uality.



A ppp.neix 2
Smnmaty Table
of
the Administration and Management of Environmental Protecfion
for Dayuandu Hub Project
i. Designing Phase
Main Prlems                  Control Measures            Excutors
11 Flood prevention    1.11 Selet correcty the proper dam site.  Hunan Design
and submergence of    dan type.flood disca    type, afw widh  IJnstitute
the reservoir area   and resonable regulaing level so as to reduce  of
the losses of submergence and have no   Communicafions
impact on the flood prevention in the
reseffoir area.
1.2 Rising of water  1.21 Adoptthe stone masonry bank and the   Hunan Design
level to widen the   slopped bank cavered by grass for the ciff    Insiumte of
water surface, to    bank and loose-soil bank                Communica-
prolong the immersion                                       tions and
time of the bench terraces                                   Hengyang
and to increase the water                                    Municipal
erosion and water cut                                       Govemment
on the banks
1.3 Rising of water level 1.3.1 The dykes of the section under the  As same as the
endangers some dyke   administration of Hengyang City are being  above
fortitying setions and    reinforced in the winter-engineering oF
submermes partial    embankment proect, the average 1 meter
drainage facilities  will be raised on the exsting dykes, After
the engineering has been completed the
flood control capacity of the embankment
in the reservoir area wil be encreased;
1 32 The wouJd-be-submeiged drainage
gates and culert, overflow canals shtall
be tarasformed and imprved befoe the
.~~~~~~~



water detention of the reservoir.
1.4 Submerging the   1.4.1 Build the oeflow canals before water   As same as the
farm Land inside the  detention of the resenrvir,            above
dyke of the resenroir   1.4.2 Transform or build pumping
station;
1.4.3 Pefeatthe plantabon-change plan;
1.4-4 Well settle te assisting work at the
later phase.
1.5 Safinization and  1.5-1 Because of the enough rainfall and by    As sarne as the
alkalsnizain of soil    adopting the above mentioned draining  abowe
in the embarkment    measures, the frm land will be kept in
area                 in good conditions
1.6 The migration of    1.6.1 Build the fishpass fishes migration  Hunan
fishes blocked by                                            Hydroectric
the dam                                                      Design Insthite
1.7 Influence on     1.7.1 Reinforce the tree planting and afore-    The govemments
ecoystem             statn, enlarge the fores caver ratw so as  of Hengyang City
to pr-veft water los and soil erosior,  at levels
Develop the ecoagrcuture and reduce emission
of sewage.
1.8 Historical reic  1.8.1 Its a channel-type reservoir. In the inspec- As same as
protection    .      ton and prospecting, no hisWtcal relic above-  the above
ground or underground have been found.
2-Engineering phase
Main Probienms             Control Measures                  Excutol
2



21 The muddy        211 Build seftiing tank enmit thewaste water  Contracto(s)
degree irncrease    after treatmert or purchase ff ready-for-use
by the waster water    sand and stone material. Inspect and check the
of the processing   density of the uspeded solids regularly.
sandand stone
matenl in the
engineering phase.
22 Dust and air      221 The dust will shape no air pollution tecuse  Contractors)
pollution caused by    the engineering sie is wide enough and is some   enviroment
engineering ard      distance to any villages and because of te damp   monitor
transpotatio        condition of the water conservance engineeing.   station
of mnaterial        2Z2 Spray water on the earthwork site at proW
tines and plant trees and grass aftr the wvork has
been conpleted
223 Mix the concrete in closed mixture tover with
the bag-type stainer.
224 Use the special tuck with large volume tank
for transportng the building material (mainly
the cement).
2 Z5 Build concrete or bituminous road leading
to the engineering site.
226 Build the biturmen mixdng station installed with
the waste gas purifier at the leeward ot and with a
distance to resident and gather area.
22 7 Inspect and check the quality of atmosphere in
the engineering area regularly.
23 Noise pollution   23.1 Use the low-noise engineering machinery Contractor(s),
in the engineering  with good performance.                 the ervironment
area                 23.2 Arrange the high noise engineering in day section at the
times as possible.                     sete
23.3 Reinforce the maintenance for the
machinery of transportation and ergineering.
23.4 Monitor the noises of the corsbucdon site.
3



24 Water loss and    24.1 Afbar it has been cut into the shape, the   Coonractrs)
soil eosion caused   bank slopes shall be nansoned or greened by
by cut of bank       planting bees and grass as soon as possible
slopes,              and build drainage ditchs to pevent earth slide,
water loss and soil erosion.
25 Problern of       25.1 Because the sbone needed is purchased  The supp4ie(s)
stone pit            at the neai4y st;e pit, the stone supplier shatl  of stone
regreen fte places, resume the crginal
landscape and protect tie environment in
accordance with the requirment of the local
governmentand the mironmental protection
departnent
Z5.2 The safe measures shal! be made out for
the stone mining at the stone pit in accordance
vwih the egulatos promulgaWed by relevnt
authorities.
2.6 The waste        26.1 Set a ground for the waste earth and stone, Contactor(s)
earth and stone      then plant trees on the ground or use the ground
as farmn land.
Z7 Waste oil of      27.1 Collect the wAste oil of the engineering    Contractr(s)
the engineering      machinery to the treatnent station of the
machinery            wastr oil nearby, direct emission shall be
prohibited.
2.8 Collection       2.8.1 The sewage shall be treated by bar  Contractrs)
and treatment        screen, oil separating tank, settling tank firsty
of sewage and        (the fecal sewage shall be treated by septic
refuse of the       tak) and shall be reached the state emission
camping ground       standard before emit to the far?n land nearby
or directly to the Xiangiiang Rier. The domestic
refuse shall be collected by a central refuse
treatment centre.
4



29 Public health     29A.Well settle the clean work for the  Xiangjiag
reservoir bed.                          Navigational
29.2 Sellect the qualified watr resource of    Corstnction
drinkwater, if no resource, dig the wells  Co. and the
for taking the underground water.       Hengyan
29.3 reinforce the healfth administrabon of  Municipal
the residencial quarters of th engineenng  Government
area,
29.4 Anange the epidemic prevenion work,
if needed, for the staff and workers and the
residents nearby.
2 1O Safety Admi-    210.1 Reinfore thesafet adminstration in and Contrac!ors).
nistraton in the     carry out the safety operaton regulations for the the relevant
engiseering phase    blast engineering;                      provincial
2-10.2 Well setfle the temporary navigation plan tansportin
and facilites; reinorwe the navigation admini-  and communi-
stration, pefectly set up navigabon signs; set   catons admini-
up take-care station. if necessary.     strtv depart-
nients.
Z11 The underground   211.1 Notce as soon as possible the ocal    The governments
cultural relic       cultural relic protection departmnts to  at leveis related,
take the emergent protee measures, if   Contrator(s)
find any underground cultural relic.
3.Operation of Navigaton
Main Problems               Control Measures                 Executos
3.1 Waste mataral    3.1.1 Allships navigated trough the aea shall The enWronmen-
treatment (including  be instaled the oilwater seperator, emission   tal sections of
waste oiD            control system and the waste oilwater tank;   ports, the
The domestic waste and cargo's waste shall  rerant shipping
be collected, then sent to the collection  companies



staton for treatment
3.2 Noise contol    32.1 Reiforce the ship inspection, probibit   The ship
of ship             the operation of ships that the noises surpass  irspecton
te standard of noise control.          depwment.
the revamnt
shipping
companies
3.3 Industrial sewage   There is no industria sewage to be ernited  Hengyarg
by the hub itself. The indusral sewage  Municipal
mainly come from Hengyang municipal    Government
area. A sewae cut-off project is on con-
suion in Hengyan municipal area by
the Hewyang govemnment After the project
has been completed, the drink water quality
rnil become better.
3.4 The harmful      Reinforce the safety training for the staff and    Administatve
maerial leaing      workes of nigalion conpanies, stictly cany  departents of
accident            out the state regulatans on shipmrent of dang-  transportion
erous cargo, report any eaing accidnets to    and commu-
relevant departnents and take emergency  nications, ship
measure to insure the safety.          inspections
deparanents,
shipping
companies
3.5 Fish resources   Monitor the species and amount of fish through Environmenta!
monitring           the fish channel by the fish channel mnonior    protection section
centre                                 of the power sta-
tion, Hengyang
Envronmentai
Monitor Station.
3.6 Wate quality     Monitor the water quality regularly in accor-



l
monitor             dance with the relevant plan.
7



Summary Table
Of
Enviromental Protection Administration and Management of Ports
1.Designing Phase
Main Prbiems                Conrol Measures                  Executom
1.1 The influrce of  1.1.IA site of portshall be selected ata plaoe  Hunan
loading and unloading   with a distance to the crowded area of people;  Communications
at the port and wharfs  the stricture of wharfs ancd the occupaton of   Design Institute,
on the flood control  any flood channel by any wharfs shall be in    Hunan Navi-
facilites of the city  conformity with the requirements of flood  Affaifs Design
diversinThe designature schematic,      Insttte
only after approved by the municipal
flood control deparment, become valid.
1.2 The protection   1.21Theselection of anywhaffs'sites shall   As same as
of the drink war     be in comfornity wit the state retevant  the above
source in the        stipulabons that any sites of wharfs shall
constuction of the   keep a necessary distance from the intake of
wharfs.             drink water.
The machinery loading and unloading pavcess
and building of port, especially the bulk-cargo
wharfs.
1.3 Waste water      1 .3.lThe rain and washing effluence shall  As same as the
treatment at the     be collected in the setling tank for    above
port areas          teatrnent and then to imits after it has
reached the relevant standards.The
domestic seweage shall be drained into
sewer.
1.4 The dust influence   1-4.1 Control dust by spraying water on  As same as te-
on the ervironment    the bulk-cargo wharfs, plant trees and  above.



at the ports        grass to form a green bett and green the
port area for control dust in accordance
with the requirements of " the Poit
Engineering Technical Specicaton of
China .The green area shall be over 15%
of the tot area of a port
1.5 Waste emited by    1.5.IThe wast ol collecive staion and t  As same as the
shps at the pot area   rubbish collectivv staio shal be set up  abov
at the ports.
2. Construction Phase
Main Problems            Control Measures                     Excuts
21 The pollution on  21.1 The scle of the port constrution  The contaccor(s).
the water quality and   is small, so that the influence caused by  The environmenral
air caused by port  port construction on the environment   potection
construccfion.      will not exeeding that of the building  secton of port
construction engineering.
The cement shall be transported with
closed tank truck Air storage is not
aiowed.
The watr quality and air quality shall be
montored regularly.
2.2 Construction    22.1 Choosing consbution machines wit  The conbcso,
noise.              good performance and low noise and     environmental
strengthing the noise monitoring during  protection sections
the construting period.                 of ports
try best to arrange the engineering with
high noise in the day time.
2.3 Public Health   23.1The domestic rubbish in the lImng area    The contractor(s).
shall be collected and sent to tie rubbish  the municipal
2



station of the city                    sanion and
The ostuction workers will take potetie   antiepidemic
inocuaton ,if necessaW. to prevent a disease  departments
from spreading-
3. Operation Period
Main Problems           Control measues 
3.lTreatnent of     3.1.1 All the ships in business operation shall be Shipping compa-
waste emited by      instalted wfith oil Wr  separator and emmision niesand erwirn-
ships(in cluding     contrd system and wase oil and water tank    ment prOecton
waste oid)           (cubide).                               secto of the
Waste oil and qater are not aiowed to be  ports
em;ted into rver directly.The waste oil nd
water collecti stations shall be established
at the ports. The domestc rubbish of the
ships and fte dregs of th e goods shall be
colleted and sent to rubbish station.
3.2 Noise control    3.21-Checkthe ships stricUy and pohibit the
at the port         ships, which is not in conformity with the
noise standard to operte.
Adopt the loading machines wifth ow noice.
Strengthen the maintenance management
of the operational machinery.
Monitor the environmental noise regularly
shipping and port enterprises, Erironmental
protection departnent.
3.3 Wast water       3.3.1 All the ships in business operation be    The environment
treatment at the    installed with oil water separator and   protectn
port area.          emmision control system and waste oil    sections of the
and water tank (cubide).                ports-
3



3.4 Leakage of the  3.4.1 Strenghen safety educato to the   The shipping
harmful substance   loading and btnspor8ing personnel and   companies the
in accident         canry out sicty the national stipulations  public security
onloading and ransportg of the dangerous   departments
goods.                                 and the nvi-
Take ffe emergency meacures immediat*y   inspecton
to prevent the polluton from spreading and  departmet
report to te local shippaig inspection
department, if leakage happened, ad
cooperate with enwomnmenW roWtoi~n
department and public security departme
to carfy out te effectv teatment so as to
redue the ermrlnmental polluton as low
as possibe
3.5 Dust caused     3.. 1 Spray vter reguvl to control dust  The p04
by coal and         and clean the sites for loading of bulk-cargo    companies
phosphorus          and air storge.
minerals
3.6 Domestic        3.6.1 The domestic waste watr shall be  The port corn-
waste               emited into the sewer and the domestc   panies, local
rubish shall be collected and send to  erwironmental
the rubbish station of the city,         protection and
heafth
departments.
3.7 Increase of     3.7.1.The first -grade ring road is planned  Local
land transportation  to be built in Hengyuang m 2000 and th  govermen
capact               secor.d-grade road along the rver is
planned to be built in Zhuzhou, which are
the main transportation ways .Construction
o\f the two pors with low densi at
transporttion will not inccrease the
pressure of transporion in the cites.
3..2-The ex1sting sand and stone whafs will be
4



/



Summary Table
Of
Environumental Prote.ction Admidnitation and Managenmen
for
Dredge and Regulatio
I Design Phase
Main Problms           Control Measures                      Excu±or
1 1 5nfluence on the    1 .1.Choose the reasonable sift throwing  Hunan
erironment           area so as to impoe toe effect of       Navagional
caused by the silt   dredge and be beneficial to te          Affairs
from the dredging    divesion of the flood.       1nsutes
wo.k
1.2 The influence on    1.21 The distbuon of the river       As same as
the embankment a.d   regulatng structure shall be            the above
the inIte of pumping    reasonable so as to avoid the
staton caused by     erosion on the embankrment
reguluting structures    1.2.2The watr inlet channel wilt be
prepared at the dam root if the
regulabng structure ar
established in the channel
segment where the pumping
station is set up
2.Operatkon Phase
Main Problems           Control Measures                      E.xcutors
21 The influence    2 1.IThe shoala to be dredged            The contracto(s)
on the water quality    are composed of pebble or            the environmental
caused by dredging    rock in general. Tne contnt of         monitoring stations,
and deepening       heavy metals are low .The sumals are    fte environmental
I



engineerng.         scatted in the dcannel of 120          prcion Jsecin
lometer lng and fte unit capacity      of Dayamndu
of dredging is bh. Sothe hanmful       Pioec
substance and the boublng wil
not exceed the standard in large
rage and ong peiod if ta"
the fblkiNing ftrsures
A .choose the reasonabe dredge
boat-style and optimize tie
oprb  proess
B. Set up the sand arresting
heavy curtain,
C.Strengthen the wat quality
monitoring at the dredging points
of lower reach, especially the
the water irntalng places of te
2.2 The influence    221 Dredging and reef explosion wIll not be   The contactor(s)
on the fish         injurious to fish because the dredging
engneerng is to be carried out in the winter
and the dredging site is not the dwelling
piwe for fish.
222 The contnt of heavy metals will not
exceed the standard in large range and long
perod for the dredging with scattered points
is arranged in a short period st fat to
increase no heamful substance in the
fish body.
23 T'he influence on    23.1 Issue navigaion notice,stiputate expiosion
shipping safety      time and set up marts and warning rines tD
causedby reef        ensure navigation safety.
explosion
-2



3. Opeaion Phase
Main Problems            Conbol measures                  Excutors
3.1 Wase            3.1.1 All opertonal ships be instasled  Envomenta 
erited by ships      with oi-W  separAor and dscharge       protton
(including waste oil)   system and waste ail and wat cuxbine  sectons oF the
(=cubide).                             po  an
Sep up waste oil and water collecting  shippwg
staon at the ports.                    companies
Waste oil and watr are not allowed to
discharged into the rive directly.
3.2 Noie contro of    3.21 Shipping noises will not exceed  Shipping
ships                natonal standard becuse the            knspcion
X'ingjiang is vey wide and the         departrents.
embankment founded for flood cont      shipping
along cities and town is able to       companies
regarded as deafening defence.
3.2-2 Check shios and boats stictly and
prohibit the shippings which is not in
coformity wit noise standard to
operate.
3.3 Harrrful s-sbstance  3.3.1Strengthen safety educaion on  Shipping
leakge by accident    ship's cew, excute related stipulations  companies.
on the dangerous goods bansporttion    navigation safety
and lay down a set of prevenrie and    depaqtmt in
remedial measures.                     charye
Take all the emergency measures
irnmediately,if leakage happened, and
report to the environmental protecin
deparmeat and public security
departnent so as tb reduce the loss
and influence to the last
3



B     ~i |.*gii    I  i



CONSTRUCTION PHASE               Appedix 3   Action Plan Table of the Emlronment Monitoring
CHANNEL CONTRACTS                    PORT CONTRACTS                       DAM CONTRACTS
WATER         -30 da ys before construction starts on a  -30 days before construction starts on a  -30 days before construction starts on a
channel section;               _    channel sectiorn;                   channel section;
-sample morning and afternoon;     -sample morning and afternoon;       -sample morning and afternoon;
-sample at the first monitoring transect  -sample at the first monitoring transect  -sample at the first monitorlng transect
downriver frotmn the construction area;    downriver from the construction area;    downriver from the constructfon area;
-sample at each of the water intakes or  -sample at each of the water Intakes or  -samp1) at each of the water Intakes or
diversion points;                   diversion points;            n      diverslon points;-         An.r
-each sample to be analyzed for Annex3 -each sample to be analyzed for I2  -each sample to he analyzed for t-2
-1 day each month during construction;  -1 day each month during construction;
-sampleWmorning and afternoon;      -sample morning and afternoon;
-sampte at the first monitoring transect  -sample at tthe first monitoring transect
downriver from the construction area;    downriver from the construction area;
-sample at each of the water Intakes or  -sample at each ot the water, Intakes or
diversion points;,                  diversion points;
-each sample to be analyzed for lJst #2- _-each samole to be analy6ed 'f0r 82.
-every day for first 7 days of      -every day for first 7 days of      -every day for first 7 days of construction
construction and then 1 day per week;   construction and then i day per week;   and then I day per week;
-sample morning and afternoon       -sample morning and afternoon       -sample morning and afternoon
-sample at the first monitoring transect   -sample at the first monitoring transect   -sample at the first monitoring transect
downriver from the construction area;    downriver from the construction area;    downriver from the construction area;
-sample at each of the water intakes or  -sample at each of the water intakes or  -samplo at each of the water Intakes or
diversion points;                   diversion points,                   diversion points;
-each sample analyzed for DO and SS    -each sample analyzed for DO and SS   -etch sample analyzed for DO and SS
-1 day after completion of construction   -1 day after completion of construction   -1 week after cdmpletlon of constructlon
-sample morning and afternoon;     -sample morning and afternoon;       -sample mnorning and afternoon;
-sample at the first monitoring transect   -sample at the first monitoring transect  -sample at the first monitoring transect
downriver from the construction area;    downriver from the construction area;    downrWer from the construction area;
-sample at each of the water intakes or  -sample at each of the water Intakes or  -each sample to be analyzed for Aniit
diversion points;          Annex   diversion points;           An                                    8,2
-each sample to be analyzed for         -each sample to be analyzed for  __
-    -     _ __________ -.-.------..------ .  _- _
-3-12 tirnes Per yc,;               sampling program part of program    sampling program part of program.
:  -sample morning and afternoon    described under "Channels"'.         described under "Channels"
-sample at 8 monitoring transects (3
sampling sites across the channel;
_______   -samples to be analyzed for Annex _2 _    _L                                                                           ' _



AIR           Dust Inputs Insignificant compared to   -in position all week;         -in position all week;
other sources; civil works equipment    -4.6 dustfall jars positioned unfformly    -8 dustfall jars positioned-uniformly-
very simple.                        around the port at the site boundary;  around the site at boundary;
NO SAMPLING                         -analyze for quantity of dust collected    -analyze for quantity of dust collected
during week.        .              during week;
TSP: Inputs insignificant compared to   .1 day per week                 -1 day per week; once/day
other sources; civil works equipment    -4 sites to leeward of port based on  - 4 locations around the construction
very simple.                        average monthly wind direttion;     site;,
NO SAMPLING                         -samples analyzed for TSP           -samples analyzed for TSP'
NO6SO2: Inputs Insignificant compared   NO,SSO2: Inputs Insignificant compared   *1 day per month; once/day
to other sources; civil works equipment  to other sources; civil works equipment  - 4 locations around the construction
very simple,                        very simpte.                        site;
NO SAMPLING                         NO SAMPLING.                       - samples analyzed for NO S02
NOISE         -daily by project supervising staff at  -daily by project supervising staff at  -daily by project superising staff at
sites being reviewed;              sites being reviewed;               sites being reviewed;
-morning, afternoon and night where    -sample morning, afternoon and night   -sample along truck routes and at
possible but at least one of the three  where possible, but at least one of the    quarries;
times, particularly during blasting  three times.                       -sample morning, afternoon and night
events,                                                                where possible, but at least one of the
three times.
FISH          -2 times per year                   .2 tiMq peryear                     -2 timoa per ye*ar
-4 locatlons between Dayuandu and  -2 locatIons each within the urban   -1 location between 0.25 and 0.5 km
Zhuzhou;                            sections of Hengyang and Zhuzhou;   below Dayuandu;
-species and quantity present,     -species and quantity present;     - -specles and quantity present;
-analysis of four'species of carp (2 fish   -analysis of four species of carp (2 fish   -analysis of four specles of carp (2 fish
each) for Hg, Cd, As, Cr, Pb, Zn  _ each) for Hg, Cd, As, Cr, Pb, Zn,  _ eachO for Hg, Cd, As, Ctr Pb, Zn
..                                                                                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



OPERATIONS PHASE 
CHANNEL                              PORTS                           DAM/SHIPLOCK
WATER         -3-12 times per year                sampling program part of program    sampilng program part of program
-sample morning and afternoon       described under "Channels"          described under "Channels"
-sample.at 8 monitoring transects (3
sampling sites across the channel;
:____________ ,samples to be analyzed for List #1
AIR           Dust: Situation to improve or niot  -In position all week;              Dust Situation to Improve or not
change.                            -6 dustfall Jars positioned uniformly  chango.
NO SAMPLING                         around Baishi and Yongli Terminals  NO SAMPLING
(Zhuzhou);
-analyze for quantity of dust coltected
during week;
TSP: Situation to Improve or not   -1 day/ month; I time/day            TSP: Situation to improve or not
change,                            -4 locations around the facility;    change,
NO SAMPLING                         -samples analyzed for TSP           NO SAMPLING
NO,/SO2: Situaton to Improve or not  .1 day/ month; I time/day;         NOJSO02 Situation to Improve or not
chango.                             - 4 locations around the facility,  change,
NO SAMPLING                     _   samples analyzed for NO  SO,  2     NO SAMPLING
NOISE         -1 day! week;                       -1 dayAweek;                        Situatlon to Improve or not change,
-morning and afternoon;             -morning, afternoon, night;         NO SAMPLING
-5 stations at facility boundary;  -5 stations at facility boundary,
-annually 6% of ships ' be Inspected at  .0.5 hour duration each time.
three sites on ship (by Ships Insp. Adm)  ._._._i
FISH          -at Lieshoimu (below Dayuandu):     -l lc0tlon each within tho urban    -at fish ladder;
-2 tinies per year: specieS and     sections of Hengyang and Zhuzhou:   -2 tierns per year;oeies and
.   quantit.y present; and analysi of  -2 times per yearOfspees and     qUaDtity present;and analysi of
.   fonr specis of carp (2 fiEh ,eaob)  9Uantity pnt; and  nalysis of   tour spees ofW car (2 fih each)      ..i
for Hg. Cd. As3. Cr. Pb. Zn     , 10r flpecS3O car (2 fish eachS)       fOr Hg. Ca.! AJ!Cr. Pb., Zn     t; 
,~ ~ ~ ~~~g  Cd s.  u. P .                               . Z n      
'i    !}    .  



kanx S3-2
(recommended for construction period monitoring)
pH
BOD
Ibetroleum
NH3-N
Hg
Cd
Pb
7-n
Cr (+6)



APP*dltx4
-   Size of Dredged Materials from 23 Shoats in Xiangjiaang RivWeD#yuandu-ZixzizOu)
t~~aae  -   Nature oRIVerI       -                          
Bed                duax   dami   d99    dso    dIG
Ynaongzi Shoat        Sand&Pebbte 
_____anS          _ t43                                           35      1.3      teo   A i
Scad APebbIe       60              11      0.68    0.26
1.9     1.4    0.64  Shallow Waterway
G neXiwagzhouiS ol _     _  _  _  __   __                                            _  _  _  _  _
Yagi inynan shoal    Sand
Acizko Shoa          Pebble & Roc
6
7 ~~~~~n1*                        80~~~~~~s  0.1    so     19     0.26      I       N.F
F~antian Shoat       Pebble &Rock                                                Middte of Waterwy
ou64ShoaL       fRock  Pebble
1                          ~~~~    ~~~~~~~~3.?    0.36   D. 16
9   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I40                    <0.1   25.3      13.0  0.20   Middle of Waterway
YazuIangaa Shoat  ~Sand &Pebble                   0.1      471 0.34   0.'24ofWtwa
.T-+)Tl*                                   ~~~~~~~~~~26.11  118.5   0.235
bng"Shiwn shoaL        Sand & Pbb Le       10.15 IA   0.34   0.195   Mdl  fWtra
_Wamsbat' Shoal        Rock Sand Pebble_____________
12 1y*   Shoa          Sand Pebble & Rock
j cngsiuangug Shoal  Sand Pebbte & Rock- I
TmegiShoat     ISand a Pebble
1           ~~~~75.0    41.1   1.11   Near the Middtl3 of
isSizhou Shoat         Sand & Pebble        go      81 16.0    0.34   0. 15   Vate"
16 Bl"
Zhalolizzg Shoal         Rc
tla=ng Shoat            oc 
Sanmen Shoal         Pebble & Rock        200      0. 1   59.0   18.55   0.17  M(iddle of Waterway
If- ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~          40      <0.lj~~~~~~~~~~2  3.           Midl.f  aera
!9kongzhowt  IhaI      Sand &-Pebblte       40     <.1 0.82  10.68    0.40  kdt    fWtra
ikoShoaI             Sand,& Pebble                     10.90    0.54      0.10 ji~ddLe Of Waterway
Shoat       Sand & Pebbte    gao                67        43    17    M4iddle of Waterway
1    ~ ~ ~ 13           <.    12         2.3   0.56 Mddef
cos.i Shoat         Sar & Pebble                        0.53     0.28   0.1?



O.S~~  s. :W u-r~  ,  j0 8spi _e' : ' --
(%)s z & ,4r
-96   06  O8  (IL    I9    Oa (f tlZ
if   J I I LI
2:1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
4'i-llUl  Il!f.ll  I IIII i I Il4 l' I1 , 'LA-1 
f   Ci]      I   I I  I I                       - I  I-   I I   !
1~~~~if-    Ifil I__1
.7SI SD    I
> > 0X!W ^ W l i . . 1r 4 Xg=XFlpo0e
, wX g ' | i E g g g  ~~N
r£   -M   ffi'M  g    X XiS- 'UWOO
XXmm~~~~~~~~~~~ Esy a1



_   6 ,        1-  ,.5                   m  fv d       zq: 
tD - 0 0 0654)4x: 0 .0; . .- . - 0T;
Stfi   X   f 95    %        VS   EL  09 ~~~~~..........n;                 s-a-.       *w 
_~~~~~p _    ______-, i_                                   .                   ,,2
: '-: 't,.'''':    ____::X.-_.X.i W_ff:E'rU '        E                           '              ':'R''':~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~ "  ,'''I  L. '-'  
D'"                                        -                                 u''.t'; I~~Ita
' t  =.         b      =3                       m;;                         {      >     ,,L, 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l t    O il., '-i-                 !i    fi                              t
. :.i .-f    i  =  i  FM    -- X- s-M;= 3 .-t r~~I 1 AZ I     la _     I/S1 2
~~~~~~~~~~~~4                    11 : 1  i.= --- _il    11!I  W H  I  _ I  I  i   
I=.   T   '     ;- , V   !-T''g-
-_-~~ _ ._-, -.' '; ' ~~i lill'  *-
*   tl I I    I                                          r        w      i    
E ..- _ ,, .@off
-- - mlFiWF... ,-} M. X X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7



mn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
;  .4i  .
I,...4 U'                                                                                             I ,.1-4,.,..... .
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                             r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
717
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il
ok  1.0,                                                                  4    or                a2                    M4 iki 0.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 04  sor 0.01~~~'4..4*4  V



*;                   ,tut) l0W   aBt, U NM   '  't\{t4()   @  ?                                   a
.0 .~  i*e ;o~I*~ X<rep  >f¢e    s pw    VJ    ls   t  ,   s 8IV  or  
TO*Itff flv  rv      TTTpa       if 
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
~~~*~~~~~--;Y27tHtV  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~~~~i~~~~~biil  L  -   __    __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
UT~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~d t
- Y          .   .t                                                                         0 )
I   '1                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  *1
viII
_____                          I     I    ~         '1 1       L   .LLt
=11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1        ltl                                           1%~lA"



.T
-~~~  ....-.....                 ......
}~~ 5   ;                                                                                        -.
.  .   $   }  |  -       -           W  W--H~~~~~-.- H   =-.t 1_~--
: -~~t  _--    _  ii :   
414
-~                           L---:t8                     -0 -.                                  -
~~~~~~~~~~2. - i                                                            /I- .. ....            -  ;,............. -.. -.--
,, ____ii_ _--.  _'                                                                                                     ,.,'  
--~~~~~~~~ ~ .--'                                                 4---t- -------- _---.t J -   -l  .    - -. - .-   -._ .
7i ~    ~           ~           ~          ~          i
mt~~~T5r4   ~~~~~ Aj i
_ 1-                        '           ~               2  +f   -  -   §
~~~~t.-..    If                          I',       z ::.......~        -    r - :-           .;. .....................................   
L               ..   f    *2~~~ Tz t-.z       M-
-  = _- 1  -E-zS.7,
we~i&t Pecetagto         Of  Mimar Giainh ilk  a    .tii.S



v7IRipo f Cur2res fW Graim Sim fro Seamen Sh ,lo 
-'     I,*                        ,   -  ' '                   S
I~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~* ,_ _ _   ____-______
".;  ..-  2..      -s   z.±      _             _ -----.t         -=-...          --=-
Z .1~1
,~ ~--                        i -v-                 i-i----  -               SW,e, I,
;__-e.  -                - L -n    a   n 
-  *  -  -1 - - - - f} t - t - -- 55                                        9i0           W
<~~~~eih  pf=nt                            of- mim      . =m- :=S_ _ ,



Gradig D2aWg          of C-ves f. Gram    frm  Kho'I
,x~~~                            '            .1S-                       .r.F-<:'-F 
.' t 't;  't  '' '1 '1   '' E' t 1               Cit' 0
%'< '   ~~_   -4----_ 
;  ffi     . _         - S| ~  .                I  I-1                      r- ; .K ~~'
l   *                           .                                          g               .- .        _
27-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
io~t                                    ~9                            
IV ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-.                                    (atmSs



- -                     -; Grsdbg Diagm  'Of r   fo Grm  S f    Ceia  SbW
r   y_-7 r**--i7j  n-3   t0 ',2 4 |-
I          -         
*            7.F     -4P- |-rI ---t -
-~~ - f±                                   .il  z - t- - ;--
O~~~~~~ --;---4tz_ I  
, -, ,1s I ~~~~~- -._-_---;--,  ;
*                                                 -
=-=  .    .'rt =       -
s~~~~~~t-F                         i               _'             t- _I2_-_----  __________
I    ~ 1                   :1Li
_>_ _                                    j_
-j-  - ,=   ,        40 X'Qk- 70 *          9-           .        
,l_ m ;,, *._,_E_- it+. _.F.-, '-44 '-f                         4  
z.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
7. t s s--1; 4i : j_L.,  .a-!   -  -         .; vat*i  Sisi
-_  -    *                  -     .1         -,    , ,   _  ,  -X
g s = t-~~- .= -- -=--s-               t=        =    3 R Crtaj



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -                                 _______________S.             o j7
'   *.i  ?J-    /          4            J-*                * ti.+'t't  .*L 
I  -~              -~                                           - e  -   
-~~ ~ ~   -    . .                  I   E    - g-   
e         |   '_  -         .             I   '~' I         -
. [      -~                 I     \E;-;
.   t   ]_ __                 ___           _ .,*.                          -
-4- --i -- .- -- -- ____,.-
- ~,  "                         =                                                       - I--# - 
*   1-s -' -t-= rT.t-t±  =+_
I- ;L§^.W;i1                                                    ;;i.1-  '   *  I  -,.| ...i_ ____
t~   ~    J                     'C' .1  *_I-;-4st-  >-
6  |  !  I s- 1*.s*  I,< _ -_*  
Lizz_.        4- t '    1 4    - W   1 ;  S =   '- j -' 4   T -g '- 1-' p'Z
i  zi  §*  e-1;|e   SI- .  -jlt¢§l.!:-i*-.  .    *- I. .-i:  -   *X.- 
_~~ T                                               e iSg|_.          .  -    ;ti  ;*t1  *'*1*_        



-   -  -   i           g Appedbx 5
Appedix 6   Content Table of the Har.Mf.
Elaments in Silt on Sholas
______~~- ~  (Concnrto mgk
Name           Grain                        Contemt
Size-m
(nMM) 4 _b                           CdJ    g          Or       An
Gua .xiang-,   <0. 063   78.23   9.58    38608   Q         0. O5      L 3     3.2
hou       0. 063-0.126  6M 38    8. 66    M.63   0.06    0. 002      L .    30
Shoal         >0.126   68.78     9.02     389.28   0.07    0.0068     L 2      .0
Fentian          OM   164.38    17.08     33& 68 0O08.   0. Om        L 8     4.5
S.06$-25   9i S      IL 64     3(7.26   0.07    0.006o     L 4     3.6
>0.Q;5   97.17   IZ         #m 5" 76   Qog 09 0.00613    L4     3.8
Yanpengzi     <0.063   4.58      & 878    la58   0.06    0. Ph6       L 5     & 9
Shoal      0. 060.I25  48 88    7.65    103.88   0 06    0. 00n       L 4      3.7
t    >Q. 15 -, 5L 2S    10.77  UL21    0.07    0.07     L2      3.9
Sune,  .2         I _         __           __                  *.                   .
I benbo       <0. 063   7 8      10.34    13.8S   O. 0     a 7        2.1 573
Sllol      0. 06S-0.125   7388    &Is     .6         o7    O..i       L        4.7
>0.125    86.35    7 .6     16.28   0.07    0.68
1 -   T = =   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_______________   ________________   _______________ _  _ .___________________________ ._____________  .____________
t Chhou  t  <QOf0;3    76.8   2 f.23     M7    0. |    7   Q.       6.(3      4.8
tShodl      0. 06". 125  77.3     8.83    IM W261  0.07    Q06.        5.Q 0   4.l
}      I  ~~~>O.12 i  74.5     7.66   1 lM.6j  0.06    QC 06 1    4.5       & &7 1
icuOswi       <0.06    |6.6        4.23  |.0 30        8 06    0.W73    3.8     3.9
Shod       0.06".1ai25   s 3      5.7   1= 42   0.06    O.0O73         3 5     3. 2
>0.5       $ SLS     6. 12    u 7.8    0.06    0.0067     3.5     3.5



Appedix 6   Monitoring Equipment list for
the Environiment Monitoring
Statlons of Hengyang and Zhuzhou
LIST OF LABORATORY CAPABILITIES
ITEM_                             HUNAN PROV.             CHANGSHA                ZHUZHOU                  HENGYANG
GC            ,ocal (FID, ECO)('80);    Perkin Elmer HS-6 (cap.  Itp   ?°t(FX ,,NP;D  40CAQI(FIgZI 5
HP 5582 (FID, ErD,     column; FID, ECD, NPD) 1
MSD)(for March 95)     ('90);                      .                                -     'c   :
local (FlD, ECD,
TCD)Cmid'70's)
UV-VIS                            local (94)              local (92)               LoC     (896)             4
local ('84)            local ('86)               -t_eQQ (      q         .          i-i;p
.                    .                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~local -(mid 170's)   -..                .     ,;      . *
Fluoresence                       Hitachi MPF-4           lc4)   No  (omid _7,
Oil               ^                  -_ No     ___        Fofin (90)                 Loeze   (''? )         ¢         (tPK
AAS (for metals)                  Hitachi 180.80 (flame    Hitachi 8100           witai M4 ftot? HIcUiE
AA\S with auto- sampler; (computerized, flame   (j14c.,  A*s wi.4,?A                    s I
no furnace; about 30   and GFAA, 10+             e4- . a,p/er: Lfr'         t        AA'S W4'fl
metals)                 elements: auto. sarnpler   a.t o S               a,v   S14K per0        `
local (retired)         .                        .      kQo  .Zs
Hg Analyzer                       Rigaku (86)             local C84)                LQ   ('I                   cCao   CtI O 
local   )               ______         _                    2
ioP (for metals)                  No                      Beckman 20 channel    --
.____  ____                       ~simult. ('83)    __  _I_
Ion Chromatogrph                  Diaxnex (conductivity    local (cond. det.)'C92)
..''    '                                                                                               i)



ITEM                             tIHUNAN PROV.          CHANGS HA               ZHUZHOU UHENGYANG
Standard. Water Quality.      -
pH                               yes                    yes
BOD                              yes (1 Incubator).    .. yes (3 incubators)  ;
COD                              yes                    yes (14 simult.)        yye
bacteria                         yes.                   yes
specific Ion electrode           F, C                   F                        F, ci       -
hardnes~s                        yes                    yes
alkalinity                       yes                    yes                 '.
phenols                          yes                    yes (12 simult.)         )
cyanide                          yes                    yes (12 simult.)        y.. 
colour.                          yes                    yes                     AS
turbidity                        yes                    yes
CN                               yes                    yes                                              V1S 
SS                               yes                    yes
NJH3.N, N02-N, N03-N             yes                    yes                    -
others                           Shimadzu Sedimeter RS balances (0.0001):        bo..-CO) (o.oDo!)    i           ( 6.0Of)  )
1000; balances (0.0001  microscopes,           . ,                 .                   :v
g); several dissecting
and stereo Olympus             .
______mk rroscopes                                       ___-    _______
air sarniling eqp.
NOx                              10 systems (combined   MonitorLabs 840 24hr    9  y          f 'OL    .
with $02)              continuous + portable    .
systems
S02                                                     Monitor Labs 8.5
continuous + portable
TSP                              7 systems              numerous systems         S           s
Floating dust                    no                     numerous systems             /,O_
Nolse                            3 auto-r cording for 1 hr.; automatic sampler for 24  .&Ado ni ci  . sap/w  4sdb )tvc  Sa/,.r
_Jap. brand (91)       hr. 1-2 systems.          X4 Aj( t CoZ )              ./1 )l   o    ? e
'U
*                                                  '                                       '            - 1t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
A    Aix Nnitoring %cicn
~~~~~~~~,.,"aw-   w    N                               Ar =   v
lMinitor"i'gEE !    N.se  Mh itor ingtocatecn
yag Port                                      jL!A 
<W:t~~~~~~~~~~~~RA
Locations of Onvironmental
Mlnitoring Prints of the,                                       ,
H langyang Port



A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
iA~~~~~~~
k4  ~~ ~~~- |  ..,   --; -  
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
: fX                     X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A"s
r /< 1i=secd,n 2_ Dft gCst ( r fr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t tF
AU
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  4- A/l 
utl~    \~ Air M1dtor%  'ouai   1n  =
ill  hi    4*9   44 M M.*44  ,             a
Locations of Environmental
Monitoring Points  .         N
Of tht zh42hou Port !  Z  '



6~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rwn~ -.
'..    I,|
ck,  i    The Sectional Drawing of Watee
Qalt Montoring of  toritng
|  o -|  /    t i    4/       \        S~~~~~~ecti-on    .
~-  // A1                                M-     - 4
-              chev 3   ~~~~~The,Sectional Drawing of Water  ~~~-~-    -
Quality. Monitoring of the
-          Xs~~)~anqjianq (Hengyang2lhuzhiou)



