4   :;   :- '   _0;   ,  ' .-  '  '   ':  o 4
?8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- tL - ' ' 6- , t. A tI -  
V.
Summnary Report
of
Evaluation on Environmental Impacts of
Hunan Division of Comprehensive Inland
Waterway Projects under a Loan of
World Bank
Hunan University
18 May 1995
Translated by Hunan Translation Centr.
195 5X S g1



CNTENTS- -
1.  Intoduction                                            I
2.   The Aim, Importance and Descripto of the Project      2
2.1  The Necessity of tie Project                          2
2.2  The Mlaster Plan and the Main Technical Spec>flcations  6
3.   The Scope of the Environmental Evaluaion and
the Relevant Basic Data                               9
3.1  The Scope of the Environmental Ev.iIuation            9
3.2  The Descriptfon of the Environmeat                    9
4.   The Evaluation on Environmental Impacts
and the Prevention and Remdy Measures                13
4.1  The Evaluation on Enviromentat Impacts of
Dayuandu Hub Engineering and the Preventon
and Remedy Measures                                  13
4.2  The Evaluation on the Environment impacts
of the Pors Engineering and the Prevention
and Remedy Measures                                   21
4.3  The Evaluation on the Environmental Impacts
of te Wate Way Dredging Engineering and
the Prevention and Remedy Measures                    25
4.4  Protection of Cultural Relic28
4.5   The Impacts of Accident Leakage on the Environment   28
6.   Environment Monitoring                                29



5.1   The Targets of Monitoring                             29
5.2   The Contents and  ms of the Environment Monitoring    31
5.3   The Trafning for the staff of the Environmental MonitorIng  31
6.4   Monitoring Instits                                    32
6.    Land Requmison and Immgration Settlement of te Project  32
6.1   A Survey of the Lan Requistion and Scope of Immigration  33
62   Compensation standard of Land Requisto
and Plan for Setement of ImmIgratIon                  34
6.3   The Local Governmes participation In
and Conflrmatlon to the Land Requsiton
and Immigration Settlemen                             316
7.    Environment Protecion of the Project                  37
7.1   The Control Targets of the Evnironmental
Protection of the Project                             37
7.2   The Excutive Insitifttes of The
EnvironmentaJ Protection of the Project               33
7.3  The Stregy a-ad Cost of the Environmental
Protection in Constmction and Operation of the Project  39
8.   CCnciusion                                             44
9.   Appendix I Summary Table of
Evaluation on the Environment impacts
Appendix 2 Summery Table of the Adminisfraion and
Mangament of the Environment Protection



Appedix 3  Action Plan Table of the Emironment Monitorng
Appedix 4  Partice Gradftion of Silt on Shoals
Appedlx 6  Content Table of the Harnful
Elements in Silt on Sholas
Appedix 6  Monitoring Equipmene ist for
the Environnt Monitoring
Stations of Hengyang and Zhuzhou
Attached Drawing i    Locations of Environmental
Minitoring Points of the
Hengyang Port
Attached Drawing 2    Locatkons of Emironmental
Monitoring Points
of the Zhuzhou Port
Attached OrawIng 3   The Sectional Drawing of Water
Quality Monitoring of the
Xiangjiang (Hengyang-Zhuzhou)



I Instnuto
From Nc.21 to Dec. 3,1994, lnstruction delegation of World Bank for
evaluation on the em mentW impacts by the Xiangjiang Profect and the offiial
evaluatbon group for te Xagiang Pruject visited Hunan Province one after anthr
and held sx-day talk on tfe errronmenta protection matters of the Xiangjiarg
navgational onstruction engineeing wit the Xiarjiang Nagational Constuton
Devekopment Corporation and Hunan Univesty, the envionmental evuation
department The talks clarified some misunderstandings related to the documents
submittedi by the Office of the Xlangjiang Navigational Constnucton Project The
expers of the delegation aid the group gave their constuctie seggestons on the
enrimmental protection of the Xiangjiang navigatn  costuction. We in accordance
with the sunuasW of minutes of the two talks and with the Memorandun of Projecot
Evaluation has verified the origirnal editon of the Summery Report of the Evalutation on
the Environment for the XIangiang Narigatornal Construction Project and edited the
Report hereoL.



Z The Alm, Importance and Descrptien of the Project
2.1 The Necei of the Project
As an inland praince, the genral development stratey of hunan is to
open both the norh and souh gates, broaden the three passages, construct the fAe
zones and one corridor and speed up the development of the west Due to the
historical reans, te econnir; devebpment of pronwces along the Yangzi including
Hunan has to depend each other. The producue, metals and nonmetals, domastic coal,
buiding materials made by Hunan have had be trasported to the oter provinces alon
the Yangzi, The industrial ion ore mondite and petroleum, etc. needed by the conomic
development of Hunan hawe had to be transported from the east China and the Yangi
Valley year by year which mainly depend on the raituray and water transportations.
Hunan's coal output is large but can rot meet the requirement of itself,
most Industrial coking coal and power coal shall depend the suppliers outside Hunan
Province. The demand of coal is increasing greatfy with the development of power
industry and iron and steel indurtry. It is estimated that in 2000, about 2,400 tons of
coal shall be purchased at other provinces of which large portion will mainly depend the
Beijing-Guanyzhou RaiW, Hunan-Guizhou Raiway, Zhlcheng-Uuzhou Railway and
highways for its tranoportation and other -776Tons of coal shall be come from the water
ways. Besides, the iron ore modite also is a large-quatity cargo mainty to be transported
from other provinces even from Austia Bazil and korea. Only the Xiangtan Iron and
Steel Cornplex and the Lianyuan Iron and Steel Complex Located at the central area of
the Xiangjiang Valley will have 23 million tons of the iron one modite to be transported
from the outside of Hunan which with the so big freight volume can not be responde
only by the raihlays, even after the technical transformtion of the rail transportatko
which has increased the freight Noume of iron ore modite needed by Hunan to 50%.
2



The tenso on rad transpotation has caused the materiafs waiting for go out
Hunan arstocked that has become a big obstacle for the deveopmen of Hunan
economic consructon.
The Xlangfianq Valley coverng the hag of Hunan Praince is a very inportart
anea- A outstanding industrial eonomic corrkdor lining fwe hidustral cities, Heniyan
Zhuzhrij X(Jangtan, Ctxnxsha and Yueyang from Hengyang to Ch girgi has been
formed. The key railways around the econromi corTior are 8efjg-Guangtzh Raiway
from the south to the north, Zhejing-Jiangxi Raiway HunanGuizhou Raiway and
Hunan-Guizhou Rai"way from the east to the wast The highways are the national
highways 106 and 107 from the south to the north, 319 and 320 ftrm the east to the
wast. The rail trasporWaion to fte souttg resticed by te PWnshi hub, just cared
away 7.40 million tons of goods thrugh the hub in 1991 oniy handling 50%    the
freight volume needed; the rail transportaion to the east, restricted by the Lilling hub,
just carried ay 2.60 million tons of good through the hub in 1991, only handing 43%
of the freight volume needed; the rail tarasportion to the north, resricted by the PRDd
hub on the Beijing-Guangzhou Raiway, just carried in 80t% of th coal needed by
Hunan province. The tension on the passager trarsport are more serious. According to
the official puNbhed statistics on the fight transport density of Henyng-ZhuZhou
Rail section, the 10.75 million tons of reight Vume was increased from 53.92 mglion
tons in 1987 up to 64.67 milliorn tons in 1990, the annual average inreasig rate being
5.4%. However, the rail freight volume of Hengyang City at the corresPonding period
only increased 1.19 millson tons, the annual aveage incrsasing rate being 0.5% that
shows the new increased rail freight volumes were mainly refeected by the transit
freight and that on the local section was not obvious which can not satsfy the transport
requirement of the local economic development. The tension of transportabon on the
Zhepang-Jiangxi Railway is also as same as on the aboe metiboned raihays that
3



because of long-time block, the goods to be carried away to the east Chrina has been
greaW overstocked.
As the lwgest rver in Hunan, the Xlngiiang is a key branch of the Yangzi River
and also is a key inland water way determined by the state, which, enjoying great
advantages in its natural conditions, has been thie essential transpor artery from the
south to the nomrth of Hunan down the ages and plad a great important role in
Hfunans history and conmunicatons. Because Hunan sit back and watched te
developrnent of the morden transportation and invested less in navigational
construction, the naiwgatonal conditon is stUi poor oompared wth oter provinces, tatk
is rflected by the kwer-grade water ways, smailtonage ships, incompeted facifiies of
ports, low4evel management - those having deprved the competitive advantages and
rised fth freight greatly. The rge-tonage ships from the Yanxg to the central area of
the Xlangjiang Valley have been blocked so that the cargos stocked along the
Xlangiang could go no way to the outside by a reasonable price due to the semi-closed
water way over a long period of time. At pesent the great terion on the transport has
isneased the pressure on the highway transport and, however, the transport can not
bear by-pass transport task with a ager fright volume. A strategic dec~sion for
developing the Xlangjiang navigation was made up under the background by the
Hunan Provincial Peope's Govenment Trhe specfic requirements of the strategic
decision are as folluws: At the same time of speeding up corstrution of the industrial
economic corridor a"ong the Xangiang, construct a 439krn Idlotonage water way, build
a series of open-up ports and wharfs and close-rver enterpts and enterwharfs,
establish a rNe-to-ocean chargo fleet, consuct a comprehensive hub combining
pow  generatng and navigation. After the proects have been pu into opeation, the
xiangjiang will be replaced to a new role bearing a new historic mission to be the key
water way to the Yangz_ and oceans with its five land-and water-coordinate transport
close-fiver ports at Hengyang, Zhuzhou, Xangtan, Changsha and Yueyang and of its
4



foreign trade port at Chenglingji as its bases and the connection with the BeLing-
Guangzhou, Zhjiang-Jiangxi. Hunan-Guizhou, Hunan-Guangx> railways as its
collecting and distbuting lines so as to ease the tension of Hunan transportation and
promote the ecoomic development and further delopment of the Xiarnjiang Valley.
So it is necessary to devebp the Xiangpang navigation in view of tie econonic
pronotion of both Hunan and the Yangzi Valley.
The kIldtonage water way consrucfaon through the demonstrations shaft be
divided into two phases:
The first phase: Construct the Chenglfingji-Zhluzhou Reach, fts design
measurements of water way are: Min waterway depth 2.0m, min waterway widh SO-
-Orm, Min bevelling redius 72Cm with the 98% of navigable guarantee rate The
navigable measurements may be available by building regulation structures, dredging
the water way and explos -g reefs. The engineering has been started in 1989 and
completed in 1994.
The second phase: Construct the 1821m-Zhuzhou4Hengyang Reach. The area
from Chenglingji to Hengyang along the XlangJing s a whole economic belt and
complete transport division at the lower breaches of the )Xangjiang wfith the Zhuzhou-
Hengyany navigable reach as its essential part. Its present waterway depth is only 1.r3m
that guarantee 300-tonage ship na\igate through it in the whole year. After the
kilotonage waterway engineerng of the k'wer reach has be completed, the two reaches
would linked in no way that the ships with heary tonage could not go up to Hengyang
and the cargo at Hengyang could not be carried down with a reasonable freight price. It
was esimated the cost transport of a 300-tonage ship will be 35-40% higher than that
of a thousand-tonage ship that means the competitive ability woud be ;osted at all . So,
to extend the kiotonage water way is the need of further exploting the potential of the
Xiangjiang waterway, developing the water transportation, regulating the Hunan
transportation structure and diverting the freight volume of the raiways. It is very
S



important to well handle the Xangjiang second-phase navgational engineering and  -
fUrther develop the Xian9ang navigaton for constucton of the five zones and the
corridor and improvement of the "Irform and open-up to the oute" and economic
2.2 The Master Plan and the Main Technkal SpecEffcatfons.
2.2.1 The Master Plan
The research on the technical plan was started in 1987. The Research
on the Technicals of the Xiangjiang Navigational Development was listed as one of me
bxainstorm projects by the states ix? the Seventh five-year Plan. A brealdhrugh vas
achieved by the further comprehensive research on the base of the Plan for Main
stream of the Xiangjiang and, then, through the engineering feasibiity study by the
relevant design institute, a master plan of the pojert was confined.
Master Plan: Build a navigable hub at Dayuandu of the XiangJiang to
rises the water level and return the water to Hengyang so as to form a pooi water way
with idlotonage navigable standard, to generate power by--utilizing the retained water
and the hub, to adjust the flow of the lower reaches in the dry seasons. Regulate and
dredge the reach from Dayuandu to Zhuzhou to make it up to the ldlotonage standard
and linling with the thousand-tonage rnigable reach constructed at the first-phase
Xiangjiang project Build the thousand-tonage quay berths at the Hengyang Port and
the Zhuzhcu Port and the rnavigation beacons and telecommunications faciilties, etc.-
those malong the whole breach from Hengyang to Yueyang a main water way for the
thousend-tonage fleets . At the same time, build a hydro-power station on the
dayuandu Hub to incrase not only oca power supply but also the considerable
financial incomes that would reinorce the loan repayment ability of the project and
8



comulated funds for furher develnpmnent -f the waterway, that is, a sound oycle of
roing development
2.Z .2 Master arrangement of the hub and main technica specicatons of the design
of te prject which was chifed by the Hunan Prcvnctal inrstte of Communications
and particpated by the Hunan Provincial Institte of Water Conwvancy and Hydro-
pcwer the Hunan Provincal Power Institute and the Hunan Pronckal Intute of
Navigaional Engineeuing. The master plan of the project and the mnaster arrangement
of the hub hereof were bom through comparision, selection and successve
optimization on muth preplars by the instues mentoned abave suppoeted by mocdec
tests and passed the exp% examinafon organized by the State Communications
Ministiy
Dayuandu Hub
The engineering includes the damn, ship lock power station, fishpass, dam crest
bridge and power transform lines etc. The dam with 24 outlets is to be lcated between
the banks of the river. The net width of the flood discharge gate of each outet is 20m,
tf. oyerall length of the overflow cam 552m, the overall overflow width of the overflow
dam 480. A ship lock with its 180 X 23m2 lock chtamber is arranged at the bench
terace of the left bank along the foot of mountain with a desigh passing capacity 12
mirlion tfa, passing of two-parapushed fleel of kilotonage ships is available. A hydro-
power station with 4 set of generators 30MW for each, and total generaing capacity
120 MW and a fishpass will be at the light bankThe layout design of the master plan to
anrange the shiplock and the power station along the left bank and right bank will be
favourable to normal running. maintainng and management of the two dey functions.
Meanwhile the shiplock which be arranged staightly along the foot of the mountain that
ensure tte the leading channels of the upward and the downward also be straight-
7



linked and greatly improve fte navge flow coidition at the gate of the shiplock than  _
that to arrange it a"rn the bank of the nver. For the right bank of the dams0e is on a
concavec cur  riverbed,there is the mair, low c' the river, deeper and more earial
drainage than the bed of the left bank, it is not only tvurable kr deep-digging of the
1oundation of the pow  staion but also brng generating capat into fUll play. k : te
best choice among all preplan of hub arrangement
Port Enneeineer ng
8B idd three public hbiltonage berths in £Dirgia Bridge of Hengyarng with the
design handling capacity 85,000t/a; tws bulk cargo berths at the Baishi Port in
Zhuzhou Cty with the design handling capacity T00,0Otfa: one break-bulk berth at the
Yongi Port wth the design handling capacty 220,OOCta
Waterway Dredging EnginenL.
Dredge the 120km waterway from. Dauandu to Zhuzhou consisting 16 rflle
groups that intudes 23 places.
Navigable Marks Engineering
Set up I classification navigable ma*s in confiority wth the III classification of
waterway and establish waterway managing stations and marks-nainterance ships.
Communications Engineering
Set up 300 sets of programme-controled telephone, over-high-freuency
telephone and directAndireot diai .tsephone as ,eil as long-distance litte-cpacity
digital microwave teiephone for the adminstration\ and managemen+t of opera:n anid
maintenance of the hub, pots and navigable mar*s.
8



3 Scope of environmental evaluation and its related basic data
3.1 Scope of the environmental evaluation
The scope of envronmental impacts evaluation of the XlangoN) Dayuandu Hub
indudes the impact scope of reservoir backwater (from Tugutang, the upper reach,
90km away from the hub to the town of Henxshan County, the lower reach, 12kcm away
from the hub), the breach related with the outlets of the Leishui and the Zhershu,
branches Of te X  kiang, the floodretectve bets along the breach of Xiangjiang
thfat inudes Hengyang county, Hengnan County, 1-4engdong County, Hengfhan
County and the urban area of Hengyang City, and te enp.neening area of the project
Speaking speccy, the scope of the evaluatn on the enronmental impacts of
the Dayuandu Proect inciuding the reservoir area (60k12), engineering area (km2)
and embankment protecave belt along the banks of the Xiangjiang and the urban area
of Hengyang (327km2) is about 10O0km2 in total.
Considering the characteristics of impacts of ports engineering on environment.
An area abot 2km for each port area (injia Bridge and Baishi Port) has been decided
to be the scope of environmental evaluator, on ports engineenng.
The scope of evaluation on waterway dredging engineering is the 1 2Om-reach
to be dredged from Dayuandu Hub to Zhuzhou Port
3.2 Environmental Description
3.2.1 Environment around the reservoir
The area around the reservoir of Dayuandu Hub mainly includes the tvv
counties. Hengshan and Hengdong with a total area 3033km2.



The danisite is selected at the Joufiandeng riffle where 2.5kn away from upper
reach of the mouth of the Mihe is in asymrnetrical-case shape, 600m in width, 3.5m in
max depth, in dry seasos 460m in width, and belong to the low-hlly4and, 124.55m
high beirg the hill at Th left bank and I and l1 grade the stairland at the right bank The
stratum fitfwoogy is the Wuqiangxd metamcptic rack in te BarDd group of the forrner
Sinian systen and the quatewary stratum. The statum is old, but the break is in
development greatly.
Located at central subtropical zone, the reservir area is a continental wet
monsoon climate. Its annual temperature averages 160C - 180C. and its acccumulated
temperature of its daily average temperature that averages no less than 100C is
535500. Its annual evaporation capacity averages 700 - 1500mm
The main cutrent of the Xiangiiang rnajors in rains-suppling and the change of
the ma.n current is closely related to precipitation and the annual change greatty. The
flood mainly caused by storrn. The rain seasons begin in the early April and end at the
later June. The annual average water flow of the Hengshan Station cdose to the damsite
is reported 1650m3/s, the largest 18400m3/s, the lest 58.2m31s, the variety up to 316
times; the annual average main current fiow 45.4 billion m3, the largest 78.8 billion m3
and lest 23 billion m3, the change up to 3.42 times.
The Xlangjiang has been classified as a little-sands-carrying river. According to
statistics in 1953 - 1985, the annual sand-carrying capacity in main current at the reach
to be the damsite averages 0.I68kgfm3, its maxmum sand-carrying capacty in the site
tests is 1.73kg/m3rn the annual sand-discharge averages 288kg/s, its annual bed-oad
caliber 9.08 X 106, its etch.ng modulus is 135tMrn2. The sand-carrying capacity of the
suspention matters focuses on April - June each year, account for 72% of the annual
sand-carrying capacity.
10



The earth around the rsevoir is mainty of the red soil, the matrix ofthe earth is
mostly the sedentary product of the arenareous tock and the new os purple soil and
paddy soil. Theheaped-up earth rnostfy lies along ffe ier bank
The soid erosion is senous around the reservr. The erosion area reaches
980km2. account for 32% of the grss area of both counties. The surface sal ersion
valume is about 4.6 muIrKon-plus tla More serious on the tomwships and towns along
the Xiangjing account to 40% of the total.
Affeeded by the industrrai waste immson of the upper reaches, the reach oF the
reservr has more or less been polluted. The situation, hover, has be improved
obvously by the strict administration and control. The analysis based on the secton
monitonng result of at the damste and the upper reaches in 1990 shows that the water
quality has been up the standard for the. II class waters furction, but the capacities of
mercury and lead in the section of dayuandu are higher than that stipulated in the
standard occasionally.
The area around the reservor is a farm land where the natural vegetaton has
been damaged completely. The waste hills and mountains can been seen everywhere.
The left is mainly the manual planted trees a fev secondary forest The caverage
doesn't reach 20%. On the hilly land mostly is bush and grass. Over 80% farmers -are
absent from firewood.
The crops inc3ude 200-plus varieies, mainty rice, wheat, beens and oil seeds.
the xylophytas include 600-plus varieties, mainly chinafir, pine, camphor tree,
bamboo, tea-oil tree, tung tree, Chinese date and tangenne.
The wld animals include birds, frogs, butterflies. wild oxen, rw  deers, deers,
yelk w weasels, wkid boars and pnoeins; the domastic breedings inclu  pigs, cattles,
chickens and ducks.
11



The fishery resburces in the Xiangpiang system include 144 species in 26
fanilies and 11 ords, mainly carp, bkack carp, grass carp, s;lver carp, vaegated carp.
It has found no rear species there.
The 75km reach of the Xianjing' main flow frm Zhanghepu, Chawning, to the
Jiaohe Mouth at the upper of Fengyang is one of three ,'gest spawnirngs of the four
big domastic fishes in the Yangzi system. Their parent fish migrate every April - June
from the Yangzi and the Dongtng Lake up to there for breed reproduce. The roes flow
200km awy in the later 3 - 4 morths and hatch into fies, then go to the the Doniging
Lake and the Yangzi.
The population around thte reservoir is about o.99 million, of which farm
population is 0.914 miflion, account for 92% of the total; the population density is
3;3>2/2; the population of the 7 townships and tov.ns along the upper reach of
Dayuandu is 0.151 million. account for 15Y4% of the total of the two counties, the
population density is higher than the other places of the two counties, about 450/Am2,
most of the residents are of Han natonality.
The infecties in the area include vinus hepatitis, dysentery, exogenous febnle
disease, malaria. leptospira, struma, no bilhaiziasis case and other local diseases
being found.
3.2.2 Zhuzhou City and Hengyang City
Zhuzhou City includes five sub-oities and counties, Liling, Zhuzhou, Youxian,
Chaling, fuxdan with a total area 11420km2. Herigyang City irncludes seven sub-cities
and counties, Leyang, Hengyang, Hengdong, Changning, Qidong with a total area
15295km2- The total area of the two cites amounts to 25.2% of the Xiangjang Valley in
Hunar, Provnce and amounts to 12.6% of the total area of H-urnan ProMnce. According
to the staisics at the end of 1990, the population in the central area is 10.0067 million,
account for 16.4% of that of the province and the the gross agricultural and industrial
12



prduct is 21372 milrion yuaen at tie end of this centray, its grass rnion product,
ratona income, grass natonal agriultural and indUSra prodUct Vwll ht Up Rrnb 23.4
bdion, 17.8 bllion and 40.8 billion respectively. BecauSe the sub-dies and counties
under Hengyang City and Zhuzo City is the main bidustra base of te area, the
tension on the tansport is very harL The vlume of raid feight is 30% of the tOtal.
increasing 0.12%; thie volume of highway freight is 62%; the vokum o water freight
8%. Freight cost of highway is 6 - 8 trmes higher than ffat of ria transpod and water
transport So, it is necessaiy to upgrade the eisn  V classiftion watey of the
Hengyang reach to liI classifabon for llotonage fleets, for pefecting the tansport
system, for optirming the ranspoft structure and reducing tnanspOrt Cost
The volude of water freight was 3.09 minlion tons in 1990. It is estimated that
the volume of water freight will hit 8.58 milion tons and 11.15 million tons in 2010 and
2020 respectively.
4 The Evaluation on Enviromental Impacts and the Prevention and Renedy
MA%2res
4.1 The Evaluation on enviromental Impacts of Dayuandu Hub Engineering and
the prevention and remedy measures
4.1.1 Flood control and submergence
For reduceing submergence and bringing no impact on flood control of the
reservoir area, the selectn of normal water storage Leve and arrangement of the hub
haw been studied and demonstrated carefully in design.
13



The front f Gverflo has been widened. The hexght of te bottor sifts of the
overflow gate has been reduced as low as possible that almost be the same as the
atide of the origial niver bed so as to form a kl'e, opened gate dam when
disc,haring the flood to enu  the flood dihrge in rnatura flow shape. To compare
the water level of 20-year encountecl flood after the conpletio of the rservoir project
i th te leve eof natUral flood in samre Squence, te dammngq up just is O07-0.17m.
With a ltMe impacts on the food control and a lte losses of the submegence.
4.1.2 The Impact on the embankment of the reservoir by the rise of water level
A. Embankment strengthening
The flood prevention dyie of Hengyang Cty in the water dammed ar  was
designed for 50-year encounted flood and s in consruction. The embankment ot the
reservoir area is designed for 20-year encounted food. After the comnpleton of the
reservoir. the water lel of the reach of Helngyang City would be nsed 0.07m and
0. 1 7m at the front of the Dayuandu Dam by the 20-year encounted food compared with
that of the natural state. So,the impact of the water storage of the reservoir is very small
on the flood cotrol ability of the embankment of te two banks of the reach and may be
neglected if the thin dykes in a few sections have been reinforced and heightened
properly .Now, the flood-control dykes in the area under the jursdction of Hengyung
Municipal People's Government is being reinforoed and the average. 1 meter wil be
heightened to imprwe the flood prevenion ability of the dykes.
S. Protection ot the bank slopes
Due to the rise of the water level widening the water surface after the water has
been stored in the reservoir, the immersion time of the bendh terrace of the res.-vor
banks would be prolonged and the water erosion anM water cut be more serious. So. it
14



is necessarv to adopt the stone masonrv bank and the stoped bank cavered by grass
*              for the clf bank and loose-soil bank to reinrfore the dyke!s saty.
C. Transform of drainags culvert and gates
There are a few drainage cuherts and gates in the reservoir area. The prest
outlet base plates of them are lowso fthat they woud be subrmrged when th water
leve of the reservo rised tat wil affect the tir drainage fun    of detained water
and sewage. So,tey shal be -transfrmed and be equipped with needed facies
before the water storage of the resenr.
0. The preventon of water ling fbr land below the normal water level in the
embankmen'
There is 15,00Q plus chinese mu of land below the normal water lel in the
embankmnent calculated according to the measurernental drxng, of which thee is
6000-pius chinese mu belong to Hengshan County. accounting for 2% of the total
farmland of the count 90O chines mu to Hengdong County, ac=onting for 1.8% of
the total farmland of the county. These farm land mainty scatter around Longying Port
and tuangni Pot of Hengshan County. After the Water levl of the reservior is nsed,
the level of underground -water of those areas would be also rscd. Because the lands
mentioned above are at lwer place, the drainage of the waterlogging will becorme
difficut so as to affect te output of the crops. The dlferent wateulogging shall be
teated by different ay: For the large area of low-ying land, in light of the presert
pracce of the area, it shall adhere to the prncipal to pump the Tigher-water with a high
intack position, to pump the lo-water with a low iriteck positon ard tc sepeate inside
water and outside water of the embankrnent "and luiId a flood contrl channel through
which water getiere from rainarea flow into the reservoir, The water will be pum;ped
into the resevir from some cul tvated land in lrer area which canst be discharged by
15



tse'f and  ops program may. be changed and some present culvattng gand nay be
anxed into fshery fm-.
About all, Measures mntined abWe to be adopted are for keeping the kocal
PeOPeS IMng stndaJ on th basis of the befor
4.1.3 Protection of fshey resource
Afterthe .hub tias been compeTed, the.dam would be blocked te chanel of
fih mQgraon so that ffe parert population can not migraed to the upM   breoches
for spawning ftat wi .aect the fshery resources. For marainig the. economical
baiance of the main course of the X0angjiangprotecting the fishery resourcs, the hub,
in light of the successful praciceo  ofher area, wiltild the fishpass which will take
tle charactoriStics Of fsh nto onderati, for the spaning miration of fish to the
upeard- breachs and-ensure the fish to migrate from the Yaryaz througtt the -Oorigtig
lake to the XlarxjIwn&  upward reaches and ten back The esroir may be fuy
uteized by the fishe  departmet to develop the ishery farming.
4.1.4. Holum zonot and the threetvses -disposal
A. - Water Polfution: The incease-of the suspended soids density in -the water rased
in the hub engineerxng is mainly rised by the sands and stons processing. The waste
water shaf be setted in sedimentation ank at the consucion site, then discharged.
All the waste water fom the construction will not be pumped ouyt untl it cleaned
in sedimentation tank.
The.seccond-ccfferdammning phase -is adopted- in the -hub engineerin. It winl not
pollute the water for all the construction -are buit at the dryarand in the cofferdamming
phcmse.                                             \



S. Noises Proventon: The noises in the enne      area are maffly caused by re
engineeirin machiney- and the- proccessing, cf- sands and stones. The noises
happend irregularly, udely  u cessiy and vety srgly. Because the
errgin ng- area ;s located at the open and wikdress -paces more ffhn 300 metes
away from any vtllages, the Imacct wil- be vely small. ,Btfr eassng the otubIe of
noises on the staff membrs and Wokes-at the eoneen sitee C          sal
selec the 0mahineyi god performane, adjustthe operto  me properl, em. to
arange the work wth oud noises in the day tuie and make the noises as far as awa
rorm the IMvg quarters of the enginering area
C.  Te. handling of spoil minig: Proper cconsieon    S made by the design
department for toe decon and -the use of the spoll and offm   mnwing in te
engineeing, of which. 825.9km3 wll be consumed bv itself and the other 2791.1kM3
as te followng table:
Dis. buton of Spoil of Ow earUrork
Name d Spoil                  P                     -       sk
and Offscum
Spots
Mihe Railway            Lower reach of the right bank of dam
staton                                               114
Datongkan               Upper reach of the right bank of damn  &
Jinghtma Port           Upper ceach of the right bank of danr  26.17
Linzichong              Upper reach, SOOm from the left
bank at dam                   118.94
17



44eihechong             Lower reach. 1200rn from the M-t
bank of dam                   40
ulhdpAyua               Lower reich 200sn from the let
bank ot dam                   2'
~XIajuyusn              Lor  reach, 2000m frrn tie left
bank ofdam                    25
HujTszhan Reservoir     Lower reach, 2m  mfrom the dam  5
xrnwuwan                Upper reach, lOOrn from fte dam  20
'iaojiakxig             Upper reach, 400mn from the dam.    7
The spoil of the eathwork mainly -use to ffl the bw-yinq land close to the hub
engineeing site and as the road base mater  or return to the farmland that about
2000 mu of nw-lng lan wvA be trarnfomed into cutivat  land.
3. Air pollsGon: the air pollution-over-te ergineering area is mainly caused by the tail
gas dicharge of the engierring machinery with the diesel as ther power, eathvmirk,
and filling engieering. Butthe engineering sites are open places with a distance to any
velliges and a natural damp condition, te air polution wil form nio socl effects.
HowNver because, the eartwoik should strip the surface. ofthe soml and destry the
vegetative cover so as to .cause the erosion of.soil and loss of water arnd hurm te
natural lardscape, the contractor(s) shall plant trees and lay turf on fthe so    after the
engineerings have been completed to prevent the loss of water and erosion of soil and
to beafy the environment The poaier material shall not be pilled in the open air.
18



4.1.6 The environmental protcto Of the stone pit.
Ali thie stone mateal needed by te engieeng    be uaed at fte ston
pits close tD th  enginerwig ste to nee. the reqeets of stone quity. The
eimronmetl potecton wdi be bore by, the omwe of sone pit poded by the local
go9rments and te local enro        t  protection  depaitiert to prevert the
vegetativ coe destried and the loss of water and ffe eros    of soiL The I  um
wok shouid be carried out for the vegetave ce and landscape ater stone mig.
4.1.6 The environmental impacts of tanspor        of cons lon iateas
The major  teials rneeded in the Dayuandu Hub engnexng are as *omws:
The needed Materials In the Hub Engineerwn
Names of Materials   Quantt         Suppier            ramnsport
Steel             9000t       Xlangtan Steels Woks,    Railway and
LianyuanSlssWorks       highway
Cement            0155mt      Xlangxia  Cement WorYs,
Donj;iang CementWofks    Highway
Pebbles           0.82        The pits ownem at the
milhion    kow  each, 6km from
m3         othe Hub                  Watefway
Umbe               0,0n       The foresty stanorz 2t
the upper reach of the Hub    Waterway
Equipment                                              Waterway,
raiWay



Brisk and ime                The etwnship enr;ses    H%Wa
on the tro banks       in h  dtance
Stoe                         Sbotoe pits close to te Hub  -ighwkay
minshocdisga
The pebbles needed vil care by waterwAy, wtich is a material in largest
quantt needed by te egnerg.
The 155,000 tons of cernent wi caried by hghways; which is a materi
needed by the erganeerng wth the lagest vokume of hihWa  reight that is mainly
tranport by the cosed-tank truc-to prenvet the erwomrU pollution and reduce
the fregit cost The average taffc volure wilq be 21 trcks if using the lo-tortage tank
uck in Me engIneenng. Taking the 2-im  unbalace and the trus for carying othe-
matenals ito considration, the da.y average wil rno be over 50 ruxd.
The roads closed to the Hub will be wied and the concrete or pitch layers wil
be added on them for reductng dust an impn he transport eflictence.
Becase the highway to fte egIneering st lays-at-tfe widness co  to no
senstve ermromenta points such as importat insttts and schoofs te noises
pollution will be easy to cont.
It. is necessary to monitor the dust and noises ziong the highways during te
cornstructin
4.1.7 The public hygiene and heat plan
The damp ecotope around the eservoir due to the water surface of the reservoir
is wxdened is favourabe to mosqutoe and flies' breeding; the rise of the vater lve
would forc the fmuses to migrated so that to encrease the morbiditv of the refevant
infectokns. Because the staff members and workers of the engineering sits are
20



conoenrated rely, tile pubLc hygee has direct rehtonship wit health of therm
So it is ne7essary to launch ways as foliows:
a. Wetl sette te cka wrk of #te bed of mserevir and, when do t, bum the
corpwse of ankals died of anthracnose and the coin. ReroVg-awy as frbidden.
IL  Select the clean drkwaer sources and  vte    the nects from
spreading by water.
c. Strengthen the administration of the hygene in the engineeing areas,
collectiNg, transibring and treating the waste. The-diect discharge of tfe waste water
and feces into the rie is forbidden.
After the above mentioned measures have been camed out, the set-up of the
reservoir will bring no impact on te public health and the hygene plan.
4.1t8 The safety of navijation during We engineeng phases
The Hub erxgaefeing phase, espeia y theg phase, A vAl be
arranged that the lef bed for dvso and -meanwhile for the temperazy water way.
The ineased cunret speed -will- bring the unsaet factrs to the navigato  So,
besides to drawing up ffhe temperary naviation plan in the design phse. the
navigatin adrnnistation shall be reinforced, the signs of navkjation shall be perfeoty
set up. more take-care stations shall be established for the effectie rvigable
guidance.
42   The Evalatison on tte Environment lmpacts- oftbe Ports Engtnewing and
the Preventbon and Remedy Mexsures
21



4.2.1 The impactof pos watrwod  at paal floodas on flood dlsctrge
t has been taken irto condeaton in the desigpn-phs  and careful
demonstration, Mas bee nmade and approved by the competent authorty of tne floodi
caals that proved the flood ctrol standard at Me coes fifl not be affected
4.22 The po4s errginemgng wvl notosuse such impacts as sa-e as the tormal tupact-
of te municipal engineenng becae it is rust in a salff sczfe with a short time limit
The ervironment impacts of engineeng are rmnly rAected by the watar poluton
andJ air polution caused by te waste water and dust of engeering in onstructiom
period.
4221 Air Pollution In the Port Engtneerlng
Baishi Port of Zhuzhou is a coal wharf and fhf are RSie phosphorus mines
1oaded and unkaed at Dingjia Bridge of Hengyang, so the dW. caused during loadng
and unloading and air storage period wiil exceed  U classiftion standatd of
atnmospher The effecti1e water-spray device shall be irtled. The -voume of loating
coal dust will reduc*s 80% if water contert of coal is kept abve 6% in accordance with
the experiences at hoaie and abrad The pi-_sphorus mhies will not nave zedous
effiect on environnent due to its big. grain size and its stog cohesive strength. It was
calculate that the toNkness of landed mine dust at the edge of port area vill be less
than that of il classificaton standerd of atmosphere quafty when the equai speed of
windc i- 2mls and te watpx ontert of muies is 2% and the stability of- atmosphere is- i
:,Iassifcaticn. When the wind speed increases, the standard wilt be .eeded. So the
p,Nrt area s'iA'l be watered at time according to the wind speed ard panted- trees
keeping the sand in check and controhing the dust and beautifying envwronment.
22



4.2.22 Wat pollutlkn by POrts engetIng
Betwee the intae cf the sis for three wharfs to be built at the Hera  Port
and the Zhuzhou Port and the dnrk water are in confornity with the State relevkt
stpultons. Hoe, the lakage of the patia bulk-cargo ui a re quantfty, waste of
the ships and the doastic rsdented quartes, if dicagd wnt the Xngag
directty, wukld affect the water qualy in the wates where th port located. So. the
relevant pretecton measures shall be camed out.
A. Impact of coal and phosporus rokis on watr quality
The water quaty will be affected by coal and phosphoru  oCks spit and
washed out by rain durng loading and unoading and staorage period. So, we Should
reorce administrali  and clean and recycle Joe goods ri tme Bedes fortiddng
cabin cleaning in the port area, We plan to canry out the sewage work and lead the
sewage fromdrainage ditch to sedikmetation tank The dredge Wil be Colected and the
water purfied be reused.
B. Influence on waW qualty caused by shipping waste
The mkssion of oxiy waste water of ships will influence  e water quality of the
port area, especially in the sensitive water area of the first grade protectoin area for
drink water in the ower reaca The Chinese government and Hunan Provincial
Govemment attaches great mnportance to of pollubon and decides to adopt the effective
measures to contro stictly the pollution In accordance with the Chinese Inspecton
Reguations of Falities on Ships and Seas' prornulgated by the No-109 Order of State
Council of Republic of China and the Stucture and Equipment Specification of
Polltibon Preventn on Rwverboats" Stpulated by China National Shipping Inspetion
Bureau, alt the peratbional ships shall be equipped wih oi,-water sepewrator emissio
control system or waste oil and water cubin (cubide) . Ali the shipping water shall be
23



recycled in Hengyang Port and. Zhuzhou Port for central treatmet The Emnisio
Stndard (GB 3552-83) of Pollufig Matter of Ships pranugated by relev 
deparTet of Ste ha incded the            on the other wastes dschargedl bl
ships as follws:
An pascs, ftable maters waste fod and other wstes s    not be
disda    dicy into ies.
Any avatories of arny ships shall not connected with the water surface.
Any wastes of any ships shall be colected and transfered to the waste stations
on banks for btatmert
CG  Public Hygienc Adminstatn  of the port
Rainforce the hygiee admintation in Mte work area and iMng area by port
admirutation department The domestic. seNage shall be drained to the ser of the
oiCy by by-pass flow system  The house rfuse shal be dealt with treatrent system of
the city so as to pvet the bad influence on water quality.
4.23 Noises
The noises of the port are mainy caused by mechanical operation. the eginal
equal noise value is 50-SOdb(A) in a foiast At the places fity metes far away from te
opeaion area, the norse value is 50-60(A), which is wuder the rnainal stadard ao
eMvonmentaf noise that pides the noise shall be less tan 55-65dB(A) n the
indusra area and the sipulatn on te design specication of the port and hav no
serous imoacts on the environment
Dirigia Bridge aea of Hengyang PWo is ocated n the suburb which is not the
esidents' crathenng area. The old houses area around Baish! Port of Zhuzhou. Iocated
at the municipal taraorm area is tken as land of port construction. The are no arge
scale municipal constrution project in the two above mentoned areas.
24



The existing sand and stone wharf wtfl be mwved out of the certer of city and the
o-hndWr  c;pacity wi reduce from abou 1 000 to 420kt Om to te constuct
of Yongb ares of Zhuzhou Port With the trarm of Ilincion of porL rducton of the
cargo-hand n capaciy ad the npronent of loadirn process, the envSnmta
quality ofthe port wil be improved obiously. The max noise in the center of port wdi be
educed from 91 dB(A) to 85dB(A). The transport    of the port to the outside will be
eased and the pressure on the main road of the City ilti be moderted. The colecti
and distibutrg tansport condiions of anower t  port ares has been connted with
the municipal conruction plan. The constucion of the port wil be fnmished at the
samne time with the completion of the first-grade nng rad of Hengyang City and the
seconS-grade steet along the rver of Zhuzhou Cty wlt be imprvied greaty.
43   The Evaluation on the Environmentl Impacts of the Watr Way Dredging
Engineering and the Prevention and Remedy Measures
The dredging work consists of dredging and reed explosion wvo-k in twent three
shoals of the 120km reach from Dayuandu to Zhuzhou. and dredging work of 8a¢i
Port and Yongii Port in Zhuzhou, with total dredging capacity of 823.5km, among
which, dredging capacity on shoal is 8104rn3. dredgin capacity at Baishi port 10km3
(mainly reef eplosion work) and dredging capacity at Yongli port 3.5km3.
World Bank gves the speoial attentin, on te envronmental problem caused by
the corstuction of dredging work and removaJ of dredgirg silt and sets the follown
clemands:
a. Set up the heavy curtains for preventon of silt and adopt the dredginr
equipmnt with little turbulence on sift during the engineering of dredging work in the
dry season so as to reduce the short-term turbidity in the dredging area as possible.
25



b. -Make te pandc and chemi anarysis to thie sdt prior to the umbd acton 
so as to lower the natural and /or man-made poisonous substes of sit into water.
On the bas  of analys  the latent problem will be found and some measures will be
adopted to by best to reduce th silt suspended again in fis area.
c. Evaluate properly on the spoD plam the one which has Jest influle on the
man resident area wll be sekected. If taking the nfluence on the groundwater. raiwash
and land using caused by spod ground wito considration in some occasion, te the
ban-ful waste shall be colected in a stuctue which is used to prevent the poio
substance from perating into the water-beanng satm as possible. soe harmless
silt ma be reused, but the proposal that uses those silt to backii the marsh land is not
regarded as the best wvay to sohe the environmental problem
The constructon of dredging work shall adop the releen measures to reduce
or eliminate the latent influence on the ernronmer#t
4.3.1 The influence on the water quality caused by dredging work
The stirring of botto. silt in te dredging of shoai will cause the inceasi of the
trubling in the river. and harmful substance suspended again. In accordance with te
physic- chemical anatysis (he detals see Appendix 4 and 5) of substance dredged in
two typicaf shoals- the river bed of reach is mainly composed of pebbles, the content of
poisonous substance is lower, besides this, the polluton on the water, especially on the
dnnk water caused by dredging work is limited. We will supply abundant infonraton in
the bid invtato documents to ask the contraor(s) to select the proper dredging
equipments andi optimized operation process. even set up the heavy curtains for silt
prevention if necessary so as to reduce the short-term toubidity. We will also monitor
the water quality at the lower reaches in the constructon of dredgig work.
26



4.32 The environmental impacts caused by spoil of the dredging workc
The content of harmfUl substance in the spoi of shoal dredging work is lover in
accordance wit the aralys in att d table. The spol area of shoal dredgirg work
wilt be desgned on the bass of succefl  Chinese river regulatig experience o
imprve the flaw condition n te shoal and gain regulatng effect The silt dredged wit
be used for filling the embanrment and farmland, bocng up the tbury, rase the
border of bte nver and fIIimg and raaMng the infavourable deep pool. The spoil of the
port mainly the rock, wdl be used as backI material for land of the port
4.3.3 Influence on the fish caused -by the dredging work
The analyi made by Hurnan Prmncial Environmental Montoring Center and
Changsha Municipal Environmentaz Monitoring Station in 1992 shows tat the harrmful
susance in the fishbodv is under the international and Cnina standard on food hygiene.
In accordance with the analyis of aboe clause 3.3.1 the content of heavy enti-s in
the silt of rier bed is ve low and the dredging work will not cause serious pollution on
the water quality. Besides this, the shoals to be dredgged are not the place for fish
dewellang. So the dredging and reef explosion wn3l not be -njunous to fish and increase
the poionous substance in the fish body.
4.3.4 Safety Rules on Reef Explosion
The explsion work shall be appoved by the navigational administration
departient and the naviraticnal notice vnI be released in advance. The contractor(s)
will cculate the explosion rang, take the effectve safety measures, stipulate the
e3plosion time, set up the clear signs and warning lines and evacuate the personnel
and ships in time and make the complete anrd carefull safety inspection in the
explosion-.
27



44 Historcal Ralic Protection
The arniet buidings scattered in fity one phacm and historical me ize
buildin announced by Hunan Prvca Government in 1983 is nort inied in
engineering range. Dayuandu is A rivw-channel-type resenrir. Nto unmround reric is
discovered by surveying and investgatn in the engineenng rang. If posible. it as
necessy to report to the relic admistation department and cary out uent
protect 
4.5 Influence on the environment cause by lakage In acident
The leakg of dangeros goods in the accdent of oading and transpoatio
will have a sencus efect on water quaity and atosphere. So we should carry out
actvly te poiW of putting preventon fis and tal(ng the specal precautons to meet
an urgent need so as to reduce the bad influence on the environment to the least It the
accidents occur.
Strengthe the safety eduodbon on the personnel for lading and transpoatbon,
strictly exeute 'The Temporary Prvison of Inspection Ship Condtions fior Dangwos
Goods Loading " and " Supervsion and Administraton Rules on Loading of Dangerous
Goods in Ship" promulgated by Communication Ministry of P.R China and oter similar
regulations.
ff the leakage occues in an accident, all the emergency measures shall be
adopted to prevent the pollution frm speading. At the same time, the person at the
accoident site shoulid report to local navigatonal supervision department so as to
conne;t with envronmental protectior and and public security depertment-to handle
the accident immediately and effectrvely.
28



The envirornental impacts and its fosng  tors corterts~ methods and
applicabe standards see appendic 1. The prevention and remedy mease and
ecutive body of enromental managerme
. EnMronmel 1onitring
5.1 Montoring Targ.fs
5.1.1 Water quality
The purpse of the water quality monitoring is to monitor and ften control the
pollubon influence on the water of the Xlan0an caused by engineering so as to keep
the water of the Xiangjiang in conformity wih the water quality furnctora dustit
stanrd. So, the Dayuandu hydro complex proc wil major in the corol ard
treatmentLof wate water from the aggregate pncessing in the consbucon. Wi the
domestic water plant provided 1 km downsteam, Hengyarg and Zhuzhou ports beJong
to the drink water protection area It is vey improtant to take measures for water quality
protection in the construction especially in the operation periods through monitoring.
The water quality monitoring is mainly to monitor the temporay turbidity and
liquidate of heay metal in the dredgirng area during the construction of dreding work
and influence on water qualty caused by shipping waste during the opeation period so
as to keep the water in dredging reacnes, especily the dnnk water in corlormity with
Chinese standard of water quality.
6.1.2 Air Montorin
29



The ar montonng is irtended to  nxect the degree of nfunence on
atnosptwe caused by the consUucto  and operato  of the projec after various
protection measures here been taken according to the reqrwement of atnosphere
quality in differet dist Aniospheno nitoring for the prject is main perfrmed in
the conrstuction period of Dayuandu Hub and the operation perd of Hengyang and
Zhuzhou ports, adopting class 11 standard of toal suspended particle
(rSR=0.03mglrn3) specified in the atmosphere envronmiental quatly standend as
control standard.
54.13 Nkses Monitong
In accordance wth the anaysis and forecast of ervronmental evalution eport
the noises mainty caused by the operton of machinery during the constructio and
operation periods iM{I not eceed 'imft Value of Noise in Construction Site' and the
stndard for industry centralized area from "Ambient Noises standad for Cities'
(GB3096-82)- The mechnical nois at the ports have been cotrolled to conrm wh
the port design standard. Only the influence on te construction site and operatonal
personnel caused by the noses will be conseed in noise control.
Envirnmental quaity standard for surface water, atmphere envirm ntal
qualt standed and ambient noises standard for cites are extracted as foUlows:
6.1.4 Fish Resource Monitoring
Thze effectiveness of fish-way engineenng and the inluonce of reservir on
spawning area will be confrmned through the invistigation on variety and quantity of fish.
Coordinate with various environmental protection units to strengthen the
monitoring of harmful substance in fish body.
30



5.2 Environmental Monitoring Contents and Items:
In order to inrvisigate the influence on the environment caused by wharf
loading, shipping and construction and operation of  Dayuandu hydro hub and
waterway dredig woii the monitonng work shal include the monitorig of water
quality, atmosphere quality, noises and fish resources in the range of engineering
concemed in different period.
The water quality monitoring involves the inspection of content on
DO.BOD,COD,SS, PH, volafic phenol, nitrides, Hg, Cd, Cr, Pb, Cu, Zn, oil, ammonia,
nitrogen and colibacillus, etc.
The atmosphere monitoring items mainly include the. inspection of content on
suspended particle, falling dust, SO2 and NOx, the noises monitoring majors in the
inspection of noise intensity in the construction sites and the residence close to the
highway connected with the constructon sites; the fish monitoring magors in the
inspection of variety and quantity of fish and analysis of harmful substance content in
fish body, (The details see attached table 2-5)
5.3 Training of Environmental Protection Personnel
The environmental monitoring for the project in the construction and operation
periods will be carried out by the envnromental protection departnents of cities
(counties) along the river, which are qualified for environment monitoring at these
departments is required. The personnel of the environmental protection units under
the Xiangjiang Navigational Construction Corporation will attend the medium and short
term training programrnme and on-the-spot invistgation. Of which, 8 peoples wil be
trained in China and 5 in foreign counties.
31



6.4 Monitoring Orgas 
The specl environment monitoring staton  have been setablhd in
Hfengyang, l-engshan, Henglong, Zhuzhou (including Zhuzhou County). which are
scattered aong 182km reach from HeerWang City to Zhuzhou City The staorr of
Henng and Zhuzhou cies are evaluated as natoal class III stations, which have
been wei equipped and reinfced by qualified envronmwnt monitorng engineers, the
enrironment mnonitoing equipments list and the details of monitoring items of two
stations see atachment 6 ), the stations in the other four countie are national class IV
staffons. all of which thave qualificaton and capacity for the nom(al envronment
monitoring. At present; the water quality of rver and environmental quality in oher
sesentive point of environment have been controlled according to the monitoring results
of all above mentioned stations from monitoring sectons and points in all year. Water
qualit inspection system at three levels (shiftpfant company )ts been set up in water
plants along the mier, so as to keep the water quality in conmity with the Chinese
standard Coordirnaing wit other four environnental protection statsons, Hengyang and
Zhuzhou environment monitoring stations, entrusted by the Xiangjiang Navigatonal
Construction and Development Co. Ltd will be responsible for the environment
monitoring work of the project. The monitoring points and monitoring frequency will be
increased in accordance with the monitoring results and actual situation of the project
so as to meet the requirement of environment monitonng.
6.    Land Requsitkon and Immigration Settlement of the Projec
According to the character f job ste and engineering, the plan of led
requition and setement of migrants will focus on the following areas: the damsite
32



area, area suberged in fte reser wharfs wit l'tonage bert of FengyN Port
wharf wth kiotonage berft of Zhuzhou Port Now, we demonstrate m details:
6.1   A Surey of the Land Requisition and Scope of lmmlgras n
6.1.1 Dayuandu damnst area:
The Mand taken ower for use includes cutwated land 493.4 mu, garden area 37.4
mu, forest kand 128.4 mu, aog  which, econmnic forest 110.6 mu, timber forest
1 7.8mu, homestead 25.5 mu. which are used for the consttn of shipocRk A small
village, wth 77 househokds, 367 persons wil be mved out The old houses with total
floorsoace 17,019m2(itincluding sundry houses 2, 543m2 ) will be pulled down.
6.1.2 The area submerged In the reservoir:
The area submerged in the resevoir includes the amland wiout harvest
guarantee and nion:gate famrland near the dyke amounted to 355.5 mu in total. The-
migrants concemed in this area are only 3 households, 16 persons, space of house
pulled down 804 mr2
6.1.3 Wharfs areas with kilotonage brths In two ports:
Ding,jaqiao wharf area of Hegyra  Port: take over 822 mu land for use; move
out 3 households, 48 persons; pull down the house wth total Uoorspaoe 804 m2.
Yongli wharf and Baishi wharf areas of Zhuzhou Port: take over 35.84 mu land
for use: move out 92 households, 279 persons; pull down the houses with total
floorspace 11, 576 m2. (this work will be combined wih the city converting plan)
Synthesize abovementioned data, the total land to be required is 1,286.74 mu,
rasidents to be moned ot A 79 househokds, 710 persons, floorspace of houses pulled
down 31,779 m2.
33



6.2    Compensaffon standrd of Lan RequisiMons and Plan for Sefttement of -
Immigraton
6.271 Compenafon stadard of land requisitio and s_ttlement
A. Land requsMton fees:
In accordance with 1Hurtan Provincril Renforment Rules for Land
Adminion", land requisn  fees are composed of young cps compensation tees,
land cornpensation fees and settement compensation fees:
Young crops compensation fees = annual output value of land required X I
Land compensation fees = annual output vWlue of land required X 3
Settlemernt comperntion fees = annual oup  value of land required X 2 X
number of agricultural populaton I q;iantry of land
S. Compensatlon fees ior pulling down the touses and movement
it *Il be determined on the basis of " Total Expenses for Rebuilding the House".
Step and mefhods:
*                 )Deciding the 'total rebuilding e3erses" of house pulled down(yuaWr2)
Decidtng the rate of depreciation of rate house pulled down (%)
Deciding the 'basic price of net valu& of the house pulled down(yuanlm2)
BasL- price of net value  total expenses for rebudding X rate of depreciation for
the house
34



C. Compenstion standard for lectric power, post, wire poles and otfer
aiddifonal faciJitis
It vill be dckded according to te budget plan fxmuated by the reeavent
deparbtrets in cage or he consubton results on the basis of on4the-3o
irne-trgation.
69 = SeMairsent plan of migrats:
A  The*re ae -,eventy housekods, three hundred and eighty thr  pesn, who
are rrinly centralized in Yonghe Vdilage and engaged in agriculture soondary and third
industries, in Dayuandu Hub area Accordingt o a plan of kocal govewmsmt Yorghe
Townr with the scale for eight thousand people at present and then enlarged ior thirty
thousand people in the future will be established near the place to be the lMng area of
the staff members and workers of the Hub engineering located at the left bank of the
Hub. The residents of Yonghe Viflage will be moved to Yonghe Town gradually. The
people who are engaged in the agriculture on the land to be aquired wi(l be rearranged
to be (a) farmeas mainly cultNiting rice (b) gardeners raising vegetables and fishery
farmers, (c) building workers, (d) catering taders and others in trzvelling servie and
retail business, (e) handraft makers.
The local govenments wil work out the detaie plan for settlement according to
te number of migrants and the loal resoures condifion. There are seventy fve people
in Hengdong County to be settled, among whom, fourty two people will be alloted the
cutivate iand with the same area and quality as the old one for continuous frrming
work the other 33 people wvll be engaged in secondary and third industries. there are
five hundred and seventeen people in Hengdong County to be settled, among whom,
si4een people will still go in for agricutural work four huncred and twenty-seven people
w.ll be engaged in secondary ard third industies, seventy four people wil be engaged
in fishery farming; there are fity nine people in Mayuankong, Hengnan county, only nine
35



standards for submerged land and approved the land acquisition standads as well a
the plan of compensatio for submerged land and settement of migrants furnshei by
the design instittes at the same time, all the representatives said they would contact
the whole work for epropiaton of land and moment of rsuidet, pnvide tre
peeental term  to ensure the success of the poect the details see the Collection of
Cofimed Documents of the Projec
The government of Hengshan County delivere  a detailed plan for th,
settlement of migrants in Dayuandu Hub engineeinng area to the project offioe on
March 18: 1993. It was planed that Yonghe Ta#n which would intergate agriculture,
industry and trade with traeling seMe busines, woukd be established close to U#e
place to be the living zone of Dayuandu project for the settlement of migrants. The
production and rife of the migrants would not influenced after the movement The
annual income per person would be increased through settlement and supplying the
chance of employment
7. Environmental Protection of the Project
7.1 The Control Targets of the Evnironmental Protection of the Project
A. Control the water quality, air and noises pollution caused by thie engineering.
shipping and port ioading during the construction and operation periods to ensure the
ervironmental quality up to the eronmental standard of different functional reaches of
the the rver confirmed by the environmental prtectn departMl1nts in charge under
the govements
37



B. Cotrol te impacts on the bioo    environment of the rser and ffte
area around and reduce the inpacts to the least.
7.2   The Executive Institutes of The Environmetal Protection of the Project
The Xlgjiang Navigational Constructon Deveopment Corpoation in che  of
tfle project wil be resporsible for the enforoernent, supervisn and administtion of
efivironmcnti prtecton plan. The corporaton will establsh a enimetW protection
office as well as some erniroerietal protectio statons at Dayuandu Hub. Zhuzhou
Port and Hengxeng Port which will be responsible for the admintation and
management of erMronmental protecion.
EMronnental protection ofices (sections) at all lves cocerned will be
responblte for carrying out the envirmental supervisio dunng the consatucto and
carnrng out the environmnetal protection measures, asssting to invistigate and handle
the pollution oases, reporing the ermronmentaf problem  in the natural ecosphere and
society caused by the constuctio to the local enmronmental precton deparment
and communication departments. Environmental protection administrative organs of
the Xian)jiang nauvigatiora construction projt as weJl as its responsibilities are as
tollows:
38



Envkwo,ental Protecdon
Offie under The  ang-
jbng Navigatioral Cons-
tugdon CrPoratlon
Environmentaf Proteci  Environmenta Proecon       Enviromenta Protection
Section of the Power   Section underZhuzhou       Secton under Hn
Station                Shipping Administration    Shipping Adnilsti  on
Departent                  D
Environmental pection and                Envilronmestal polton control
polltion orolat the hYdro                in the port area and environ-
hub and re1uating reach                .ment mo@nlt@   In c@rltncdon
and environmient monitoring
in conestucton  _____ _
The competant department of the orporabon in coharge of the ermronmentat
protection shall be under the supervision of the envronrertnl c artIotes o
yoverments at provircial. municipal and county les.
7.3   The Sbttgy and Cost of -the Environmentl Protectn in ConstrUction
and Operation of the Project
A. The mtruction of Dayuandu hub project wil imprm more or less the
biological environment of the reservoir area. 'The probiem of fish migrton will be sotved
by building the fishpass. Transforming and building water outlets and pumPing staton
wli sohe the problem of drainage of watetiogging in the tower rand around the reservoir
area; and then adopt breeding industry instead of cutivatng industy at the odd lwer
39



land. all of which wi mke the econl activties mnt affected by the construction of
the prect
The impact on the water quat of the reaches near the job site, atmeosphe
and natural landscape carsed by the construction of the hub project wil be controlled to
the least by tahing respectve measures
S. The emphasis of ermronmernaf cor&l les on the polkution of atmosphere
and water qualty of drnk water sources at the kmer reache caused by te operaton of
the prject, especia  the floating dust produced in the loading process in coal lodin
area of Baishi Pot, Zhuzhou. The releavert operabon companes win adopt soe
measures. such as watering for duust controL setting the waste water and planting
forest reserve to inssure the environmental qualty reach the ratonal standards.
C. The JrTacts of the waterway regulating pnroect on the erMronment is limited
in the corstruction period, onty th-e throwing of ffe dredgng sift wiif afect the natural
capacity of river for pollutant treatrent In accordance with the physical and chemical
analysis the bed of the XGangiang is mainly composed of pebbles in big diameter
which will bring out littJe polution. Besides, the constuction sites are scattered on
twenty three shoals in the 120 Km reach. wih so many points and so long reach. the
time and rang of impact on water quality caused by ffe suspension are very limited,
which will bring out no pollutiorn in accordance with the engineenng practcal experernce
of years.
D. During the oeato period of the projec, the Mblem of tthe poIlution
caused by the shipping waste, especially the oity waste water is the emphsis for
environment evaluation and control. The ships shall be istalled with oil-weter seperator
and drainage conr  sYstem Ln accordance with 'Pollution Protection Structure and
40



Equipment Specifiation for Ships on Inand Rtver' stplated by sae shpping
pection bureau, and oily waste water colleton and treatng staions and  fuse
colecting sttons will be estabished at fte ports. The oly waste water and he refse
are not ailwed to drain into the iver, then te pdluion wQi be ctrd.
EL By on-the-spot invesiga7on, twere ae no relic submeged in the rang of
construction and operation of the project
F. In order to irspect the actual effect that wher the erMnronmetal protection
targe i reached the ernronmenta administtion and monitonng deparbtmts of sD
cities(counties) along the reaches of the project such as Hergyang Ity entrusted by
priect owner, will be responsible for the monitoing of water quality, atmxphere,
noises and fish so as to instruct and supervise the implementation of all environmental
protection measures.
The Summaly sheet of ernvronmertal protecion adminastrative and monitoring
measures, Atmosphere quality, water qualty and noises monitoring plan, Atmospthere
qualit monitonng points distribution and Water quality monitoring points distribution
see Appendix 2 -Appendix 8.
The funds for environmental protection of the project is estimated to be Rmb
391.02 million, among which Rmb 37.37 million for Dayuandu Hub projetCQnocluding
cutivated land protection. transforming of culet and sluie, stengthing embankment,
reservir dyke protection and buidding the fishpass), Rmb 620 ftusand for the
construction of Hengyang Port and Zhuzhou Port Rmb 760 tousand for environment
monitoring. All the expenses will be brought into the finanial estimates of the prcect
and payed in time in accordance with the process of the project.
The detals of irnestmen for the ermronmental protection meaSures see the
follc*ing tabe.
41



Inves5bent Table for Environmental Protecton
Nlnae d                                                            kwestiert
S1eaingst           htem                       Lk*t   Quantity     (RMB 103yi)
Osyuanhdu    I. Cuitvadd bra Prtetion                              1,O5
1. tir%sd capclty or wstf-
bIog   dame macte                K      1.125         1,125.0
2. VkmeofearVworkfo
lood cm"td canals                104m3 734            zm.0
3. Total area of flood
control carnals                  mu    372            Z29Z0
4. Subsidy for change
of cropping   .mu    Z390                             6,702-0
n. Flshpass                      place  1             10,38.0
111. Renortion of sluices        place               4,849.0
IV. Subsidy for reinfor-
cement d flood cofol
dyke                             1 03m3 500           Z00O.0
V. Highway rsvaton               km     1.5           30.0
VI. Reservoir banK
protection                                           ZQOO.0
.I. -Sedmentation tank           set   2
VII. Others (incuding
noises monitoring
42



instruments)                                      4,559.0
Subtotal                                          37,373.0
Hengyang   L. Simple spraying car           set   1           .100.0 
Port        11. Afforestation in pot
area                                              5.0
IU. Recycing and treat-
ment equipment ot
waste oil and water equipment                     50.0
Subto-                                            206
Zhuzhou      . -Sprinkling                  set   1            200.0
IL Sedimentation
tank                           set   1            105.0
111. Afforestion
in the port area               n2                 60.0
IV. Recycling and
teatnent equpment
of waste oil and water                            50.0
Subtotal -                                        41.50
Ernronment moniting
during conatuction and
operaton period                                   740.0
Personnel training                                368
TOl                                                           39,102
43



Note: 1. The cost for cornputer management system of environmental protection
project and foreign language training are incrxded in other relevarnt hivesnrnt plan-
-2 The expenses for purhase of hardware and software of computer for
envim menta protction project are included in oher reevarnt plan.
8.    conclusIon
In accordance with the assessment of the project and the research of strategy,
the construction of Oayuandu navagatwal regulation hub project in the Xiangjiang will
promote the deveopment of economic in the area around the reservr and have a
good effect on imprvernent of environmental quality.
The impacts caused by the corstrution of Dayuandu navagational regulating
hub project, wexept for the osses of land submerged, will be avoided or decreased by
taking effeciv measures and methods. Altough the problem of migrants caused by
the land submnierged in the reervoir and the impacts on part of kwer cultivated tand
around the reservoir caused by the raising of water ievel will produce the disadvantages
on natural environment and eonomic of socety, it will be reduced and even avoided by
carrying out the settement plan of migrants and project protection pian.
The constructon of Hengyang wharf and Zhuzhou wharf with lolotonage berths
and the watenway regulatng work from Dayuandu to Zhuzhou, as part of the Xiangjiang
navagational construto project, will improve thhe shipping conditions greatly, promote
the development of navigation in the XianWiang River, have an active effect on the
eonomic and culture of Hengyang City and Zhuzhou City, increase the environmental
quality of the reach from Hengyang to Zhuzhou and promote the progress of society.
From a longterrp point of view, it is very important for Hunan Province, as an inland
city, to open and develop the area along the iver and keep the same step wity the
44



city, to open and develop the area alon the rier and keep the same step wity the
coastal development zones by the Xiang ravagatonal cnstuctn and taking
advantage of the Yargtze rwer for river-and-sea cordinated transprtation.
The watewAy reguating wak iss able to increase the aci of water body for
holding te pollutions and thhe capacity of tans T. 1he oily waste water drained
by ships and other poUlutant wil be increase a ritle, with the inreasiQ of shipping
capaciy and cargo handling capacity, which Will be cotroled by r oing the
environrrental adminisaton and taking effedle environen  protecton measures
and have litte influence on water quality. The foating dust produced in the tlding
process will be cut down by taldng the respecve erironmental protection measures.
In general. should the ermronmental protecton measures and enironmental
protection plan be carried out, the disadvantageous influences caused by the
construction of Dayuandu rnvagatonal hub work and the ports work and watewway
regulating work wJIl be reduced to fHe least, and the corstrut   of Yongri Port at
Zhuzhou will create great environmental benefits. By weighing the advantages and
disadvantages, we think hat the environmental beneft of the Xiangjiang (from
Hengyang to Zhuzhou reach) vill exceed.its negatve inffuence on environment The
project is feasible, vwing at the angle of environmental protecton.
45



Appendix I  Summary Table of
Evaluation on the Environment Impacts
Prediction
Proj.                                 -      Prediotion Method      Standard Applied   RAviromnatal 'Impact
Item            Coktent
Water quality In  COD,             Two dimensional       The 11 grade surfaco  Every1 Index in the
the upstream of  Volatile   pho-  convection diffusion  Water onvironrnontal  drlirikng  proteotion
the reservoir    nol,              model,                quality standard      area  mcets  tbe  I1
cyarkide I        Oil gathering  esti-  (GB 3838-88)          8rad6 wator quality
meroury,  .      matlon mbdel                                standard
cadmium,
chromium,
arATen,
aluminiurm,
S;    Aq'watIo         Tho flab' s and                                               The fish's mi8ration
sptation      d                 .nd spawning wJl be
11                     spawning                                                      Influenced  by  the
X The rise of Wa- Rcservoit                              Designina Measures  Tbero  will be 349
ter level        lnundation and                          about the Irrigation  mu farmland to bo
8           .          rosetllerent                            and    Hydrooloetrio  inundatod,   804ui1
project (SD130-84)  houso to be dismtanm
tled and 18 people of
3 houscs to be resot-
Bankcs and cul-                        The local tlood level  The water level will
verts surround-                        inf the 20-year flood   notreaso 0. 07 to 0.
.ng the reservoir                      frequency              lrm,  and  it will
have lMOOl influence
CA the banks but
somo  influonoo  on
the drainaao of tho
69 culverts.
_ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _  _  _ _    _  _   _  _ _    _  _  _ _                     1



ApV rndLx I continued)  _
Predlotion
Project                   - .                Prediotlon Mothod     Standard Applied   Envlrornantal Impact
Item            Content
Impact  during  Production                                                     The tivor will be-
the contruotion  waste   wator,                                                como mnuddy-and-the
stago            dust,    nolsa,                                               air and noise envi-
discarded   soil                                              ronment In tho con-
and stone.                                                   struction rogion wilt
worsen.
The DLngjiqIao  Plying  dust of Gauss   continuous  Air  environnmental Tho  port and  the
Port         in  phosphbte ores   point source model   qusiity standard        vicinity of the port
Hengyang                                                 (GB809585)
Oily water      Oe-group mono-di- Surface Water quiali-  Generally the drink-'
from vessels     mensaonal modei       ty standard            Ing wator quality i
(OB3838-88)          not affected
Drlaking water qual-
ity stafndatrd
(GB8749-86)
.  o                   Noise             Point noise  sourco  Envirommcntal          Notto in tho port ra-
* f        modol or line noiso  noise  standard  for  Sion  van  inect the
source model          urban rogion          standard. Tho nolso
(GB3086-82)           ,as  little  Influence
on tbc environment
The yongll port  Corl  dust  In  Gauss point souroa  Air  envitornmontal The  rogion  about
and  the Balshi  loading and un-  modol                  quality standard      440m  far from  the
port in zhuztiou  loading                                (GB3095-82)           pollution center qn
meet     8
,                                                            .                   GS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~03095-82;



Ap cndix I (continued)-_
Prediction
Projeoo  __ ______  .                   .    Prodiotlon Method      Standard AppUod   Enylromnantal Imnpaot
Item            Content
The yongli port  Ofly water from   One-group mono-dlt  Surface water qualil.  Gonerally tho drint-
and  the Bauhl vessels            mnonsional model       ty standard            inB. water quality is
port in zhuzhou                                           (OB3838-88),          not affected.
Drlnltn8 water qual-
ity standard
(OB5749-85).
Nolso             Point noise  source  Environmental noise  Noise In the Baishi
modol or Une noise   standard  for urban  port cnn meet &tan-
source model          rogion                dard,
..(GS3086-12)         tqNoisa in the Yonsia
port sometimes ox-
.______  ____.__.___,                                      ooods  standard.
.     SbIpphi...,Routo River's capacity                                               The transport, mix-
6Regulation           of holding pal-                                                ture and dooxygena-
o                         tlutants                                                    tion of the pollutants
will be speoedd up
0           .                                       .                                  ond tho riverr s os-
pacity  of  holding
poUutants  J3  trn-
proved.
> s 
p.                      _   _  __,                                          .______.
Aquatic animals                                               Tho proJect Will not
C                      and plants                                                     produce now  pollu-
tion sources or dam-
e  age  the  spawning
0
around, or blook the
fish' s miarotina
course. So tte pro-
)eot will haya littlo
<                                 .                                    ,              influence on
o                                                                                     aquatic animals and
3 _ _ _ . . . . . _, . plants.



e)D ndix I (continued)
Prediotion
Proeot            _-_                        Prediotion M4 ethod    Standard Applied   Enviromnontal lrpAot
Item            Content
The,  fnuenri.                                                Blasting  rocks and
. . during tb  con-          .xoavation  of river
.trtuction   per'                                             bed have littlo influ-
od.                                                           ence on water quail-
ty during shost peri-
od.
Increaie . of  Vessel    noise                            Tioe  standaTd  for  Tiac poUuatnts dis-
tre{ght volume    and  discharged                         pollutants 4isehard-  chardod from  vessel
wasto             .-                   .orom vess0l           accordjing   to  the
.  (0B3552-Q3).       standard  4&ve littlo
.tnXuenco  on  Water
quality.
__            - __    _                                        _ 



- Appendix 2
Summary Table
of
the Administration and Managerment of Environmental Protection
for Dayuandu Hub Project
1. Designing Phase
Main Problems                Control Measures            Excutrs
1.1 Flood prevention  1.1. ISelect correctly the proper dam site,  Hunan Design
and submergence of    dam type.flood diharge type, oerflow widft   Institute
the reservoir area   and resonable regulating leel so as to reduce  of
the losses of submergence and have no   Communicatons
impact on the flood preventio in the
reservoir area.
1.2 Rising of water  1.2.1 Adopt the stone masonry bank and the   Hunan Design
level to widen the   slopped bank cavered by grass for the ciff    lnstte of
water surface. to    bank and loose-soil bank                Communica-
prolong the immersion                                        tons and
time of the bench terraces                                   Hengyang
and to increase the water                                    Municipal
erosion and water cut                                        Government
on the banks
1.3 Rising of water level 1.3.1 The dykes of the section under the  As same as the
endangers some dyke   administration of Hengyang City are being  above
fortitying setions and    reinforced in the winter-engineering of
submerges partial    embankment projects the average I meter
drainage facilites   will be raised on the exsting dykes. After
the engineefing has been completed the
flood control capacity of the embankment
in the reservoir area will be encreased;
1.3.2 The would-be-submerged drainage
gates and cuhvert, overflow canals shall
be transformed and improved before the



water detention of the reservoir.
1-4 Submerging the   1.4.1 !uild the overflow canais before water    As same as the
farm land inside the  detention of tte reservoir '           above
dyke of the reservoir    1.4.2 Transform or build pumping,
1.4.3 Pefect the plantaton-change plan;
1.4.4 Well settle the assisting work at bhe
later phase.
1 .5 Salinization and  1.5.1 Because of the enough rainfall and by    As same as the
alkalinization of soil    adopng the above mentoned draining  above
in the embarkment    measures, the farm land will be kept in
area                 in good conditions
1.6 The migraton of    I.6.1 Build the fishpass fishes migratior  Hunar
fishes blocked by                                            Hydroelectric
the dam                                                      Design Insitte
1.7 Influence otn    1.7.1 Reinforce tte tee planting and aftore-    The govemrnments
ecosystem            staion, enlage the forest caver rate so as  of Hengyang Crty
to prevent water loss and soil erosion,  at levels
Develop Me ecoagncuture and reduce emission
d sewage.
1.8 Historical relic  1.8.1 ftrs a channelype reservoir. In the inspec- As same as
protection   -        on and pospecting, no historical relic above-  the above
ground or underground have been found.
2 Engineering phast 
Main Probienms             Control Measures                  Excutrs
2



21 The muddy        2.11 Build setlingtankemit th waste watr  Contracs)             -
degree increase     after teatment or purchase the ready-4r-use
by the waste water    sand and stone material. Inspect and check the
of the processing   density of the suspended solids regularly.
sandand stone
material in the
engineering phase.
22 Dust and air     22.1 The dust will shape no air pollution because  Contv}cto(s)
polluton caused by    the engmieenng ste is wide enough and is some   environent
engineering and     distane to any villages and because of the damp  monitor
barspoittion        condition of the water conservance engirneering    station
o- matea            222 Spray wat on the eartwork site at proper
tines and plant tees and grass after the work has
been completed.
Z223 Mix the concrete in closed midxure tower with
the ba2-type strainer.
22Z4 Use te special truck with large volume tank
for transporting the building material (mainly
the cement).
25 Build concrete or bituminous road leadng
to the engierig sit.
226 Build the bitumen mbang station installed with
the wasle gas purir at the leewrd of and with a
distance to resident and gather area.
227 Inspect and check the quality of atmosphere in
the engineering area regularly.
23 Noise pollution  2.31 Use the k-noe engineering machinery Contractor(s),
in the engineering  with good performance,                  the enirornment
area                 2.3.2 Arrange the high noise engineering in day section at the
times as possible.                     sib
23.3 Rteinforce the maintence for the
machinery of transportation and engineering.
Z3 4 Monitor the nvoises o the constucfion site.
3



.4 Water loss and   24.1 Alta it has been cut int the shape, the   Contractrs)
soil erosion caused  bank slopes shall be *ansoned or greened by
by cut of bank      plantng trees and grass as soon as possible
slopes,             and build drainage diths to prevent earth slide,
watrw loss and soil erosion.
2.5 Problem of      25.1 Because the stone needed es purchased  The suppiser(s)
stoe pit            at the nearby stone pi;, te sx suppie shall o st"ne
regreen the places. resume the original
landscape and protet the environment in
accordance with the requirement of the local
gonment and the envwomntl potectin
deparmnent
25.2 The safe meawres shaft be made out for
the smne mining at the stone pit in accordance
with the regulations promulgated by reeent
autxrities.
26 The waste         26.1 Set a ground for the waste erth and stone, Contractor(s)
earth and stone     ten plant tees on the ground or use the ground
as farm land.
27 Waste oil of      27.1 Collect the waste oil of the engineering   Contactor(s)
the engineering      machinery to the teatment station of the
machinery           waster oil nearby, directemission shall be
prohibited-
2.8 Collection       28.1 The sewage shall be treated by bar  Contractor(s)
and treatment        screen, oil separatng tank, setling tank firstty
of sewage and        Me fecal sewage shall be treated by septic
refuse of the       tank) and shall be reached the state emission
camping ground      standard before emitto the farm land nearbfy
or directly to the Xiang1iang River. The domestic
emfse shall be coilected by a central refuse
teatment centre
4



29 Public health     29-1Well settle the clean work for the  Xarngjiang
eseNoir bed                            NaVgatial
2 9.2 Sellect the qualified water resource ot    Construcio
drink water, if no resource, dig the weDs  Co. and the
for tadng the underground water.       Henyang
2.9.3 reinforce the health administation of  Municipal
tie residenci quarters of the engineerg  Government
area.
29.4 Arrange the epidemic prevention wor,
it needed, for tie staff and workess and the
rWeidets nearby.
210 Safety Admi-     210.1Reinforce t safety admirsation in and Contactor(s),
nistraion in the     carry out the saFety operation regulations for the the m4evant
engineering phase    blast engineering;                      provincial
-210.2 Well settle the temporary navigation plan transportation
and facilites; reinforce the navigation admini-  and communi-
s-tation, pefectly set up navigation signs; set   cations admini-
up take-care stati, if necessary.      stratve depart-
menat
2.11 The underground   211.1 Notice as soon as possible t local    The goverments
cultural relic       cultural relic protection departnens to  at leves relaed,
take the emergent prate6five measures, if  Contrator(s)
find any underground cultural relic.
3.0peration of Navk8atin
Main Problems               Contro Measures                 Executrs
3-1 Waste material   3.1.1 All ships navigated through fte area shall The environmen-
treatment (including  be installed the oil/water sepeator, emission   tal secons of
waste oio            control system and the waste oiwatr tank;   ports, the
The domestic waste and cargo's wasle shall  relevant shipping
be collected. then sent to lhe collection  companies



station for beatment
3.2 Noise contol     321 Reinforce the stiip inspecton, probibit   The ship
of ship              the operation of ships ftiat the noises surpass  inspecion
the standard of noise cnrl.           depatnents.
the relNant
shipping
companies
3-3 Industial sewage   There is no industial sewage to be emited  Hengyag
by the hub itseffH The industrial sewage  Municipal
mainly come from Henyang municipal     Govemment
area. A sewage cut-off project is on con-
struction in Hengyang municipal area by
the Hengyang government After tie project
has been completed, the drink water quality
will become better.
3.4 The harmful      Reinforce the safety training for tie staff and    Administative
maerial leaking      workers of navigation companies, stictly carry  departments of
accident             o the state regulations on shipment of dang-  taraportaon
erous cargo, report any leaking accidnets to   and commu-
relevant departments and take emergency  nicabons, ship
measure to insure the safety.          inspections
departments,
shipping
companies
3.5 fish resources   Monitor the species ancl amount of fish through Emnronmental
monitoring           the fish channel by the ftsh channel monitor    protection section
centre                                 of the power sta-
tion, .Mernyang
Eivironmertal
Monitor Station.
3.6 Water quality    Monitor the water quality regularty in acov-
6



monitos              dance with the re1eoari plan.
7



Summary Table
of,
Enviromental Protection Administration and Management of Ports
I.Deslgning Phase
ain Problems                Control Measures                 Executos
1.1 The influnae of  1.1.1A site of poftsail be seetd at a place  Hunan
loading and unloading   wfit a distance to the croded area of people;  Comnmunications
at the port and wharfs  the stucture of wharfs and the occupaion of   Design lnstiute,
on the flood contrl  any flood channel by any wharfs shall be in    Hunan Navi-
facilibes of the city    conformity with te requirements of flood  Affairs Design
dNersion The desgnature schematic,      Institute
only after approved by the municipal
food control deparrent, become vWid.
1.2 The protecton    1.21 The selection of any wharf sites shall   As same as
of the drink water   be in comnforrnity with the state retevart  the above
source in the        stioulations th;at any sites of wharfs shall
construction of the  keep a necessary distance from the inake of
wharfs.              drinkwater.
The machinery loading and unloading process
and building of port, especially the bulk-cargo
wharfs.
1.3 Waste water      1.3.11he rain and washing effluence shall  As same as the
treatment at the     be ollectd in th -i setding tank for     above
port areas          treatment and then to imite after it has
reached the relevant standards.The
domestic seweage shall be drained into
sewer.
1.4 The dust influence   1.4.1 Control dust byspaying water on  As same asfthe
on the environment    the bulk-cargo wharfs, plant trees anc.  above.
:                                                    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



at the pors          grass bt formn a green belt and green thie
podt area for control dust in accordance
with the requirements of" fthe Podt
Engineerng Technical Specifiation of
China 7.The green area sal be over 15%
of the tot area of a port
1.5 Waste emited by    1.5.1 The wast oil collectiVe station and te  As same as w
ships at the pot area   rubbi colectv stAion shall be set up  above
atthe ports-
2. Constructon Phase
Main Problems            Control Measures                       Excutos
2 1 The pollulion on  21.1 The scale of the port constution  The contraccor(s).
the water quality and    is small, so that the influence caused by  The environrental
air caused by port   port constructim on the environment     protection
constiroctron.       will not exeeding tat of the building   section of port
constuction engineering.
The cement shall be transported with
closed tank tuck. Air storage is not
allowed.
The water quality and air quality shall be
monitored regularly.
22 Construction.     22.,1 Choosing construton machines wifth  The contractr(s)
noise.               good performance and low noise and      environmental
strengthing te noise monitoring during   protection sections
the consrbung period.                    of pofts
try best to aange the engineenring wit
high noise in the day time.
23 Public HeaM       2.31The domestic rubbish in the living area    The contractor(s),
shall be colxected and sent to the rubbish  the municipal
2



stdion of the city.                    san6tbon and
The constuction workers wig take protet  anbependic
inoculation if necessary, to prevent a disease  department
from spreading.
3. Operation Period
Main Problems          Contol Measures                      Excutos
3.lTreatment of      3.1.1AII the ships in business operation shall be Shipping compa-
waste emited by      installed with oil water separator and emmision niesand envion-
shipsQn cluding      conrol system and waste oil and water tank    ment protection
waste oid)          (cubide)'                               section of th-e
Waste oil and qater are not alowed to be  ports
emitod inbo river directly.The waste oid and
water coUlective statons shall be established
at tie ports. The domestic rubbish of the
ships and ffie dregs of the goods shall be
collected and sent to rubbish station.
3-2 Noise control    3.2.1.Checkthe ships stictly and pohibit te
at the port         ships, which is not in conformity with the
noise standard to operate
Adopt the loading machines with low noice.
Strengthen the rraintenance management
of the operational machinery.
Monitor the environmertal noise regularly
shipping and port enteprises, Environmental
prtction depatent
3.3 West wate.       3.3.1 All the ships in business operation be    The environment
treatment at the    installed wfith oil water separator and  protection
port area.           emmision control system and waste oil  sections of the
and water tank (cubide).               po4ts.
3



3.4 Le5 age of the  3.4.A Strenghen safety educaticn to the  The shipping
ha~imful substance  loading and transportirkg personn~el and  comnpanies the"
in accident         carry out strictly the natioral stipuLatiors  public se-urity
orbcoadang and transporting of the dangerous   departments
phos    s           angoods-                                andthervi-
Take the emergency meacures inrediately  inspection
to prevent the poution from speading and pae
report to the local shipping inspecnton
deP2AzMent~ if leakage, happened, and
cooperate with environmental protectpin
department and pubric security depardtent
to carry out the effec v troeatrnentso as t
redue btu ervirinmental pollutio0 as low
as possible.
3c5 Dust caused 3it1 Spay water rgulaly to control dust     The port
by coal and          and clean the sites for loading of bulk-cargo    companies
phosphorus           and air sporge.
min6rals
3.6 Domestic         3.6.1 The domestic waste woater shl be  The port com-
wastp emited into the sewer and the domestic                paniese locl
rubbish shall be coliected and send to  environmental
the rubbish station of the city.         protectio and
health
departments..
3.7 Increase of      3.7.1 .Te first -grade ring road is planned  Local
land transportation  to be built in Hengyuarng in 2000 and the  govemnments
capacity            second-grade roa7d along the river is
planned to be built in Zhuzhou, which are
the mian transportation ways .Construction
of the two ports with kow density of
transportation will not inccrease the
pressure of transportafion in fth cities.
3.7.2The existing, sand and stDne wharfs will be
4



moved out of ihe center of te cifies when
Yongli port of dk>onage is sited in
constrution atZhuzhou The annual
cargo-handling capacity WI' be reduced
fom 10OG ktto 42Olt Tbe condition of
tlc armund the port will be improved.
~~~~~~5



Summary Table
of
Environmental Proteton Administation and Management
for
Dredge and Regulaton
i Design Phase
Main Probems           Control Measures                      Excutors
11 Influence on the    1.1.1Choosethe reasonable saitthrowing  Hunan
environment          area so as to improve the effect of      Navagional
caused by the sift   dredge and be benefira to the            Affairs
ffr the dredging     diversion of the flood.                  Insttues
work
1.2 The influence on    121 The distribution of te river     As same as
the embankment and   regulating stucture shall be             the above
te inite of pumping  reasonable so as tD avoid te
station caused by    eroso on fte embankrent
reguluting stuctures    1 2:The water inlt channe" will be
prepared at the dam root IF the
regulating stucture are
estabished in the chanel
segment where the pumping
station is set up.
2.0perarton Phase
Main Problems           Control Measures                       ExcutomS
21 The ifluence     21. lThe shoala tD be dredged            The contractor(s)
on the water quality    are composed of pebble or            the environmental
caused by dredging    rock in general. The content of        monitoting stabons.
and deepening        heavy metals are low .The shioals are  fte environmental



engineering.        scattered in the channel of 120         proteon sections
kileter ong and the unit capacity      of Dayndu
of dredging is low. So the harmful     Project
substance d the bling will
not exceed the starndard in large
rnge and long peiod ttaldng
te folmng measures.
A .choose the measonable dredge
boat-stye and optimize te
operatn procss.
B. Set up the sand arresting
heavy curtain.
C.Strergten the water quality
monitring at the dredging points
of lwer reach, especially the
the was intaking places of the
cifies.
2.2 The influence    2.21 Dredging and reef explosion will na be   The contractor(s)
on the fish          injurious to fish because the dredging
engineering is to be carried out in the winter
and the dredging ste is not the dwelling
place for fih.
222 The content of heavy metals will not
exeed the stanKard in large range and long
period for the dredging with scattered points
is arranged in a short period so that to
increase no heamful substance in the
fish body.
2.3 The influence on    23.1 Issue navigatin notice,stipulate explosion
shipping safety     time and set up marks and warning lines to
causedby feef        ensure navgation safety.
xplosion
-2



3. Operation Phase-
Main Problems            Control Measures                 Excutors
aI Wasbt            3.1.1 All operatonal ships be installed  Eniromental
emited by ships      with oil-wat separator and discharge   prction
(inciuding waste oil)    system and waste oil and water cubine  sections of the
(ccubide)-                             ports, a
Sep up waste oil and watr coiecting    shipping
station at fe pots                     companies
Waste oil and water are not alkwed to
discharged into the rive directy.
32 Noise cotroI of    321   Shipping noises will not exceed  Shipping
ships                naiona standard because the            inspection
Xlangj.ang is very wde and the         departnents,
embankment founded for flood cortrol   shipping
along cifies and towns is able to      companies
regarded as deafening defence.
3-2.2 Check ships and boats stricty and
prohibit the shippings which is not in
onformity with noise standard tD
operate.
3.3 Harmful substance  3.3.lStrengthen safety education on  Shipping
leakage by accident    ship's crew, excute related stipulations  companies,
on the dangerous goods transportation  navigation safety
and lay down a set of preventive and   department in
remedial measures.                     charge
Take all the emergency measures
immediately,if leakage happened, and
repostto the environmental protecton
deparrneat and pub,ic security
department so as to reduce the loss
and influence to the lea
3



3.4 Dredging project   In accordence with the nver ejulawg
for maintenance.    experiences in Hunan, the volue of
silt in the vaterway is kw.The voume
of silt to be diugged out in maintenance is
less than that ffor cowe CMI engineering
so-a tMe maintenance dreding
will not polute and do harm to the wate
quality ad fish.
3.5 Impart on fish  No impacts on fish.
4



CONSTRUCTION PHASE               Appedix 3   Action Plan Table of the Emironment Monitoring
CHANNEL CONTRACTS                    PORT CONTRACTS                       DAM CONTRACTS
WATER         -30 days before construction starts on a  *30 days before construction starts on a  .30 days before construction starts on a
channel section;             .. -   channel section;                    channel section;
-sample morning and afternoon;      -sample morning and afternoon;      -sample morning and afternoon;
-sample at the first monitoring transect  -sample at the first monitorlng transect   -sample at the first monitoring transect
downriver from the constructlon area;    downriver from the construction area;    downriver from the constructon area;
-sample at each of the water Intakes or  -sample at each of the water Intakes or  -sampI at each of the water Intakes or
diversion points;                   diversion points;     ,    Anex   diverslon points;            A
-each samplo to be analyzed for Annrak  -each sample to be analyzed fori *_2   _-each sample to be analyzed for -2
*1 day each month during construction;  -1 day each month during construction;
-sample&mprning and afternoon;     -sample morning and afternoon;
-sample at the first monitoring transect  -sample at the first monitoring transect
downriver from the construction area;    dowrirlver from the construction area;
-sample at eaoh of the water Intakes or  -sample at each of the water, intakes or
diversion points;                   diversion points;  X       Annex
-each sample to be analyzed for List #2.  -each samole to be analyzed for:. $_'2-__
-every day for first 7 days of      -every day for first 7 days of      -every day for first 7 days of construction
construction and then 1 day per week;   construction and then I day per week;   and then 1 day per week;
- -sample morning and afternoon      -sample morning and afternoon       -sample morning and afternoon
-sample at the first monitoring transect   -sample at the first monitoring transect   -sample at the first monitoring transect
downriver from the construction area;    downriver from the construction area;    downriver from the eonstructlon area;
-sample at each of the water intakes or  -sample at each of the water intakes or  -sannple at each of the water intakes or
diversion points;                   diversion points;                   diversion points;
-each sample analyzed for DO and $S    -each sample analyzed for DO and SS    -each sample analyzed for DO and SS
*1 day after completion of construction   .1 day after completion of construction   -1 week after cdmpletlon of construction
-sample morning and afternoon;      -sample morning and afternoon;      -sample morning and afternoon;
-sample at the first monitoring tkansect   -sample at the first monitoring transect  -sample at the first monitoring transect
downriver from the construction area;    downriver from the construction area;    downriver from the constructlon area;
-sample at each of the water Intakes or  -sample at each of the water Intakes or  -each sample to be analyzed for Annek
diversion points;          Annex  diversion points;            Ann,    .-
-each sample to be analyzed for   b    -each sample to be analyzed fo02  :      _ _ .               _
-3-12 times per year                sampling program part of program    sampling program part of program.
-sample morning and afternoon       described under "Channels"-         described under "Channels"
-sample at 8 monitoring transects (3
sampling sites across the channel;
-samples to be analyzed for Annexc -2 .    _ . _  ' I      _     _
vKl..



AIR            Dust Inputs, Insignif...ant compared to   -In position all week;          -In position all week;
other sources; civil works equipment    *4-6 dustfall jars positioned uniformly    *8 dustfall jars positioned uniformly
very simple.                         around the port at the site boundary;  around the site at boundary;
NO SAMPLING                          -analyze for quantity of dust collected    -analyze for quantity of dust collected
_________________________________    during  week.                        during  week;
TSP: Inputs insignificant compared to    -1 day per week                   -1 day per week, oncelday
other sources; civil works equipment    -4 sites to leeward of pout based on  - 4 locations around the constructilon
very simple,                         average monthly wind direotlon;      site;
NO SAMPLING                          -samples analyzed for TSP            -samples analyzed for TSP'
NO,/SO2; Inputs insignificant compared   NO,/SO: Inputs3 insignificant compared   -1 day per month; once/day
to other sources; civil works equlpment  to other sources; civil works equipment   - 4 locations around the construction
* .J5!; b;, 9le.                  very simple.                         site;
__ __        ' s;, i"C   __                 NOSAMPLING.         .                -samples analyzed for NO SO
NOISE         -dally by project supervising staff at  -daily by project supervlsIng staff at  *dally by project supervising staff at
sites being reviewed;                sites being reviewed;                sites being reviewed;
-morning, afternoon and night where  -sample morning, afternoon and night   -sample along truck routes and at
possible but at least one of the three  where possible, but at least one of the    quarries;
times, particularly durlng blasting  three times,                         -sample morning, afternoon and night
events.                                                                   where possible, but at least one of the
three times.
FISH          -2 timos pe ye          .2 tis4. P                  ar -o-r    -2 tmos              pet yor.
*4 locations between Dayuandu and    *2 locatlons each within the urban   I- location between 0.25 and 0,5 km
Zhuzhou;                             sections of Hengyang and Zhuzhou;    below Dayuandu;
-species and quantity present;       *specles and quantity present;     -*species and qu'antity present;
-analysis of four'species of carp (2 fish   -analysis of four species of carp (2 fish   -analysis of four species of carp (2 fish
leach) for Hg, Cd, As, Cr, Pb, Zn.    eadh) for Hg, Cd, As, Cr, Pb, Zn.  _ each) for Hg, Cd, As, Cr, Pb, Zn
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
. .                                                       .~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~~~    
: ~~~ ~     ~         ~~                ~~                ~~               ~       ~       ~. ,                r



OPERATIONS PHASE
CHANNEL                               PORTS                           DAMISHIPLOCK
WATER          -3-12 times per year                 sampling program part of program     sampling program part of program
-sample morning and afternoon        described under "Channels"           described under "Channels"
-sample at 8 monitoring transects ('3
sampling sites across the channel;
_   -samples to be analyzed for List #1 _    _            _
AIR            Dust: Situatlon to improve or not   -In position all week;                Dust: Situation to Improve or not
change.                              -6 dustfall jars positioned uniformly  change.
NO SAMPLING                         around Baishi and Yongli Terminals    NO,SAMPLING
(Zhuzhou);
-analyze for quantity of dust collected
.______           during week;
TSP: Situation to improve or not    -1 day/ month; I time/day            TSP: Situatlon to Improve or not
change.                             -4 locations around the facility;     change.
NO SAMPLING                         -samples analyzed for TSP            NO SAMPLING
NO)SO2: Situation to improve or not  -1 day/ month; I time/day;          NO,,SO: Situation to improve or not
change.                             - 4 locations around the facility;   change.
NO SAMPLING                         -samples analyzed for NO, 02         NO SAMPLING
NOISE         *1 day/ week;                        -1 day/week;                         SlItuation to Improve or not change.
-morning and afternoon;             -morning, afternoon, night;          NO SAMPLING
-5 stations at facility boundary;   -5 stations at facility boundary;
-annually 5% of ships to be Inspected at  .0.5 hour duration each time.
three sites on ship (by Shlps Insp. Adm)      ._.
FISt          -eat hieshimun (belowr Dsundu):      -1 location each within the urblD    -t fish ladder;
.   -2 times per yoar; 8peci. and    sections of Hongang and Zhuzhou;   -2 tiems per year: spec. and
quoantity  presflent; and analysi, of  -2 tines per yea^sr; 0o15 and  .    uanatity  roseut;Iand analynia of
.fioulr species of carp (2 fih each)  iuenlity preent; aDd analii of     fo  spcie tpro      (2 fmh     )
.   for Hg. Cd. As. Cr. Pb. Zn       four speclsof GaZrp 2 fLab each)    t9r Hg. Ca. As  Cr.   .Zb.,;
f.r. H. gd. A .                                 A. r.  . ..
~~~~____________                                                  _ _._ _ ___ _  .__A_.___iI||
N.s.                                                                                                      l:
--5, !'6



I    -~~~>2
(recommended for construction period monitorng)
pH
BOD
Ss
petroleum
NH.-N
Hg
Cd
Pb
Zn
Cr (+6).



A7pedix 4
-       Size of Dredged Xmterials fr&  23 Shoals in Xiangjiag  iIerC-2zziw)
__ NOGr X   E   s  J   I   &ain  Size     Sample Section
"Nme       .   Nature of Rv"er                   -           -       -
_Bed               dmuc   dai: do9    dso    diD1
I                                                    .
Yun sz  Shoat          Stl bPne                           
__________.S.md.                                                     __l
2   lengeka  Shoal                                         40      35      1.3      St.IA   il
3  Sand aPebble       60              11      n.68    0.25
3~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1.9                                         1.4    0.64  Shallow Waterway
G tChca ; . shoal
4                        
Yangjiayan Shoal    Saod
.      _m IosI            Pebble &Rock
Edshoat            rock
7                                           sol ebl&oc    10.1  50  19      0.26  iiiuoutra
IFantign Shoat          PeibblI & Rod        SUW1            5        9      8  6liddle of Vaterny
J  gasu  Shoal        Rock & Pebbl.
3.7    0.36   0.16
40     < 0.1   25.3 -   13.0   Q. 20   Middle of waterway
Yuzigang Shoat        S=d & Pebble            .           0.47     8.34   0.24
X+lv;v                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~26.11   18.5   0.235
10    g       Sh                              40       0.1     2. l    8.M 5   .       jd5 liid te of Waterway
Wugsiiwaa Shoal      Sand a Pebble                       1;115    8.341   Q iS1S
11
_   Wanhu   Shoal       Ro nd  Pebble b b
12    *                                       .. 
lfils Shzoalt        S       Pebble & Rocl;
|   n9e2amgmga   Shoat iSand Pebble & Ra:od..   
|apengzi Shoal        Sa|& Pebble I.e                  |                           _
} 15|                1                   1 tO  -t 8.1     F75.0    41.7    1.0   Near the Middle of
is                               80     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.1
f    Sizu Shoal           &Sand   Pebble                        16.0    0.34   0.15   Waterway
halSig Shoat         1   Rock                       - I                              _ I    -
~ta! ing ShoaL                Rock                      I__'1
Seame Shoal           Pebble & Rok         200      0.1    58.0    18.55   0.17  Midd-le of Waterway
-~~~~~4~~~~~I1~~~~~~~ ~20                           3.       0.3
19                                             40       .1           1iddlte of Waterwy
kongzhoe Shoal        Sand & Pebbte                       0.82      0      0.40
l     ukwShoal             Sand a Pebble       __  J            0.0    0.54       . 18 I Middle of Waterway 
I.1.-.___1    1 a
1|           Shoat       | Sand & Pebble     |               |          43  t 1?    Middle of Waterway
i 22                                            s8    11   I              jiddle of Waterway
cLoJi shoat           Sau   Pebble                   -     .3  '.28   0.17 
T. -'Shoe1 SId                                                      _-1_-_



t[Gv,ro~~~-,.._-.,_, _ 
Greiitg DiagCm of Gwms for GraiS  fro e                       I
& GI
Lfl   I                                                           I  I
6.04
X   4._fl                                             tT         _=_  _i_ _ _
-Oz~~IO2 --45Q0_ 86E gO 9 { 0
*~~~~~~~Wih Nrenag  -I  MinoI G r i  ii  a Ctia Size 
,&4                                                     ||Sg   
- ¢   t [ I 4t it f-t--3{lit    |4wiruillliEl4liTr   l   l
go                            +
a'O 'w
==4 -ES,
v   m  t W   t l t l l Z I Ml l t i  l i tl  ! N 1 Wi l l W Liti Blm  Zll#L;  s l t sI l L S   S miR 
lt * |J + .srzrn r| l l+ sT l  n lTa  l :rr n rfi.r - 14  A       ^il!l 
; t  .$mllfflllllllllllll! 0llLHllllllllll-HI- 40  59 60ltl 9! 9
- .F;l-141g.7MlltiWlfSlei&TLlt 11'17   41r~ ta    GrallRl6S:l.tin M-   a  Sll i m    



I                        *-  I                                                            r
- ~   ~    t    I:           Mlii   tiIIII                                        Tr._
S f~~tit  T
~~~~4.                                       -     -  > -.1         -- u -                           -     -
'      1.''-      '                     '' .    -  '     .'j
:.  :._.. _  -*--                                          . -  .. .  i; 4 . -   . . . -.
I _____    e _          '           ::*   t-.
- - -                         ~       ]fi~- _ Z : L  i -I    I     I -
I.-S                        4 0
'   .  .~~~~~~2                           =6      =       0       .- _0        9.N l;          1    95E';



* radig Diagrm  o Cutr   for Grain Siw fro  Y,az g   ShOs1               7
samplel            I.'~S                                  
-  -~         ts        rn aXt-me            tX- 
-sampi.   2j  __ oi
. t ' , .. 1~~. . ..    .  ...s    ...,  
t         _I_ t  _ _   I 4 t
1-[                                             __ I
=  - 1~- .                    -=-I
~~~~.                                      Tfi ,  _,_ ..sX.4,__ =,,E 
_*___ = _ 5 23= _Ii4lf    _        ..__._ ___
__  w    #            0 ;oW                 ___________________
+ -i----        -      -~'--? -  I-'-;- :r~        _________                  _,__.,___
- hb!-_i----fi -'- -  --
,,   . t         .             4. -.-  - 'z_
jc .J.4. Js4h...4 .   t- *11s       I.,- *  i-                  . ;--   :- -.   -
>* ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    o M4E SR  i~rina    Vsreixag  -is -- *-*;' 



S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'          . 1 
7.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U s o f o   2
I 41-11 4.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*1 ~    4
i~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...   . .... ,  .  V . . ..  :.ff ,, ... ..ii~ . .~j7;i~U  ,  ArlII,  ,
.9...   .   ..                                                                  F
..  .  ..    . .   .:   ,   .    ,    ,  ,,,   ,    ,    .  __.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il;il tt1 1t ..:t_1-. -~  
/60 0%  J'O, 40  20  4/- 3 J-r                             04 A,4 A,14 Av   0-0) O-Of P-V)-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



{;.,'-  2s,t  6   O0                                       -  f   
.-              .4
-    1  _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~ ---1
ES-      l  vi
,-~~~ ~                                     C aI, ,x+$  ;4!,g j,  ,i
____~-4                   -t,,  T: --~        z..1-z5-EY-n  -'    -                       -* m
.;-=.t.-2 I                                          i .
:__~ _::-J                      _      _         ZUZ=K  _ ).y :' rP?:. fl           -t- -+-- 
=~.t-2                     _s          =        -fi=           g       j =  



i.  I  ~~  *n    i.~~*r*  ,.-An.
;III     It #4~~~~~~~~ zpI
*                                                                                                   fl                 ii    I~~~:j:i4  ~~                          .i.I*j  ~~~~I1 A
a.r  2  *1   Al    A$ar-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4dA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ N L      -.¾     4>        P                  i
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~A .                             .                             Ct 002Ow
'I                                            2.         ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~        ..            -   ,~~~~~~~~~A



...1I7.- ~                                                                                            -        7. ~. .. --gGgrDi oS  t Gw
f~~~f
- .                               .-.. .   . . . . .                                                                    1
__LLITL- 
--                                                           I. :   r       _ __.  =,I    g.z     ==    _ *
ib  V2;g= re X X I '  Ii Ii
=                 i-'', ,>-.- -rrz _I.'_ -_4 4
t        * . -  -~ -: --.                       .-4-     I}2
#Jtt-
_s'.I &      .'s              J             9' t      _
~~~~~~4-t--  -.-Z- ...2§-:;-;  | 



-           -::-.Grading Digmu of CO o for Grai S&z  fri Cemombou Shama
*0 -.
-. ,   ,   , o'  Ir7 .  F §.I I             
* ~ ~ . ZI|I-g_  
fr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-r
.3~~~~~H
f                    I
74~~~
I       w=   _t ML -~OA~i   $Q -                     0 t. !. .   
- e ' S j: 2T - ~~1'*4  1--1'|'- -...................... - :--I
U                         ~~~~~~weight Pf=  at   to wrmi
w  _  -  '  .i-- . . ,~~. -, :4_ ... . --- IH



Gradinig Diagram  of Curves for Gri  S     froms Cuosh  Mhod-
-   I                  GIf "                                   G=- I
* ~  ~~ rJtt7                                                        g--   
*~~~:                                                                +         gg_}0> --  -  '--4><<
R -
i                                                                         _ _.__  __~li__.
B           ~~~~~. -    _ j,  .i- :' =-=        = .-..  ..f.,~.                 _____
,, _ ~~~~~~I \        ,,      
* ~         ~               *            -    - _                            
- - *} -I  -I -   -   -   I        -~          -' vA \  fl     .-
L~      ,,, .+tt .   ___   __         ,_*
§--*  - ~                   _r- _ _ _ --
*-**           5      0t    2t Lv  4U'1 *- 4'4 Wj-'Oit   70i ffi   f fi(   *'tt2l
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              ~    ~       ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~ -#& Et .  ,. 1  i i C-   .



*      -   Appedix 6
Appecdix 6   Content Table of the Harmful
un Elemeatin Slt on Sholas
-~~~'   (Co4ncautrati  mgkg)
Name          GGin                           Content
.(U)      au        Pb  z|            Cd      Heg       Cr       As
Guanrian      <0. 063  '18.23     9.58     355.68   0. og     oQ  s    L.3      .2
2IM        .O63-0.125  65.38 -  8.6  .47.63   0.06    0.0072           1.4      3.0
ShoaI         >0.125   678        9.02     30.28   0.07    %         M  L2       0
Fantimn       <0. 063  16438    1708       335.68   0. 08    0.0on     L 8     4.5
sol         0.063-0.125   95 61    UL64    $47.26   0.07    0.00Q      L 4      & 6
>0..12    97.17    12.93    603 76   0.09    0. 00613    L 4     3.8
Yanpexmzi     <0G 063 |48.S       & 8 7S    1S6 5B   O.06     . pO76   L 5        __9
Shoal      O. 06. 325  43. 8B    7.65      103.88   0 06    O. aa71    L 4      &7
10  _  >0. ;   M25L  10.77    U1121    Q      0.0079j    2       3.6
S :;azinen    <0.063  12& 8      10.34     i3M86   0.08    0.W75       2.1      5.3
Shoal      0.0630.32    8& 7S     9.78     335.28    0.07    0.001     1.6      4.7
>0. 8_  . _35 _ _    56     178 23 |0. 07    O.06        1 4   . 4.8
chenzhm      <0 063    78.8       9.23     1378    0.07    0.0068       5.3     4.8
Shoal      0.06-0.;15   77.3      s.3 I8  26 .      0.07      006      50       4.1
>0.125    74.5      7.6Ei     1682   0.06    0.0 OM       4.5     3.7
Czshi        <0. 063    l5 -      4.23      Ma5o 0    0. 0   0.0073     S.8     3.9
Shosl      0.060.125   5.S 3      577      1242 a    0.06  |.07        3S       3.2
I_____[  >0.125 6,         5      5 .12    117:8    0.06  1  0067   1 36        3.6
____  I___                 I     ___ .__ i_1_i                             _



Appedix 6 Monitoring Equipment list for
the Environment Monitoring                   !
Stations of liengyang and Zhuzhou
LIST OF LABORATORY CAPABILITIES
ITEM                       _    HUNAN PROV.                  ANGSHA                HUZHOU   ___  1W=M"vANG
S GC -1 ;) ci ~ ,-jJ EC2, |column . L,   F    IDE C DL) ,                    (FcD, cD, ECD NPO)
iJ~~~~is  ______ ~~~MSD)(for March '95)    (TD'ml'00)Lo;                             C~ 
l ocal (FID, ECD,                    :        ...    
TCD)('mi1d'70's)           ..                ,._ ,.
UV VIS                            local -('g4)            local ('92)             ,-Lo -czel   I T),         44c    (' :  '
local ('84)            local ('86)
local         __ __m      __d_ __70__ __
|   ._Fluoresence                  Hitachi MPF-4 (C84)     No                          ph         .TTTT_ 
Oil                                No                      Fofln (90)                  Lo.J    ('6?)           :eju. ( ?L)
AAS (for metals)                   Hitachi 180-80 (flame    Hitachi 8100            w     CAo0  "; tter-$e     f.cj  J-8o
AAbS with auto- sampler; (computerized, flame    (lf,t AA S ';'
no furnace; about 30    and GFAA, 10+                       fArl,40'.erT   s.J+           Zw'i'$9
metals)                 elements; auto. sampler   A Z          5    -    ato          p/er oe
('.93).
local (retired)
Hg Analyzer                        Rigaku ('86)            local ('84)               1eca ('p3 1               64W e    C'  )
___  *       _____         loal (8?                          _            j          t'?                        ______,,__.__. 
4 lCP (or metals)                  No                      Beckman 20 channel        .        0                   b
simult. ('83 )          - -   _..
Ion Chromatograph                  Dioxnex (conductivity    local (cond. det.)C92)    L.  a       '  3
Idet rgo . DC    .                       _                    _                 .    _.'
. L_    ,,:  _   -' _'  -  '                                                                                tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ITE M                            HUNAN PROV.            CHANGSHA               ZHUZHOU                 IENGYANG
'Standard. Water Quality,
pH                               yes                    yes '/eJ  I
BOo                              yes (1 Incubator)  .   y, yes (3 Incubators)
000          .     .             yes                    yes (14 simult.)       Y..
bacteria                         yes.                   yes
specific Ion electrode          IF, Cl                 F                       F,cA         -
hardnes's                     t yes                     yes                    y       ..
alkalinity                       yes                    yes                                            v S
phenols                          yes                    yes (12 slmult.)
cyanide                          yes                    yes (12 simult.)
colour                           yes                    yes
turbidity                        yes                    yes                    /) .7$
CN                               yes      .             yes           
SS                               yes                    yes
Nl-13 N, N02-N, N03.N            yes                   yes                        S                    fe
--VeA'
others                           Shlrnadzu Sedlmeter RS balances (0.0001 g);   b4c" CQ) ( o.otol )        a
1000; balances (0.0001  microscopes,          .r.
g); several dissecting
and stereo Olympus
_______ _       microscopes                               '      .
air sam,bllng eqp.    i.                                                 . ....                                          .. 
NOx                              10 systems (combined   Monitor.Labs 840 24hr    P   4       /2 S                             ,
with S02)             continuous + portable         .
systems                  .    -. .   .
S02                                                     Monitor Labs 885
continuous + portable
TsP                              7 systems              numeroussystems           S         s                 Y
Floating dust          .         no                     numerous systems            ,'Jo                 n
Nolse I                          3 auto.rpcording for 1 hr.; automatic sampler for 24  -*A tf 0 If. f4&,-p/ev ,17e -
.______________  Jap. brand ('1)    hr. 1.2systems,          A.,4j (c.             . ,Mhr (C&        ) t
. , . , _ . _ _. - - - - - ... j . ,,. M~~



/'
:03 g  l- RiFmm. l-M                                 -              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at.wrvi
0     uaj                                            -                                A.°:a -tbitoMSticn  PA
T . s i >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ise INSBLca:La)9 
W-A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 AA
LoctonR of EnvIrson _                                       . ar
ivllriltorhig Points ot the                                   ,
MHengyang Port                                                ' th
Hangyani port~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



it
II~~~~~~~~~~AI
. ,,/ zi _\ X / 4       F     s           A           +           t     t.t
~~~~~~~7                                    _;  tr:lgatx nt_____0  ,                  )     v
.   -            4k  Atir MtorIng   aticr          m          Un\v    
ale  6 ~~~~ us a.,,                                                '".a I, .                             0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r *-  I  A n
~~~~~~~~~~~~~zm    L    ,
Locatlons of EnvironI metal
Monitoring Points
oftoZhuzhou Poit s



Xintangpu / 5X 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
CA-zh! 3'.   The.Seclia Drawing of Water
Quality Monitoring of tlve
xiangjiang tH4engyang-Zhuzhou)



